ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u1	The President has received a letter on the reinstatement. Hv. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson calls it again. 843, No. 503, for gardening, for bridal work, and for threshing. 813, case No. 484, on development teamwork.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u2	Borist has received a letter from the Ministry of Education and Culture where request is made to provide a written answer for the application of the spell. 867, with the support and special training in elementary schools, from Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir The Year's Daughter. A letter has also been received from the Department of Social Affairs where request is made to provide a written application for this request. 544, about a number of pension workers who receive reduced payments for their former home abroad, from Sara Elísa Þórðardóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u3	Mr. President. We often talk about education regardless of our economic status and location, which is as important today as it has always been. Each person should be allowed to develop his talents with good access to a wide range of education, regardless of age, habitat, and economy. We live in a population society where the school system is urgent to keep up - to - date with children and youths of foreign background so that society can enjoy the abilities of all who want to live here. Change has been made in opportunities for people in scattered areas and those who are temporarily unemployed or working at home to pursue a wide range of telecommunications, including the University of Bifrost and HI, who recently graduated a number of high school students from telecommunications. These possibilities are greatly strengthened throughout the country, which has also shown an increased interest in young people in moving far and wide throughout the country. The government has stressed that the educational system is adapted to the needs of the day and is doing so with a wide variety of measures during the past years. I would like to mention, then, the student's education fund, which has been 5 times that of free income. I'm going to give you the growth of work and technical education. I'm gonna raise $3 billion for college and research. I would like to mention the improved availability of high school students to a vital mental - health service. I'd like to mention equal opportunities for music study. The loans of student loans have been reduced, and eventually there are such things as children's culture fund, which is a new fund for young and young children's books. Humans are power, and everyone should be given the opportunity to make the best of their abilities. It is helpful to individuals and society everywhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u4	President. I'd like to start by commending Iceland's Weather Service for keeping her web going for people who want to be informed about the quake of the day. Though they have not gone unscrupulous, they have made remarkable progress. And then I'd like to mention only the lack of planning. This ideal period has been marked by lack of organization. This has been evident since the first day, and clearly in the Senate work, which provides the most regular program for the week. Although they may be found in 1st. They do not move in the Committee rather than usually, except for the classic P.C.C., which is about the end of Congress. Lack of organization, as has been characterized by the marquee and random action taken by the government, which has come late and badly to those who need it. The lack of organization seen in the government's response to the epidemic, where a short epidemic, hopes that did not last at all, is worse, e.g. in the business, but if it had been tried to plan long term, as the proposals of the management body were in the first pack of measures. The lack of organization leading to the least vaccination has been made with the concentration and risk of transmission. Lack of organization where everything is done at the last minute, which makes you miss e - mails for a Presidency Watch. Lack of organization, which is either a sign of government inadequacy or of deliberate decision. I don't know what's worse. Finally, I apologize for missing an e - mail, which will take place at the last moment in the week and in the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u5	Mr. President. Let me do something better. Yesterday we received reports that the Department of Transport and the State Department of Transport was interested in supporting the fly bus management and its voyages between Keflavík Airport and capital area. I would like to move the discussion right away from those tire marks. This is not to say that transport between the airport and the capital area is totally depressed, although certain private financial ministers cannot see how to stay on the plane. Route 55 still walks the road between the BSI and the Cheflaví airport a day, even stopping behind the Capitol, on Vonard Street. The government would be much closer to supporting them in public service, allowing, for example. The 55 - year - old route was to drive up to the airport and increase the number of trips, rather than put an even greater number of millions in a private company. Investment in the Bus also goes beyond financial support to the airport that it promotes public transport for the citizens of Smokeytown, who often attend work or school in the capital area. This must have to be seriously examined. The restoration of the economy and society after the Covid pandemic must be based on green and righteous solutions. Transporting at Keflavour Airport is far from the largest part of the building project ahead, but it is a test of whether the government is serious when it proclaims green structure. Will it be a way to subsidize small - price buses or to strengthen public transportation that will benefit everyone?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u6	Mr. President. December 14th. answered the highest. During an unsubstantiated question period, my prime minister said that the case of the unemployed at the Department of Social Affairs was intended to cover the stage and see what would come best of a job. It was December 14, and today it is February 24th, with no news of government action. But there is reports that unemployment is increasing and that there is a need to cope with people who have reached out for the unemployment period and who need to seek financial assistance in rural society and for food relief. The entire country had a total lack of employment of 12.8% in January. In Southnes the number had reached 26%. Unemployment among women in the Southnes is 29.1% and 24% among men. This is a very serious situation. People are so tired of waiting for government help. It seems that it is the government's will that the national part carry the heavy load in the pandemic. In the United States, we have repeatedly proposed solutions, including the following: for a longer period of unemployment, but it has been as hard as any of the operating systems. Everyone knows that long - term inefficiency has poor social and economic impact and also affects people's health. That's what comes with the pressures on the health care unit. Southnes health care center has been very expensive for a long time. It is a health - care center designed to care for some 28,000 people; 8% of the people at one clinic. Why is it the highest? Health and workforce ministers don't have the eyes on the Southnes and indicate specific actions that bear on the subject? The government and the government have to lie down with local and Southern government officials. Everyone must row in the same direction to minimize the damage.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u7	A respectable president. For the legal system, it has to say that it has both a job itself and that its appearance shows that it is. Under this hat, the courts, the prosecution, and the police fall. The independent nature of these institutions really is their oxygen. Hence, it must always be clear that they will work so that their true independence can never be questioned. I'm not going to stand here and say anything about why the Minister of Justice chose to call the Chief of Justice twice on Christmas Eve, because I don't know beyond the explanation that a minister himself has made. However, her own explanation suggests that at least the subject could have placed a police officer in an uncomfortable position, her own phone call to the chief of police. Did it really not occur that the minister's contact and the direct phone calls to the chief of police were abnormal at this point, to the police chief who was there in an initial study of alleged offenses on the contract laws of this minister's team and chairman? The requirement is not merely that governments express themselves, but that they are careful not to touch them completely but that they never indicate anything else. I feel that a minister's phone call to the chief at this point was sadly lost to raise questions on the understanding of this threshold. I have complete confidence in the police on this matter as different from their conduct and the actions of the minister of that day, however, I feel a serious lack of judgment and insist that the minister responds for the reason she contacted the chief of police that day and for what she was looking for.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u8	The president's request is that there's something wrong with the time measurement, so hope that it works out.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u9	Mr. President. I'm going to do another attempt to bring to the attention of the United States of America that it is not enough to say that the innovation environment is good in Iceland to make it. There are a number of obstacles to everyone who wants to run a business in Iceland. These include heavy regulations, including regulations. published in a fine report on the competitiveness of Iceland from OECD. But there is also a small environment of support. Iceland's New Creation Centre is being hollowed out and unclear exactly how something will replace it. We are not all participants in the international cooperation that we are offering to be part of in order to have as much opportunity as possible for our small and medium-sized enterprise, to name something. That is exactly what the European U.S.A. has agreed on to suggest that we are to join in, yet we have not yet become part of it by all these years. In addition, the community itself is not very involved in supporting the development of projects. Great resources and opportunities are often wasted, sometimes for the sake of one reason that the leaders of the concept are not the right sort. There are so many examples of this. One example of a resource we're wasting is hot water, a lot of hot water flows from towns all over the country and straight into the sea, even 75 litres per second, and in a British hole runs 30°C hot water into the sea without it being new. There's a resource we're wasting. If we want to be the knowledge and innovation society that we always want to be then we have to go systematically into removing all unnecessary obstacles and building a realistic support network for our companies and for all who have good ideas.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u10	A respectable president. Last week the press published reports of the Gallup's trust scan. The study actually had less discussions than material, but perhaps especially the part of the study that was involved in the health - care system. That is exactly what the medical profession received. 79% of the population claim to trust the health system. This figure has increased from 57% last year. Of course, policy issues have been relevant there and the health policy we agreed on here, with little doubt as to whether the government's decision to rely on science and the facts in the fight of the ongoing epidemic, which was natural. But I believe that the medical staff has this trust, the man - made man who goes there, and has shown us what he can do in difficult times. Of course, the strength of health care has been important in this regard. The appearance of the walkways for Covid patients has been important and more. Trusting in the health system is not necessarily a matter of fact, but it is of enormous importance to us as a community. Health services are human rights, and trust in them is part of society's glue. There is reason to rejoice with the good people who have the ministry. It'll get a big plus in the ledger.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u11	V.E.G. President. This morning you introduced the highest. Secretary of State and Development, Guðður Þór Þórðarson, and why. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson report and suggestions of a fiber optic group and the release of fiber optics to the Clinic Fund of the Atlantic Community. The report shows us even. to see how important it is for us Icelanders to take seriously the position that exists today in the context of a communications and Internet security problem that is once again essential for us to use the fourth industrial revolution in which the 5G cell phone system plays a key role. If the 5G wintry is to be achieved in this country, it is clear that this will only happen if a powerful fiber optic system is present. By permission of the president, I quote the report that says: There will be a nervous system of 5G-farnets, which will form a complex 5-G systems up-to-date with no potent fibre optics. They will, in effect, form the base of the new generation of net. As a result, the discussion of the security of the key structures, such as telecommunications, becomes louder and louder among countries and international institutions. International discussions on the implementation of 5G systems are a sign of this and provide these issues with an increasingly important place within and into member countries of the Atlantic Community, the European Union and the Northern states. Over the past few years, I have given much importance in my political activities to discuss national security issues, national security issues, such as the building of the electronic transportation system, the road system, the airport systems, the importance of the reserves, the importance of the telecommunication systems of the country, and the Internet security issues that in recent years have become the most major issues of our time, especially internationally. As noted in the report, the fifth support of the Atlantic Community on Internet security is about the security of the key infrastructure, such as communication systems. Finally, I want to congratulate the group of Jehovah's Witnesses on doing a well - done job.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u12	A respectable president. You're no. 1,200, no 1,300, no 1,500, waiting. How many children with mental health problems are waiting for today? Prior to the New Year's Eve, 1,193 children all over the country waited for diagnosis or treatment of mental or psychological problems. We keep children with mental disorders waiting, not just for months, but for years. As we know, mental illness is a major cause of disability and is therefore not to be treated immediately in children and adolescents. But what happens? They even communicate with an answering machine, which sometimes gives misleading possibilities. For those who are currently on the waiting list for action in Iceland, the machine may soon be put on an answering machine. A mechanical voice answers: If you have a Covid-19, press button 1. You're in first place. If you are a child on a waiting list, press button 2, you are not in first place. If you are waiting for a vital operation, press button 3 and you will be told where you are on a 200-man waiting list. If you are on a waiting list to access another waiting list, press button 4 and wait until your turn. The machine will continue to say: If you want time for physical therapy or time with speech pathologists, there is a long waiting list there and because of the rules of law, contact me in two years. Rather than receiving help, people from Heródes to Pilate are sent in vain. If there is a steady increase in the number of people who are sick and who cannot do so, the cost to the future will be high for the children and teenagers, the sick people, the older citizens, the families, and the community. There is virtually no support or resources available for the amazingly large number of parents who grow up with mental illness and violence. It has been shown that mental and physical abuse of children has increased in the Covid-19 epidemic, which requires good and rapid health care for children. A respectable president. As the song Waits: A day passes and a sense of hopelessness is gray, how long will life pass when you have to sit and wait?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u13	Mr. President. I'd like to call attention to a business report from the Morning Press, in ml.is, February 19. It tells of a Supreme Court in Britain where Uber's cab service was lost, and the conviction is that drivers who drive by cab service are the company's employees and thus have the right to the minimum, holiday, and coffee breaks. This is the end of a five - year struggle for justice in this case and shows in the article that in itself this market can be the end of the Uber service in the United Kingdom, i.e. If Uber is no longer able to keep people like slaves and avoid paying all the pay - related fees and overtime, and what this is called, the basis of Uber cab service in the UK smiled. This is what I'm saying, Mr. President, because in this chamber, we've heard that it's the wrong system that we're filming in Iceland that we're supposed to fuck people and make slaves and then pay to some fat Uber guy in the foreign country who sits there on a pool bank. I must protest, Mr. President. This is a natural return to such mines and other slavery that existed in Europe and beyond 200 to 300 years ago. However, it is also surprising that right now the highest is in existence. The secretary of transportation will present a bill, which is more fortunate to the committee, and hopefully as far as possible, which will enable them to operate like this in Iceland and clear out the people who have everything clean, all their security, and pay their taxes. Now it's time to go off like that loose in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u14	A respectable president. Waiting and waiting, waiting to get help, being on a waiting list to wait for a waiting list. I'm going to tell you something that's going to be closer to me, just very close to what we're going to do here. One nice senator, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, earlier said that our health system had got here a big plus in the ledger, it was as if he experienced it. But I just can't see it at all. This matter is very hard for me to imagine now how long I'll be able to have my sink, my thin, hot man with me. Will he survive the wait when his average heart rate has been 34◯36 beats a minute for perhaps a year and a half? He has walked between Heródes and Pílatus, and now he has some answers. But it turns out: You have one operation a day, as required, and two years waiting. This is because the procedure is one of those chosen to operate in Covid in the maintenance procedures of the health care system. It's a joke that exactly that operation really stabs us right in the back. So even if you ask: " Won't these health - care measures take place on patients themselves? Then the answer is: No, no, they won't, it's not like that. - But the patients are self-inflicted. I ask myself here today: Will my husband survive to have to wait and wait for his cure to suffer?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u15	V.E.G. President. The work here at the Council is doing just fine. The schedule is set to the highest. The president is doing well; politics, senator's affairs, inquiry, reports, and special discussions are being arranged. The general talk of vaccinations here and in other parts of the world is a complete key factor in the fight of the virus. It's dawning, the arrangements are made within the country. This results in normal living, social life, schools, employment, and economics. The nation has united in its mission and gained solidarity in the use of disease prevention, and we have been responding to economic consequences by many measures appearing in five sheep's budgets, tapeworms, specials, financials. There has been an increase in financial regulations and space for the debt of the state's funds. No hesitation. Yet, there are still unemployment, income loss, and loss of resources in many homes, a lot of land parts, and employment. We have a lot of money that everyone has the energy to take part in the fight ahead. A respectable president. The danger is the next three to four months, and the election will have an effect here, that we will fall into the pit of waiting. There is a known reaction in the final minute of football. The team's been fighting for over 85 minutes. The game lasts 90 minutes plus. The nation is at 1:0, the people are back, they start to wait, they start to watch the judge and the clock. Somebody's calling attention. Very well and worthy. But it has to be right for things; not for reelection, not for elections, not for rising suns, not even for the government covenant that we have met almost in one piece, but for the job life, for the homes, for the business, for the summer jobs for the school people, for the work of those who are unemployed, that everyone will be ready to accept tourists when they arrive. It is about increasing power and extending resources that have worked, not the sum of the large debt. A respectable president. We need to finish the game for our homes, for our companies, and for the Icelandic economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u16	V.E.G. President. The analysis of cervical samples has been performed across the advice of experts across the country. The analysis of these samples is best paid in this country for the knowledge we have here, and we want to live on it. All health - care ministers for increased quality and shorter channels fail, and the chairman of the Icelandic research team reported in the news that there was a greater likelihood that something would go wrong when the vision was sent abroad. It is absurd to claim that we are too few. So, then, are we not too few to live up to innovation, evolution, and so on? Not only has there been a delay in the health of women, but there is also a need for expert work in Iceland. Our country, Iceland, has experts on the front line to form biologists. As far as I can see, most of those listed on the social networking website are women. So it is not enough that a health minister performs this kind of act against women's health. Rather, it violates the women's profession, which has great knowledge. Instead of exploiting all the expertise we possess in this country, we will be on other countries, in this case Denmark.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u17	A respectable president. Everything depends, but unfortunately, not all changes will reach their goal. Now, one of these changes is the presence and location of veterinary surgeons. The work of veterinary surgeons is varied and the working conditions vary. In the southern regions of the East, in particular, Breiðdal, Berryfrund, and Aluminium, the work of a veterinarian, a so - called service veterinarian, has been acting independently, but the government pays behind shift pay. Now, however, a change has been made during recent years. The veterinarian who has worked in this particular area leaves behind because of his age after 44 years of work and will be transferred to Egil position. So far, two veterinarians have served behind shifts in the territory, but now there is one rear shift. The assignment is from Backwagond to Deepavogs. The major part of the year is the shortest route between these sites 314 miles and over many mountain roads to travel. We are then added to the vast variety of urduums. One veterinarian should handle this area 128 hours a week. When faced with a decision to change the system in the East, it was a requirement for a minister and a condition for change that would not result in an increase in cost. The only area where there will be a decline in service to the changes made in the East. A respectable president. It is important to find solutions to these matters. We make it a requirement to make a model for the welfare of animals, but then we do not offer the services that farmers need for their animals. Let us not just look at the document on the computer that tells us that we can save a few million, look at geographic facts that tell us that farming is practiced far and wide around the country, and provide the required services, a service that can be performed in order to be enjoyed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u18	Mr. President. Since the start of the 2007 State Marshal's Analysis Department, the department has regularly assessed the scope of organized crime in the country. In recent years, reports have been available to the public. The last two reports are from 2017 and the latest from 2019. It warns of an increasing risk of organized crime groups in this country, and in the 2019 report, the risk was deemed extremely high, which is the highest risk. Evolution should not be surprising. The police have long warned about it. Organized criminal activity, according to the 2019 department report, remains in fractures such as distribution, manufacture and import of drugs, resulting in multiple negative effects on the community, e.g. Violence, harassment, and abuse by various means The organized criminal activity is international in nature and extends across borders. The report states that this is also the case in Iceland. Police research reveals the organized vandalism of foreign criminals and groups of public services in Iceland, and data suggests that the fragmentation is found in the public systems. It adds that the number and size, the size and strength of organized crime groups in Iceland are increasing. So says the following: The schools maintain organized crime in Iceland, which is at the same time vast and profitable. Finally, it is apparent that international society is a major threat to organized crime groups. The middle class has pointed to this development for many years, and I made a special discussion about the subject at the World Council in the early 2018. Mr. President. The police need to expand their research and to strengthen research and support under border surveillance. We are at several milestones in this serious matter. So I think it's necessary to pay attention to police tip and listen to the police.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u19	A respectable president. I got a letter earlier this week, such as perhaps many members of Congress, which is an open letter for the management of Exploitation Fund. The letter is written by Sigurður Halldórsson, executive director of Pure North Recycling, who I believe is the only company in Iceland, unfortunately, the only company that recycles plastic, mainly rollback plastic. In this letter, the company complains of late recovery for their information about changing the transport equation rate so that they can further contribute to the recycling of the country. It is suggested in the letter that none of the agricultural devices that have been exported from Iceland during the past few years have been recycled in Europe but will eventually pass through the Netherlands server and return to Malaysia after China's markets have closed down. I am deeply sorry that our system is not better equipped to make sure that we have a real recycling system that works. You see, a respectable president, there's something in our garbage. We have to stop green washing and exporting waste when there is no trace of it. We should support the Icelandic circuit economy. We need to find environmental and practical solutions to recycle and recycle our waste. These solutions do not exist on the desks of government officials. They exist in the commercial world, with the pioneers of this country, and the role of the government is to ensure that the environment and the right incentives are here for a powerful recycling industry.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u20	Mr. President. Last week, the General agreed to agree with one voice the changes in criminal law on sexual privacy and is intended to stem the rise in the use of digital sexual violence. In 2015 a Björt Ólafsdóttir, who was then a senator, presented a bill similar to this. The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, senator of Pirata, has led a transverse movement group and have provided prime metastases in 2017 and 2018 to cope with digital sexual abuse. Despite the fact that none of these cases have been fulfilled, they certainly pushed governments, who finally made changes that have become legal today. In an interview with the Morning newspaper, the vice district attorney Kolb Kolbrún says to the daughter of Benediktsdóttur, by permission of the president: This is positive because for the first time, we have a law that takes special action, that is, the distribution and release of sexual substances without the approval of the individual. I was especially happy that during the treatment of the matter at the council committee, a clear agreement was adopted. This was precisely by reference to such a rule now found in the rape laws of a general penal law, which was adopted in 2018 when my Senate bill was approved. But this clearly shows that the initiative of the individual senators is important, based on their political work, that it is legally reformed, even if it takes longer than I do. These are important changes, and there is evidence that politicians can act when they want to.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u21	A respectable president. A number of the world's population and rural society have enjoyed the support of Kingdom Halls for cleaning goods. This is done in spite of extremely poor employment conditions in many parts of the country, and the group who care for these jobs may be more vulnerable and less prepared for loss of employment at this time than any other group in the community. A respectable president. If tens of thousands of people are out of work because of the Korean epidemic and have no jobs, it is not a lot of growth or humanity on the part of the states and rural society. The National Institute of Health has laid down staff since May 1. Then the company takes the sun ehf. at the cleaning and good staff will be sitting on the streets of unemployment. Interestingly, the company's offer is 69.9 billion. K. This year when the Agency's cost was 138 million in 2019 and 147 million in 2020. I'm wondering how to reach this cost at 50% for a tender invitation, and what is the salary of the contractor's staff if the National Institute of Health can save 50% of the costs at the end of the Agency's lowest paid staff? Even quality inputs and equipment call for workers. This isn't the only thing that worries me with today's professional state of the country. Southnes have 25% unemployment, thousands of unemployed. In spite of this, instead of tempting employees on unemployment records in the Southnes, local fishing work has recently brought in 40 Polish workers. Is it possible that this is because the company can provide mobile workers with housing and shelter that is not needed for employees living on Southnes? A respectable president. I am reviewing how companies and institutions are acting with resignations against unemployed people with narrow personal interests or economic hopes in a time of unemployment and a crown virus epidemic.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u22	Mr. President. How's Iceland today? Let's go over four points. It takes the average manager of the Stock Hall nearly one and a half days to earn a month's income, the older citizen, or the unemployed. More than a day's wage for the manager is enough for the rest of the month. Number two: The largest 10% of Icelanders have more pure possessions than the rest of the population of 90%. Number three: The fiscal tax, which is the preferred tax, is the lowest in Iceland of all the North countries. And number four: The cost of hunting, which the great cities prefer, decreased by less than 60% in three years. At the same time, as many as 35,000 Icelanders live in poverty under the Habitat. Of these, 10,000 are children, Mr. President. At the same time, there have never been so many people who have had to go to Iceland for food support. They are people who even need medical help and cannot provide their children with the benefits their peers see themselves. They are people who live in bad, even dangerous houses. Mr. President. So there are people here who have everything, and there are people who have nothing. Should we not be together to change this?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u23	Mr. President. I sent a last session of inquiry to all the Ministry and requested information on how they were doing in the implementation of a community plan. It has to be said that the answers were disappointing, since the answers to most people pointed out that work was just beginning and that it could not be answered. Others referred to institutions and the places where there is a fine price, but the question was not answered. Of the clear responders, the Department of Transport was the most ambitious of all, who believed that 40% of the ministry's work was beyond its walls. Afterward, the Ministry of Education came with 15%. These answers are of particular interest in the context of the recruitment process's response to the Covid-19 pandemic. I sent a new inquiry to the Ministry and requested information on the level of non-employment work. The answers tell us that the hired staff were working at home for more and less during the past year. The lowest rate was 60% in the fishing road and agricultural department but 100%. But every agent at the State Department and Department of Environmental and Resources won something or quite a bit of telecommunications last year. It appears, therefore, that it was a small matter last year, Mr. President, to be with employees who were unable to work in the Ministry Building themselves. So, Mr. President, it is clear that Covid-19 has shown that in today's community, there are very few jobs from anywhere in the country and is indeed an opportunity to rethink our founder. No longer is there a need for all institutions to be located in the central city, and it is not necessary for all employees of each organisation to be located there either. If it's a real thing for the government, Mr. President, to increase the population level in the country then we must take greater steps in that direction. We can do so well, as the previous year's experience shows.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u24	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee for the head of the story, please. paritaprevir The Brynjar of the son of Níelsson, which is incorruption; The committee arranged for visitors, as per local tradition, to appear in the Commission opinion, as well as a two-part report. The bill suggests that a new law on the financial enterprise is added that direct and indirect positions of key business banks and savings in financial gains, with the exception of bonds outside a book, will be limited to the sum of the bank's personal savings or savings funds because of the position, not to exceed 15% of the bank's personal capital. The bill is aimed at implementing a proposal in a White Paper on a vision for financial support for the cut-off line of protection between business and investment banking. As mentioned in the Committee, most Western countries have established certain barriers between business banking and investment operations within the same institution after the financial crisis. With the approved bill, high - risk investment banks would be limited without being overcompensated to the function. The fact that positions are going beyond 15% of the private capital clearly inhibits the growth of high - risk investment banking activities in a systematicly important bank without disrupting their current activities and granting them considerable distances. International comparison is very small for Icelandic banks, so it is important that they can function as effectively as possible. Complained or restricted risk minimisation measures must be taken into account so that the size and service supply of a systematic business bank or the potential for higher risk distribution with diverse revenues is not exceeded. At the end of the years, it is worth pointing to the fact that radical changes in the financial defenses of the Icelandic system have been triggered by the introduction of new laws and regulations and increased financial monitoring of the Bank of Iceland. All of this has been determined by the ability of Icelandic loan institutions to cope with tragedy rates to become relatively greater or better than most of the countries we compare with. According to this, the majority suggest that the bill be passed on. Under the heading, write why. Óli Kárason, the son of Káll, Bristur the Brynjar of Níelsson, the ruler of the matter, Bruthi, the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, and Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, and Ingi the son of Pétursson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u25	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'd like to ask you what. A senator cannot agree with me that as high as 15% of personal resources will not change anything in the Icelandic banking system as it is today, especially if we are looking at the rules of banking and the ratio of the three big banks is 4.35% at the end of 2018; this is shown in the report. So it is very far in this roof, so nothing needs to be changed. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he agrees with me on that. I'd like to ask who, too. A senator as to the fact that this bill is proposed to appease those members of the board who have spoken about it and put forth both the bills and the Senate instruments that go far beyond this bill and go all the way in order to separate investment banks from business banks. So that's two things, Mr. President, whether or not. A senator does not agree that the bill will not change anything and that it is put on the side of the government for peace. Councilmen and the highest. Ministers of the left green and advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u26	Mr. President. I am familiar with the attitudes as well as those of others. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir has upstairs. It has not been secretive, and it has gone straight to work in that regard. I think she also knows that I have had certain doubts that the above points should be placed on her head, i.e. Fifteen percent roof. This is because we are here creating a completely special set of rules for the three banks that agree to be considered systematicly important. Such specialized rules could lead to, and people have to figure it out, to reduce foreign interest in investing in Icelandic financial companies. On occasion, I have felt that there is a considerable will for many members of the council to ensure that foreign banks, e.g. takes a position and even buys into an Icelandic bank. Of course, special rules in this regard will have some confounding effect. Whether to prevent the investment will become apparent. However, that is exactly the case. A senator considering the situation now, that the banks are all, I think, under 5%, this requirement will not affect their operations or activities as it is today. But it will certainly limit them when it comes to taking a risky position in future financial pursuits, e.g. it may be tested when banks have the ability to take full force which is calculated in this ratio. Let's wait and see.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u27	Mr. President. During this bill, those who support it have meant that this roof is put in order to reduce the risk of making the bank owners before selling the shares of the state of the Union. I want to ask you why. Senator: If that's the point, why don't the management parties put in order to change the law in order to prevent the direct investment of business banks, such as we buy stocks in other companies, if the will is really to reduce the risk of bank application before selling the State of the Union? I'm asking why. A senator whether he feels that the question was answered clearly and whether there was a possible conflict within the board of directors about landings.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u28	Mr. President. I don't know if I'm making you happy. A senator or a dismayed her when I state that there has been no conflict, knowingly, in the government, or in the administrations of this case, not one of them, but based on a work that has been going on since 2017, as shown in a paper with the bill. There I am witnessing a report by a group of workers who produced 2018, which is proposed to this decomposition. It's a report of 103/4.15% which I think is going to be making a suggestion for the following items. Then there is the big report, the White Book on a Future View. The bill is based on the suggestions given by the experts who worked there very well. They know why. A senator was well represented by these groups who appeared before the committee. I would like to emphasize that when we are making these rules that are limited, we also have to admit that there may be other consequences, such as reducing the size of the business banks, that their service becomes more expensive, and their supply of services will be less extensive. It is the negative consequences of such rules. Then there's this Special Rule that we're suggesting, and I agree to do - even though I have doubts about it, I understand why this is being done. I think it's wise in the present situation, but people must also admit that this sort of expert rule may reduce the interest of foreign investors when it comes to making a decision to invest in an Icelandic financial system that I thought was desirable for us Icelanders. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u29	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, president of the Economic and Business Committee, for the history of history. He took a short, pointed point over the bill and the committee's opinion of the majority of the committee. This idea, of full separation between business banking and investment banking, has come about because this integration can be risky for society. Systemic risks can also be called risks. Clearly, an increased risk calls for extra money. Much of that is about it. There's a way to go. It's simple. We can call it a proportion-way, and the committee proposes an unchanged ratio of 15%. I'd like to try to get some sleep. A senator to propagate the development of the ratio. Let me first refer to a report on page 18. 5 Showing that the percentage of systematicly important business banks of the three banks was 4.35% and had fallen from the 4.85% previous years. Newer data on the proportion are not available and are not expected to have increased significantly. Like what? A senator may have covered a little more accurately, in response to what he was doing. Harðardóttir That's why we've been doing a little bit of this. Despite our will, we have not recovered any solution until now, which I believe is very important and supportive. But do the committee have any ideas on how this ratio can evolve from this 5% to 15%?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u30	Madam President I don't know if it was William Þór Þórsson or economist Willum Þór Þórsson who was asking here. My short answer is that I don't realize, I'm not in that position, and I'm not going to be a prophet about how Icelandic banks will develop. I think that when we look five or ten years ahead, I don't talk about any further into the future, if financial activity, I don't talk about banking, in any way other than today, and it's going to be cross-border. That's going to be our big challenge. Our ideas on compromise, about bank functions - there will certainly be some revolution in that subject. We just see what's happened here in Iceland. The population is shrinking. I'll think about it. A senator experiences what I do, I have stopped going to a branch office. I'm only in Internet banks, doing the necessary business there. I'm not gonna say anything about it. I'm pointing out the roof's bed, that's right, that's what it is. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir points out. There is room for growth in investment banks, and I assure you that by doing so, the practicalness of the Icelandic banking system will increase rather than increase. It must also be noted that if they plan to restrict their investment share, they will have negative consequences for the overall work of the stock market, not just the stock market. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u31	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I came up here to answer because I think it's important for the discussion to prove it. That's really what we've been dealing with, the lawgiver, at least as I read best reports, white book and a very good report from a financial and economic group, where there's a good way of doing things. It is clear in the context of how small banks in Iceland are, although systematicly important, and may be risky if we don't have the rule as we know it. It is important that, as soon as we place such limited legislation, we do not do so in a way that would harm their present activities and their role in the market. Their potential to work may be affected. A senator went over, took full advantage of his property, and performed useful services, such as business shifts. It is important that the financial market is as active as ever. That is why I consider it a wise way and almost impossible in the context of these small markets and the role of banks. Here is a risk of grafting or raw products, and it is a little special in the legal field to see the definition ▪ Convergence because it belonged to him himself - something was discussed in the Committee that would prevent other fermentations in this respect?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u32	Madam President. I think I dare say it wasn't, so I'll answer him. A senator straight. It was not much to review whether it was possible that there were some other financial evasions that should fall on this point. Of course, if this bill becomes a law, you must wonder, when you start to try it, and you start working on it. Besides what I took steps earlier, we are likely to be at a crusade or a breakthrough when it comes to international financial activity. As individuals and owners of a company in Iceland, there will be a much more independent border. The largest companies in Iceland may not depend on Icelandic banking systems because they can consult other banks, but the small and mediumsized enterprises are. But it's all going to change, and I think our bank ideas will be overthrown in a relatively few years. I'm also going to point out and deny that when a person decides to make such decisions, limits, and limits, to the function of a bank as suggested here, he must also recognize the consequences other than the ones I've mentioned before, i.e. that part of the traditional bank activity will move on, shift to what we have called shadow banking, which is not as highly monitored as normal or traditional bank functions. As a result, if the financial system is too far, this may lead to a conclusion that there is actually more systematic risk in the financial system than we ever realize because it is hidden.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u33	Madam President. I would like to recommend the Committee's 1st, less part of the Economic and Business Committee on the case as discussed here, but the smaller section requires the one listed here. Following the 2008 collapse of the bank, financial companies have been reimbursed worldwide. Rules have been revised, and attempts have been made to help deal with excessive risks. In particular, there have been systematicly important financial companies. Iceland is no exception, but the development in this country has been largely determined by changes in legislation within the European Union. Over the years significant work has been put on account of the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs to review Icelandic legislation and the development of Icelandic financial markets, including on business banks and investment banks. The groups and committees involved in this work agree that it is the right to limit the co-work of this activity to reduce the overall risk of the internal and financial systems. The result of this work is that it is reasonable to assume that direct and indirect status of a systematic key bank will be limited so that there will not be an actual need for it to exceed 101⁄215% of their private resources, as shown in the report with the bill. The first part of memory is to bear in mind that the Icelandic financial system is small in international comparison, and the Icelandic economy is relatively unique. Here on the land, there's quite a cross-requisition. This results in a higher risk of combined financial breakdown in case of action. The first smaller section thinks that if there is a limit on the direct or indirect status of a systematic important business bank and savings, as the bill expects, it is appropriate to aim at the lower limit set for the control of the bill. The limit will be applied to 10%, but not 15%, as expected in the bill. Thus, the levels are used as a precautionary step, which, however, provides substantial scope for business banks and savings, relative to the current rate of promotion, or less than 5% according to the latest data, as shown in the report. The first memory section also believes that it is appropriate to withdraw this proportion to review on the basis of some experience in this limitation. It will be possible to determine whether or not to increase this level and whether it provides the desired protection against risk taking, or if other measures need to be taken. If so, it is possible that such limitations are unnecessary and that changes in the security of the Icelandic financial system will be made through the implementation of new laws and regulations. It is suggested that such a review be performed within four years of validation. In accordance with this, two forms of variation are provided in the Committee: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. It's a 1st case instead of a ◯15%. 1.mg. 1st par. Come on, 10%. 2. After 1st. Let a new article come up, saying, "By the law a new law is added for a time, saying, The law of 28. a Review by January 1 Now, basically, I've been over the commission, but I'd like to add that, of course, this case has something to do with a proposed sale at a bank in Iceland. The decision is to take, at the discretion of the secretary of finance, and, at the request of the Bank Office, to sell shares in Iceland Bank. It's working out of the sellout of the bank. Of course, this has something to do with it. In this event, a portion of the four or some other bank owned by the State is being sold. I believe that these steps are under way for careful action. In fact, we in Reunion believe that the arrangements for sales should have been limited and made its comments on both the economic and financial sector and the financial legal committees. One of the conditions we pointed out to be needed was that a law on what is called an investment banking barrier had been approved. Now we're discussing it, and we still want to be in the same territory and gently step to the ground because our experience in these materials, of the sale of banks, has not been as good as we would have hoped. That is why we believe in the restoration that it is extremely important that much effort be made and a careful return to the earth. But that does not change our viewpoint that the state is not supposed to run a financial enterprise.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u34	Madam President. I recommend to the Committee to conduct a hearing with a modification form from a secondary part of the Economic and Business Committee, which is the one currently standing and representing the Union on the Economic and Business Committee. According to a bill report, it aims to put a line of defense between business banking and investment banking, including the U.S.A. with the goal of protecting depositors. Indeed, the fact that such an arrangement is irrelevant is that it is limited. Limitations of direct and indirect position so that the combined bank's privacy needs for the execution of the bank will not exceed 15% of the private capital are of no relevance. A smaller section of it feels that it is apparent that it is a sign - of - fact trend to appease the officials who have spoken for the separation of business banking from investment banking. So high a roof will not make any difference, as shown in a paper with the bill, the status rate of the large banks was 3 4.35% at the end of 2019. Madam President. The question has not been answered why the management parties do not suggest legal adjustments in preventing the direct investment of business banks, such as the purchase of stocks in other companies, if it really exists to reduce the risk of making banks before selling the stock of the state. The fact that the state holds so much of the banking system that it actually shows gives us certain opportunities for changes in the banking system. The question must be answered about how banking systems guarantee good and reliable services to people and businesses. It requires diversity, competition, intensive surveillance, consumer protection and a safe and inexpensive domestic resources. Along with rapid technological development and the need for green investments, there is an obvious need for changes in the financial environment. It is important to change systems to cause the risk of investment banking to become a concern for owners of investment banks, not the government. Here is an important lesson for the bank collapse. Having three large banks, all of which are systematicly important, is limited to market competition and contributes to a level of competition regardless of whether one or two banks are owned by a private person. To create variety and competition between banks, the overall structure of the system needs to be considered and adjusted. Only 12 years have come from the collapse of private banks in Iceland, with extremely negative economic consequences. Despite Generalis's approval of such a study, a personal development study has not been conducted. It is necessary to ensure public access to the necessary banking services and that the cheapest possible payment media is available to all. The banks provide the necessary services that concern all of us. They work as employees, increase their savings, and provide loans for housing or other projects related to the management of households and businesses. As today's situation is concomitantly practiced investments, sometimes very risky, funded by public savings. Banks should withdraw from such activities. It can provide space for competition in areas where savings of the public are not being used, which are individually guaranteed to finance risky investments. Only the separation of business banking, which is partly funded by loans and investment banking activities that are not financed by depositors, can prevent the public from taking the risk of reckless financial investments. Some, including ministers of the present government, have reasoned with them that running banks is risky to the State. But, in reality, selling property into banks does not free the state from the risks of banks that store their local clients. The government will either come systematically to the rescue of important banks, so that their problems will not be solved in any other way. Ragnar Önundarson, former bank manager, has repeatedly pointed out the need for separation of investment banking from business banking, to obtain priorities, but not to finance gambling banking. He says even. On their Facebook page on this thing: A U.S. Reconnaissance Bank must not be allowed to keep the Media Bank in the back yard, a catapulter for surprises, no more than a casino. The risks and costs of investments that go to the fore are to be exclusive to those who engage in risky business activities. Not in the public. That is why investment banking has to be understood from business banks, and it can easily be done when the State is the largest owner of the banking system. Business banking is a public banking service for individuals and companies. This includes the hosting of deposit and loans, payment services and finance. Banking is not the same as any other type of law. Banks are not like traditional stocks on markets. They are more like service, self-proved service to the public. These include the necessary services that cannot be stopped without causing economic damage, such as subsidies. The business of the bank must be separated from the nuclear industry. The same is true of dealings with a hedge fund and a specialized fund. The cost of such a change would, in any case, be much less than the damage caused by the investment banking operation of organized financial institutions. A smaller portion thus contributes to a change in proposal that helps to separate investment banking from business banking. It is suggested that clients, savings and credit companies only be allowed to do business with their own accounts of money markets, foreign currency, forward contracts, and exchange rights, random letters, interest bonds, and stocks in a special company. The change is not reducing the importance of financial services in Iceland. On the contrary, change will contribute to an increase in competition and a simple rule - making work for investment banking. Separation limits the growth of banks and the risk of making banks too big to fall. The proposals of this material have previously been made in the core and controversies of the council. At the 130th legislator of the bill, Ögmundur Jónasson and coauthor J. Sigfússon, now the highest. The President of the Generals. Later, Ögmundur Jónasson, along with Jón Bjarnason, gave the story. All of them were members of the Left Motion, VG, green foreboding. Álfheiður Ingadóttir, former Congressman VG, was the first member of the Parliament's resolution to separate at the 144th legislature. Artists were members of the United States and Pirata. Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, now the highest. Prime Minister, who was then a member of the VG Congregational Assembly, gave the same legal proposal for the 146th legislature. Artists were members of the United Nations, the forward party, and the Pirata. Clearly, the separation has had good support in the General Assembly, at least for the present two administrations and two political groups. Other smaller items contribute to the adjustment proposed by the Committee's opinion and are involved in separating investment banking and business banking. Madam President. We're in Iceland, we're dealing with a low-level financial environment. We have three major systematicized banks that work both business and investment banking. One of the banks is private, and I don't think anyone is aware that the bank's activities are different from those of the two members of the state. It wouldn't be good if all three banks were to behave in the same way that Anion Bank now does by cutting down the loans, by reducing the bank to make money for owners. Now we need to lend to the development of infrastructure for sceptres, scientific funds, and innovations. It would be easier to do if we had variety on the market, if we had a business bank that cared for people's finances from cradle to grave, so to speak, and ordinary companies; banks that were financed mostly by loans, and then by means of investment banks, which had another rule, which would not be financed by loans, would not have the Secret Bank as a lender for failure, would have a different rule and setting. We need a competition at a financial market in Iceland. Separated from investment banking, we increase competition and release restrictions. Madam President. I hope that more members of Congress will respond well to this proposal and take advantage of the opportunity to act. I hope so. Councilmen who have been members of such councils at once do not allow their interests to be influenced in such a clear way by members of the administrative body as an independent member of the administration team. The bill we're discussing here -- it's harmless, there's nothing dangerous to agree with, but there's nothing to do with it, it's to fool people. It's showtime to make people think they're building boundaries between investment banking and business banking. It's better to walk all the way in the Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u35	Madam President. We'll discuss a line of defense in investment banking. It may be worth it to start off with a line of defense, at least to my mind, to my soccer mind, and to see that you don't have to watch a lot of football games. To plan to set up what some have called a Chinese wall or a space between two factors in a company's activities is really some kind of political magic, an attempt to wave their hand so that things look different. In the foundation of the bill, the same control of the same money within the same institution and does as dangerous things as before, but somewhere there will be a defensive line, which may not be broken and perhaps not, which will justify the fact that things have not gone to hell, as they have sometimes done. Earlier in this discussion, i.e. In the discussion of separation between investment and business banking, there was also talk of separation. I think Iceland's government has a small divorce system and would rather have a watered and limited version of this separation, which actually looks good while no one looks too close to it, much rather than a real separation, which is not such a radical idea. Here is a limit to how much of your financial capital can be invested, 15%, which is a substantial amount of Icelandic bank capital. It is therefore a question of whether it is real damage, severe damage, for these institutions, e.g. for investment banks, having to accept a full accounting separation, a predominant separation, even simply that a business bank belonged to an investment bank, but rather than being thrown away with the others. In praxis is some separation, it is within the same kit, etc., as we see many cases, but it is still within the same kit as it will all go together. What's wrong with keeping it separate? I've heard of it as a tendency to pretend it's a radical idea to ensure that there's a lot of ventures within investment banks and that there's a similar distinction between public business jobs that turn, e.g. to save and deposit and, in many cases, to save individuals' credit lines in the community which, unlike investment banking, protected by money banks, protected by deposit insurance and, in many cases, are protected by a variety of mechanisms who are supposed to ensure that when things go to hell, as they do, the risky investment activity will not go down in the public unless the community has voluntarily and freely, generally reasonably informed, decided to take a certain risk. I mean, it's radical not to separate. If we look at history, in the 20th century, there was a separation between investments and business banks for 66 years in one of the biggest and most powerful capitalists in the history of mankind. It should be noted that shortly after this separation, the system collapsed in that country. Whether it is by chance or not, it is difficult to determine. But there are well many books that have been written on it so that if anyone were to read any of them, they could see evidence of real separation. Now it seems that the first synonym proposal I was with, when I arrived at a council in my time, was exactly the highest vote of the council. Prime Minister Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, and another publisher at that time was the highest. Healthcare Minister of Svandís Svavarsdóttir. This suggested a proper separation. I'm going to read from the proposal's report, by permission of the president, that says: ▪ Combining public banking with the venture - making investment business can result in damages to the public because of investments that have gone to the fore rather than rejection of everything and strict measures made by those who made the risky arrangements. Since the fall of the bank in the fall of 2008, much criticism has been raised about bank methods in the pursuit of failure. The laws and regulations they carried out have been no less responsible for the criticism and review, since one of the main reasons the banks were able to attack risky investments beyond all reason and expand their activities beyond control. In particular, it has been found that depositors responsible for the State, both business banks and savings, have been reimbursed as gambling money in reckless investments, including financial investments. in companies that were closely related to the owners of these same financial institutions. The report briefly reviews the history of this separation in the United States by means of the Glas-Seaagall Act, which were in force there in 1933 ◯1999. There's a lot of fine stuff out there. Most important, we may realize that there has been a talk about setting up a proper separation for at least 11 years. Perhaps some have talked about it before that time, but that has not happened. Now comes in this film proposal that's not necessarily bad, but it just doesn't go as far as the need is, in view of the experience we have. And it is not as if this is an experience we do not personally know, we know exactly how this story ends. I would have wanted us to have followed the suggestions of the highest degree. A few years ago, a prime minister suggested that it seemed convenient to go to the watered edition, perhaps because it was more suitable for some of the groups of fellow workers. Still, should we accept doing this because it is better than doing nothing? Is this better than the government, Madam President? Or is it just showy? I fear that's the second thing because it's not better than nothing. It's nothing. However, it might be possible to do a little more than nothing by agreeing to a good change form, both from the 1st to the 2nd. At least we would see this segregation as a requirement. Then we would lower the threshold to 10% of our own financial status, which may not be quite enough, and we would also have the chance of reevaluing it within a few years. These are joints that can be used to make this at the beginning of a real separation. Danger is present. She's going to remain unchanged, and I'm afraid we're going to call this the end of the story.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u36	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for his speech. I come first and foremost up here to deny the claim that this is mere showy. There's a lot to endure, but you can't put up with it all the time. Talk about being virtual. You see, this is a very well - founded case. There is one white book on the financial system. It's a very good report of a financial and economic team that runs very well the ways in which the nations have gone. The nations, much larger and much larger, have gone into full separation. What are they doing today? It's complicated and it's going back. [[For example, consider: It's wrong.]] - Yes, there is a report from the European Union that suggests this very sensible and careful approach. I just want you to read that report, the staff report. I think very much about such claims on this matter. There's been, and it must be kept in place, drawing here a line between the lines. Of course, this is so that if tests are made, the bank will have increased pressure to react and raise the amount of money. That's it. Speaking of the failure of the defensive lines, you'll react with it and you'll be able to make a firm defense.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u37	Madam President. I don't know if it's worth fighting with a famous football player on the nature of a defensive line. We totally know they're going to break. [[Up front.]] They like to crash. It's just gonna be seen which claim is right, that it's showy, or not. I hope I'm not right. I hate when I'm right about these things because usually when I'm right about things like this, we're talking about serious things in the economy. I'd love to be wrong about this. But the fact is, there are demands, e.g. in CRD4, which assumes that the autologous ballanists are running out over time. Putting a roof like that on 15% can create a clip within the CRD4 protocol, which I expect to do. A senator may know well, and this may make things worse in a conservative sense to a bank if there are sudden hardships. I don't know if we need to fight about this. If we don't have to argue about this, if we all understand how CRD4 works in praxize, we should not be asking whether 15% or 10% is the right number, but why we're making this increased risk on top of it. But let's talk about this simply. In the United States, there is a 66 - year - old experience of thoroughly separating these things. There is a very limited experience of separating it with such a Chinese wall and a defensive line, or what it should be called, and it hasn't given much of a gift. I can't wait to see that this proposal works because it's not safe.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u38	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator resists. No, of course we shouldn't have to fight, but I can come up here and deny that this is showy. I also find that I do little to reduce the evaluations and reports given by experts who have done a very good job and are building up the existing bill. Here, we are indeed responding to what has been exerting ourselves for a decade. However, it is taking a step, and it is respectable. While it may seem to some extent in answer to this question, I believe that we can handle this matter, that we will build some defensive lines. We must not forget, too, in this discussion, that the SEC plays a vital role and is already authorized to observe this. Because I'm getting into the fine work that's behind, I'm going to refer to this good report that comes from the staff, from very good specialists mentioned at the front of this report. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ Separation is inevitablely associated with significant costs. After a collapse, the restored vitality of home - to - house banks has been restored. It is assessed by the Committee that the changes in bank regulations or riverwaters are sufficient and that unchanged is not a strong basis for organizational change in a foreign - language pattern. That's right. This process has been followed by separation in Britain and in the United States, but there are also steps to be taken back there because there are complex factors involved. It is not a perfect arrangement between a business banker and an investment bank, and it makes it difficult to get into this separation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u39	Madam President. I have to admit, I was hoping that it would. A senator would at least Try to bring some justification for the lack of risk within the CRD4 frame. When I begin to think about it now, it would have been all too much for me to be in my speech, just what a trap can become is potentially dangerous. It is not always easy to shed billions of dollars on zeros when there is a sudden tribulation. To be fair, I can absolutely agree that there were many people working to do this whole thing -- I view this as mere showliness in the government rather than in the government because here we are talking about a government that is directly preconceived by people who have suggested a much better, clearer, more direct route. [[It wasn't show.]] Doing this one step when we could go all the way may be of some benefit, but can't we even do things properly? We know this can be dangerous. We have this example. What's the problem? It sounds like a reason. A senator even agrees with me in some way that it would be better to do this properly. Why do we always, every time, have to make a discount? And when we take a closer look at the basis for this, it's so that those who have a lot of money to be able to gamble with public property would like to have it that way. That's the only explanation I've ever been able to find. If there are other explanations, I look forward to hearing them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u40	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to celebrate hearing the chairman of the budgetary committee raise their voices. This happens all too seldom. But, hey. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy said that he was hoping that he would be wrong or wrong. True, I don't remember that night. A senator may have been right, but that may have happened. After listening to a talk, I think about it. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy, for he and all his party, I think, have written and said publicly that we should listen to experts, that we don't know everything and we don't know everything. Today, experts have been working this case for a very long time, and everyone believes that there is no full separation in Icelandic conditions on investment banks and business banks. That's an increase in the cost of it. It's an increase in problems. It weakens the banks. I want to ask you why. A senator: Should we completely overlook all the experts in this matter, or should we just listen to experts when it's convenient for us to do so? That's the big question. I know that men brought in the constitution of the Council of Government and returned it, even though all the experts had rejected it, and south - this is another subject, forgive the president, but they just put it back in. This love of specialists and this expert gesture of Pirata is obviously just somehow handmade.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u41	Madam President. I can't help it, though. A senator is in favor of doing cherry picking, i.e. choosing to listen to the experts who agree with him and who ignore all the others. I can quite mention experts who have spoken for complete separation, full of them. It was here, for example. in page 2, a smaller section referred to Ragnar Önundarson, who introduced fine points into this. We can also talk about British economist John Kay, who has talked about similar things. I mean, how many experts do you have to draw out before we can at least... Do you agree that not everyone agrees? Also with the constitution. Hv. One senator says that there is no expert to support them. I don't know any better than a lot of experts have. Expertry is something we must be careful about, but we must also be careful not to go to cherry picking and just choose to listen to people who agree with us. This is not usually a good check. What we need to do is examine all the evidence with and at times, form a stand, and take a stand on that foundation rather than make a stand and look for evidence that supports it. Here it is simply the fact that we have 66 years of experience with full - time separation. In fact, we have centuries of experience that only a limited amount of separation is not working. We also have recent examples of the limitations of separation. Please bring all the experts, but also compare the results, compare the story, and compare reality as it impresses us. On that basis, we may be able to make informed decisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u42	V.E.G. President. Yes, that's right. We can always find one expert in our language. But it's everyone who works on this system, recognizes it, and in, who says, "It's just your bullshit, more or less. [[Foreground on: No.]] It's like I say: I have a lot of experts who say there are no climate problems, it's just a bunch of bullshit. There's a lot of them. I'm sure we can count them for thousands, but they're just a small fraction. It's just the same with the constitution. Hv. A senator can find someone who is not self - expert; he has only a political opinion; therefore, there is a need to distinguish between when people have knowledge or expertise in something and when men are in politics. So - called experts are often in politics. Hv. One senator said that we had good experience of keeping this totally separate. How was the banking system in the last century? It was completely ruined and could not do any business. I'm not going back there, and I'm not going to leave the whole part to the state and take all the risk. I'm not there. A senator, and will never go there. I'm just saying, it's not even wise to just break up in Icelandic reality. There is also no evidence that in itself the risk of a crash is greater if a person is in investment banks than in business banks. If there's any outward show in this case, as it may be, it's this lawsuit to say that if we don't separate business banks and investment banks, there's a possibility of a crash. There's no reason for that. Even if there's one special person, that doesn't work for me.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u43	Madam President. Let's start with saying I didn't say that having this thing like this was a check for a crash. What I said was, if it was like this and there was a crash, the consequences could be much worse. That's what I'm saying. Now I feel like a whale. In an effort to lure me into discussions about the Constitution and climate change, and other things I'm all up to and always into. But try to talk about what is at hand. It's always that when we're making laws and rules about how the economy works, how banks work, we're trying to create some kind of balance, some sort of melancholy, some sort of mechanism that's safe with society, not closing too many doors, and not offering danger to the world. It's said that if we go this way, we're going into the banking system like it was 1990 in Iceland or something like that, where there was a pack. The senator was repeatedly confronted with endless capital and currency capitals and whatever one, high - interest system, and the like. We do not live in the same situation that we lived in, but there are things we can learn from the history and experience of other countries that have done things better. That is why I say, " Let's learn from the experience of other nations, try to do things better, and not always be so skin - year - old when you start to criticize the fact that things are bad, especially when we really know that it is. '
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u44	Madam President. I recommend a synonym to order a group of staff rights to care for a sick or injured child. My importers are members of the Left Motion, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Magnúsdóttir Rafney Magnúsótir, and Steinunn, the Þóra of Árnadóttir. The motion reads, with the president's permission: The General concluded to hide a social and child - care minister to order a group to consider whether the right of parents or guardians in a labour market should be determined to care for a sick or injured child in relation to a number of children. In the line of work, representatives of the Allied Union of Iceland, BSRB, BHM, the Association of Professional Life, the Children's Association, the Children's Agent, the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs and Social Affairs. The group will report to the minister no later than 31st May 2021.κ The goal of the proposal is to assign a minister to establish a team of workers to determine whether a workforce should be defined in the right of parents or those who exercise custody of a child in order to take care of a child with respect to a number of children. At the same time, a bill is presented to be specifically ordered in children's law that in custody, a sick or injured child is entitled to care for his parents. It is, Madam President, the 30th case which I have also brought here at the council, i.e. bill to correct a change in child law. I'm going to read the proposal as it reads there, this is a change of 2 mg. Twenty-eight. The law, by permission of the President: The right to care for a parent should be given to an injured or ill child. The report then explains what is meant by parents. This is because, as the bill shows, that the rights and duties of a labour market are the nature of a matter defined mainly in collective agreements, and we all feel that it is normal for people to negotiate with each other. However, there are two kinds of rights, the right of a sick or injured child to care for a parent or guardian, and the right of an employee to care for a sick or injured child. Hence, it is appropriate to take the lead in appointing a group on these matters. Then the importance of harmony between these rights is corrected. According to the motion, a minister is assigned to appoint a task force. In the group, the listed members should be evaluated for the right of a sick or injured child to care for the parents rather than for the right of a parent to have the right to care for sick children during a period of 12 months. Judging by this, a child who develops two parents and who is an only child, in some cases, may be entitled to care for his parents for up to 28 days if he is sick or in an accident. The child of a single parent who does not care, who has two siblings in the same situation, could be right within two to three days. This is significant because we have a validated United Nations Children's Convention, which specifically states that we should look at such matters from the rights of our child. Parts of the labour market and public members have already defined the parents'collective rights in this regard, thus leading with a good example. The implementation of parental rights or guardians will thus remain in the hands of the labour market partners. In agreements or protocols, it would be appropriate to determine how to deal with the view that parents or those who exercise custody are concerned with each child and thus ensure the child's right to care for the child. In a paper with the bill I moved here in the fall, the views I've been reviewing were attributed to the views I've been considering, including the connection with the United Nations Children's Covenant. In that covenant, a child's right to join his parents and caregivers even refers to as one of the cornerstones of the covenant. This is important. With contributions from the state of the Parliament, i.e. These two, is the policy or is endeavoring to take in the policy that the right to care for a sick child is not only the right of a paid parent but also the right of the child to take care of him or her. Hence, it is reasonable to aim for the right to take into account each child rather than to aim at a particular parent's rights for a 12 month period at this time. Therefore, your child's rights must not be dependent solely on a number of siblings or a combination of family members. I then refer, Madam President, to the case as it is suggested today, i.e. No. 30. Of course, a contract and an opinion on this point are considered, and they can be many and may quickly include some of them as burdensome to employers, even if employers were in some way tempted to hire people with many children because it could mean even more rights and risk that the employee would be much absent. This may be correct, but we have previously solved such cases, Mrs. President, in the labour laws, to form in the maternity law, where it is simply decided that a certain portion of rights is funded from a joint fund, with an insurance bill, as is done with the birth certificate. It is of importance that all of these factors are looked into just because we do not have a problem with the possibility that we might be losing a certain group's ability to get a job in the light of the number of children that people may have. These are all things that are very important for such a service group to go over, and of course there are many others to consider. I believe the connection to the Children's Covenant is a key factor in this, i.e. Keeping in mind that we must as a community watch that there may be the right of children to the most important things. I trust the labour market partners, however, to take care of it, the labor movement, the activities of the industry and the Icelandic community, in order to find ways to reach these goals. That's why it's so important for them to join a group on this. I suppose the matter will go to the welfare committee, Mrs. President, I think it will be true, and I hope this case along with the others gets at least one. When a child's rights are not realized, a discussion of how he can deal with the rights of his parents and their guardians at the Icelandic labour market can be handled.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u45	Madam President. I hereby recommend a bill of a change in income tax law on several occasions. The members of the Independence Party, besides me, Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson son of Níelsson, Árnason the Arnazon, and Ásmundur Friurk's Friðriksson. This is our third attempt to get this little thing through, but it is, in itself, small and simple. In income tax laws, it says that a drop from the GDP of the year is to be taken and the difference taken as a gang order. With law No. 61/2008 added the rule that the difference should be made with equal sum in three years, starting with the account year of success. It should be realized that this law contains a lot of trouble and can be a major cost to lawmakers, especially to smaller companies. Some companies are obliged to place tens of thousands of dollars in the tax service during a period of over three years instead of paying taxes immediately. The bill suggests that this charge will be canceled, but instead there will be optional access. Preservations will be permitted, but it will not be necessary to pass the tax on to the expense of welfare for up to three years. The bill has no effect on the income of a government budget over a long period of time, in some cases it may speed up tax pay from a cost of profit, but it will probably lead to subsidies and simple enterprises, especially theirs. After this discussion, Madam President, I suggest that the matter be resolved. The Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u46	Madam President. I hereby recommend a hearing of maintenance and preservation of old boats. This is not the first time this proposal is offered. During the last assembly, proposals of the same material were basically unchanged, but they did not get a walk. The movers are, as well as it says here, okay? Senators Guðmundur Andri Thorsson and Oddný G. Harðardóttir. During the past two decades, there has been a discussion related to this aspect of our history that lies unsettled, lying in the low at the level of the council. There is no understatement or secondary issue, we are dealing with the preservation of part of Iceland's history and culture, how we bring back this nation's lives in a tangible and visible way, factors that have made it possible for this nation to survive, save it from distress and poverty. These are employment tools that we might pay attention to, which contributed to our being the community we are today. It is now over two decades since a proposal was made at the General Assembly, which runs on similar subjects. Since then, questions about the reason have been raised. How long is the worm staying? True, there is another proposal for this 151th Parliament to go in the same direction as it is well, but this proposal has a little more than that. She expects the minister to ship one more staff. It's not done here. We don't want to stay the same any more. We do not want to look at the cultural, boating, even down while a group is working. We want two ministers to take action and let their actions speak. The content has been covered to a different extent. This will also be done for a certain amount of time, and our individual situation is that we believe that it is normal for us to subsist on the subject of employment, stakeholders, and stakeholders. This is what the proposal says, with President's permission: The General concluded to hide a marine eco-efficiency and agricultural minister in consultation with the Ministry of Education and Culture for promoting a fund with the task of maintaining and maintaining old ships and boats. The sea enjoys annual donations of budgets as well as other factors that will contribute to the share of the marine fishing sector's work on the project. The sea is working on the basis of the five-year strategy and the rules for the implementation of projects, conservation values, and measures. Show up in the approved fund. The prime minister informs the General of the progress of the resolution before the end of the spring council in 2021. Madam President. There is certainly an optimist of optimism. The prime minister manages to arrange for the end of the council in spring, but there will be no disagreement if the matter is resolved. The key point is that this urgent project will be provided for preparation and specific preparation. In a paper with the Parliament's resolution proposal, it has previously been submitted with the aim of establishing specific income stocks to ensure the preservation and maintenance of older ships and boats, as above mentioned nearly 20 years ago. The terms of this material were proposed to a Council of 140 and 141, but they did not succeed. Suggestion was reimbursed at the 141th legion and again in vain. Today, Congress proposals are still made somewhat different, but they go down to the same thing. Then, at the 125th Council, the winter of 1999,2200, five members of all the councils then located at the Council made a bill to legalize that the seabed of evolution would have the added role of providing museums and seamhouses to sustain ships. In the case of the candidate, the view was that it was reasonable for the job to be also involved and responsible for its history and culture. Under it, the person who stands here is struck with the same tone in the motion presented here. The result of the case at the General Assembly was that the bill was converted to the treatment of a seafaring committee in a new Senate resolution brought on by the Committee on the maintenance of boats and ships. Was it not a good drive, then? Yes, the proposal was adopted at the same assembly by 49 joint votes. No doubt, some things have been lifted. By their interpretation, the government was commissioned to prepare proposals for the preservation of old ships and boats and to shape the rules of financing as a means of development in the marine waters. component. No suggestions or rules, however, in line with the confirmation of the Council decision, have been seen 20 years later. It was so at the 131th assembly, in the winter of 2004◯2005, that at that time the seafaring minister transferred the bill to a change in the law of the earlier ocean's development fund, which was aimed at laying down the fund. More than debt, possessions were to be set aside for the seaside fund and spent solely on ocean research. Old ships and boats were not to be kept, as the General had previously agreed. A smaller part of the fishing committee suggested a change in property beyond the specified amount and would be set aside to preserve old boats and ships as planned. Sadly, that proposal was made. Thus, full two decades have passed without government control and protection of old boats and safe ports, despite considerable efforts by the United States of Congress. Remember, this is one of the basic elements of Icelandic professional and cultural history. Similar protection is a emphasis among neighboring nations, and it takes much to do so. The Norwegians, for example, have built a new museum in Bygdøy, below their ship and boat, which is remarkable and old and cannot compare it with the Icelandic inheritance, although both of these nations have in their history the great sea cable. The Norwegians are going to defend approximately Two billion Norwegian dollars to build this facility in Oslo. It is probably for a people who teach them pride and respect to preserve their history and culture. Madam President. In this country, the National Museum of Iceland is a law coded by law as a cultural capital museum. Therefore, it should be as effective as possible to preserve the Icelandic cultural mines and share the history of the nation's people with them. This role plays an ambitious role in the National Museum. The contribution of the museum should not be minimized in that respect, but the lack of resources is considerable and a lack of facilities. Of course, collection is not enough, but more is needed. The camps around the country that care for many and varied projects for the preservation of memory and culture have endeavored to keep the watch to the extent that financial and circumstances allow. One part of the job is the preservation of old ships, i.e. Larger and smaller vessels that have historical value than those owned by boats are some 190. It is a boat of various types, and most of it is acid loads. They all meet the definition of being revered as relics rather than boats older than those in 1950 are relics under the laws of culture. There are now ships and boats that have reached this respectable age of about 15. Time is not particularly different from the owners who want to protect wooden boats. For example, four - dollar - and - smaller - are now virtually out of existence in an oceanlike state. By the turn of 1900, there were another thousand of these in the country that even had regional characteristics according to circumstances and in very good terms. This was one of the most important tools available to the rock - mass for centuries. Once again, Madam President, the same conclusion is that the Icelandic law designed to preserve the precious heritage of Icelanders, which is the protection of old boats, is, unfortunately, in an image, not to a deeper degree in the year. A protective system, e.g. comparable to what is being done at a shelter fund in evaluating workers. It uses a system in which each conservation factor is graded and assessed according to its overall results. Madam President. You can't keep everything. There's no way to keep all boats, and maybe not why, and I think it's true that we've stopped burning boats in some Olympic flag at the stake for a year's time. I hope so. But we need to preserve the tributary of Icelandic boat and boat culture, and we need to try to keep them floating at sea. It's the best stay-over. They are no longer on land, but they are expensive, and there is no reason to do so. There is reason to urge the government to keep on the watch regarding the nation's professional history and culture. A form of complacency is clear in the effective efforts made to provide financial support for the preservation of boats with public funds. Therefore, it is still attempted to propose to the Council that the recent 100 - year anniversary of Iceland's sovereignty and reason to link it up, confident that there is a willingness to correct it. It is suggested that the government be committed to the establishment of a fund designed to assign funds for the maintenance and preservation of old boats and ships. The aim will be to produce a living collection of boats that reflect in worthy ways one of the most important elements of Icelandic professional history. That's never too often to be said. Transporters imagine that the fund enjoys annual donations, as well as those that will be contributed to the work of the marine road on the project. Transporters believe that there is a rich will and can be within the branches of the fishing field, within the factory, in order to meet this preservation project and to support it in a powerful way. We know that Iceland has a powerful manufacturing business, and Icelandic builders have shown that they are amateurs for Icelandic culture, Icelandic art, and business, as well as hard investments. I wouldn't be surprised if they were to add their weight to the scales there, where a remarkable preservation project is within their own branches. We suggest that there be a five-year plan that the fund will work on the basis of the approved fund where there will be rules for maintaining values, distributions to projects, etc. It may well be thought that the fund does not have to blow out for long. Rather, it may be partly hidden from companies, institutions, funds, or associates to operate the unique tasks of individual ships regionally, as we know so well from neighboring lands. It's, for example. The joy of coming to Oslos, seeing the cross section of boat culture sail around the beach every day for a year. In Bergen, one of the most elegant ships in the world, Statsraad Lehmkul, its operating estate, even rents it out as a school ship, and research for the future years of environmental protection and climate research. There's a lot of work we can do. Madam President. The main point is that this project is being fulfilled, and it is important that the funds we make for the establishment will be put into good cooperation with all the museums that are active around the country, which are 13 in the 14th century.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u47	A respectable president. I speak the third time for this justice issue. I recommend a bill on behalf of the Gangs, the entire council is on the case. It's a very simple bill, in fact, only to prevent the discrimination as little boatmen, beach fishermen, cute. In 1st. says 1st. 6 mg. Section 6. ... we'llpass away from the law on 2nd floor. says the law should be valid on April 1. The case has been presented twice before, both in 149 and in 150 C.E., but it did not work out, as remarkable as it may sound. This bill suggests that there will be an elimination of coastal fishing regulations in the laws on the control of fish fish that require that you abstain from fishing - forgive me, Madam President, am I in the wrong place? I sincerely apologize. You see, I have three fish bills today, and I think I'm just ahead of myself, so I'm going to turn to the bill that's just the day of hunting that our beach fishermen are assigned to. Also, I've recommended this level of fair and justice twice, and as mentioned earlier, I have recommended it both in 149 and in 150th C.E. It's also a matter of justice, just like what I was so quick to go forward here, but it's coming to you afterwards. They are meeting Coastal fishermen and allowing them to choose their own days in summer or during the four months of the year they can travel to the sea. It is suggested that coastal fishing regulations be suspended in the laws on the management of fish fish fish that establish the criteria not to engage in fishing Friday, Saturday and Sunday, and that a minister can by regulations prohibit coastal fishing on common holidays. Some experience has developed a new coastal fishing arrangement, which was introduced into the legislation on the control of fish that was approved at the World Council of 26 April 2018. In many ways, the beach fishing system is a successful arrangement, some say. However, during the summer season, a significant change in waterfronts and the welcome income in the country has been achieved, but the last two coastal fishing periods have failed to fully dispense the resources available to coastal fishing. The total catch for coastal fishing in the summer of 2018 was 10,200 tons of uncut bottom fish. A total of 548 boats were involved in this fishing business and became a total of 9,396 tons. Thus, 804 tons of liquid species were unscheduled at the end of the Coastal Fishing period. The entire cod section of the season was 9,075 tons. Based on cohesion and average coastal fishing forces in the summer of 2018, the value of unfished cod is estimated to have studied about 200 million. K. The same is true when statistics for the 2019 coast fishing period are considered. The map for coastal fishing was 11,100 tons of unscrupulous bottom fish in commercial species. A total of 623 boats were on the coast that year, growing from year to year, becoming a total force of over 9,700 tons. Thus, about 1,350 tons were unsuspected at the end of the 2019 period. According to information on the fishing lab's web, the sea fishing force was almost exclusively cod, but everything caught nearly 9170 tons of it. The price of cod was over one third higher in the summer of 2019 than in the summer of 2018. If it is carefully estimated that the average price was 320 k/kg, it can be estimated that more than 400 million. K. The cod value has been unsaturated at the end of value of 2019. It is more important than tears when you look at how the equipment is in our little TV monitors around the country and consider not being able to take advantage of available resources for coastal fishing. Many variables here are responsible for effects and probably increase the weight of natural fluctuations in these substances. These include the drab of fishing and the lack of self - control. The current fish - control laws also place significant limits on the fishing capacity of the coast fishing fleet. These include only certain days each week in May, June, July, and August. Each boat has a maximum of 12 each month of hunting days. Only hand rolls can be used, and no more than four in each boat. The time limit for each hunting trip is 650 kg codfish level of commercial species. As noted earlier, in the summer of 2018, 548 boats were involved in coastal fishing and 623 in the summer of 2019. There's a lot of national financial commitment in this fleet. It can be considered practical for every summer to include hundreds of millions of dollars of fishing grounds in a catch - price level. The entire population will be made up of income. Transporters believe that by canceling regulations forbidding fishing Fridays, Saturday and Sunday, as I say here, and authorized ministers to ban coastal fishing on average holidays by regulations have more space to choose their 12 days each month. This allows for better use on hunting days and thus for greater hope. This would increase the likelihood that the coast fishing fleet would fully use its resources, for the benefit of society. A respectable president. In fact, it is quite remarkable how the small boat structure is handled around the country. Who's better to know if he's going to go out on a Wednesday in a storm, unable to catch a storm than he's gonna catch a fish? He can't even break it up and say, "No, I'm not going to go today, Wednesday's just boring and bad luck, and I'm not going to risk myself going out on my boat in a shit storm -- Forgive your language -- I'm going to wait and see, the weather is great this weekend. The worst part is that you can't even move days, can't do anything. It's just, you know, this is how you keep it. I told you to do it like this. stór brother's speeches, and when I say you can, you go fishing. Period. If you can't catch the catch because you can't get to sea, it's just gonna have to be. You can't move him from year to year. That's pretty clear. stór brother says no. Based on the way the towns have been treated around the country, they have killed the commercial ladder all over the place, it is quite different. It will not be the fishing boats that kill the life around the country. That's pretty clear. It's not those who overfish the fish. It's a matter of justice, and I can't believe I'm giving it a third year in a row. Governments are in a position to meet the beach fishermen and simply give them this freedom, this choice. We're always talking about freedom, democracy and all that stuff on board, but then we're putting fences like that, stuffing people into a box, listening and being nice, honor your father and mother. I can't figure out why we don't talk about this anymore. I think it's important that I feel that we should discuss it more here. We should draw together the conclusion that this is a fair and just thing. There is no point, therefore, in breaking off one's show of pride in this Regulation and oppression and yoke that is placed on the miniboat and actually giving her this freedom. I'd like to, as I've recommended, increase these days, and in fact, the group's policy is to have a completely free beach hunt. The people think it's a huge benefit, and I wanted to see our visual space come to life rather than see them bleeding out like you've been seeing in recent years. A respectable president. It will be interesting to have this matter brought into the committee one more time and to receive reviews. More interesting than that, it will be to see if it is not in one of the drawers and insurrections there and will not be doing anything as we have done in the League of Nations. This work is actually by a remarkable, respectable president. I can't say that's all I can say. It is completely different. It doesn't matter whether it's fair, normal, or what it's called; if it doesn't come from the constitution itself, it's lame and it can only be found in some drawer and it doesn't receive further political treatment. However, it is a matter of great importance, in this case for more than 600 small - boat sailors. This is a case that can bring hundreds of millions of people, as well as the community in general, into tax pay and so forth, not one dollar to the State but to create an increase in financial resources. When such matters are held in the drawer without any political treatment, without being welcomed as normal and fair as going through, when such matters are thrown into the trash, it is not likely to be good. But let's see, it's just 1st. The bill will go to a committee, and if miracles happen, we'll get it in twice again, and the third time it came in, it'll be paid for that vote. Let us see where this leads us. A respectable president. Even if the sun is out, and it's a wonderful day, and even though optimism and smiles help the day, we're in the people's Gang with a balanced outlook. I'm gonna send you a smile, though, and I hope this goes well.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u48	A respectable president. We're here on bill to legalize the people's group on the change in fishing management, a form of coastal fishing, free beach fishing. Coastal fishing was once free. My first memory of the free fishing of the sea is that I am with my grandfather at the light of the light, Elphefjord on the west side; he went out on a small rowing boat to get a catfish, cod, and other fish to hang on a sledge, dry, and make fish. I think if he, and those who rode on the beach fishing here by shore saw the system that has been created today, he'd be shocked. As a teenager, I went to a hand fishing business in Snæfellsni, where I became for the first time, as far as I could see from my eyes, by flogging the surface of the sea as far as I could see it; the sea swelled as if it were boiling, and the rest remained. That's where we got the bolt of corn, the grouse. In memory, it was a fairy tale. Sadly, though, free coastal fishing is not available, and reasonable coastal fishing is not available. It's kind of weird, if you start thinking about how big a brother is in his surveillance, saying, "Hey, you can't catch but 12 days a month, and you can't catch Friday, Saturday, and Sunday. What is the basis for this? I don't think there's any. There's no way to argue with this kind of bullshit. I could have understood if it had been said that I could catch 12 days a month but not go out when the weather was crazy. Or if it had been said: Use common sense and do not go out when the weather is distressing or forecasting. But what a surprise to say: You're not going out fishing Friday, Saturday, and Sunday. It is also in the spirit that government by government has established, which somehow is destructive to those who win. There's a lot of work to be done to create valuables, to make use of the sights all around the country. If we think back in time, when foreign ships were fishing here in Iceland, hundreds of thousands of tons grew. Then it was said that when they left, the power would grow. What has happened since then? We have also come to the point, with tugwish and so on, that certain species, such as shrimp, lobster, have been destroying. We are in the strange position of the more efficient and more destructive fishing instruments used, the more fishable we can catch. These are, in effect, the most eco-friendly fishing fish, and you can't forget that so much of the energy goes into the market. If something were healthy in our environment, it would be to give beach fishing free. And why? Yes, because the country is in a state of protection. The little villages must be prepared to fight. When you see the tourists moving through the country, coming into the little sealands - fresh fish at the restaurant. They get down to the dock, see the human life running, can take pictures, and see for the first time in their lives, little boats come to the dock with an alcohol - rich fish. No, this is not to be done because a big brother has already made that decision. You can only hunt 12 days a month, it's forbidden Friday, Saturday and Sunday. They do not predict anything or anything else, just commands and bans. It's just like when you say, "I'm supposed to stop working 70," and if they're brave enough to work, they're just out of business. It's an amazing approach. We're supposed to make sure that shore fishing is getting bigger. It was permitted to hunt 10,200 tons of 2018, which would be left only to 9,396 tons, some 804 tons, and I find it very strange, for sure it was the purpose of these regulations and bans on Fridays, Saturdays, Sundays, and the 12 - day rule. Although we would double this catch and even triple the beach fishing boats, I think it would only have a good effect on the settlements, as well as on the fish in the sea. I think the coast fishing boats are the last to wipe out the fish around the country, but they give these little settlements the most, and that's why we're supposed to change this system. Of course not, for a government by government defends large structures. They have the power, they have the money, they make billions, they pay 10 or 20% of the cost of fishing. And what do they do with the money? Yes, buying power, buying media, buying companies, selling the others and these companies, construction companies, all kinds of companies. At the same time, most of these people live in this area and want their settlements the best but are unable to hunt. It's amazing that we're in the position today to have things so strange. I hope that the bill will go through as early as possible and then the beach fishing will be free. But I don't think it will be, and the only way for such things to change is by Davíð, in the form of little boaters, the victory of Golíat, the great preparations that have everything. It is our only hope that this change can take place. If the four groups so far have had control, seen, and marked this system, it will continue to be all taken care of, unfortunately. But I hope there will be a change.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u49	A respectable president. Here I am to the bill I stole earlier, which is the bill for removing a so-called beach fishing fee that hits no one but the miniboat project, the bill of a change in the fish lab law, No. 36/1992. I recommend it for the second time on behalf of the entire Philly Class. In 1st. says: "2. mg Section 6. The law will pass away. Two. says the law will become valid as soon as it is actually accepted, in the event of an odd turn of events. The bill was previously submitted to the 150th legislature, as I mentioned, but could not be passed, as oddly as it might seem. According to one report, in the spring of 2010, one year after the current coastal fishing system went into effect, N. 33/2000. It stated that a license for coastal fishing, as well as a general license payment, should be paid $50,000. for every beach fishing permit published by the government. A fish lab should collect the fee. So the map of a beach fishing fee should be set aside where a catch obtained from coastal fishing would be in the country. Since then, the so - called Coastal Fishing Cost has remained the same but with 1 str. law on changing the law on Fish Room and various other laws, No. 67/2015, the law was extended to 6. song about Fish Room. I've been making inquiries to the ocean-station minister on an assembly line. I have received many important answers, very good answers. You've been able to collect into the seaside and draw up a better picture, a more complete picture, not just about shore fishing but on a lot of other things, a picture of our general fishing route. This is a priceless database and the privilege of our senators to send in queries and request the written answers of the Ministers. I was, for example. ... withan inquiry to the marine economist and agricultural minister at 149 of the legislatures that I am discussing here. Even there was a number of them. asked about the amount of so - called coastal fishing fees from the start of 2010, 11 years ago, to the final value of 2018, this is an eight - year period, listed in prices and ports, and calculated in all cases to the current value. In response to the marine economist and agricultural ministers, this price was reported to exceed a total of 342 billion over the country over the year. K., over the 11 years, calculated as being modern in April/May 2019. For today, the average day would be 38 million. K. every year. The price has gone down, as the small boats have declined. They increased slightly in the summers, and my hope is that they will continue to grow because they are truly natural fishing, loyal hunting, and must be said at the present time. If we are going to go fishing at sea on another level, we can hardly succeed in living things more than by doing hand fishing. In 2019 a fishing boat was 421, and by that boat, the coast fishing cost was worth more than 30 million. K. I'm not going to go into all these numbers and information in the answers from the marine and agricultural ministers, I'm just going to refer to them because they've become many, as I used to say, and very interesting and fun to read and study. But I'm going to point out, to make a long story short, that the 50,000 bucks. which beach fishing sailors are now made pay for some ports or weighed fees - these are the only people who attend the sea that have to pay that price. It's totally customized. They are completely discriminated against from A to A because they pay all other fees. They pay port fees, they pay expenses for access to the resource. They pay a few cents for every kilo they catch at sea. They pay for all the services they're getting. It's amazing that this charge has been stuck in there for so long and that it is not attempted to meet them and simply remove it. It is not even enough that they are not allowed to decide when they will go to the tons assigned each year. Rather, it is the specific tax of 50,000 dollars. Put them on one of them all. I may not be a lawyer, but I know one thing, and it's determined to have careful administrative practices, and it's also recommended that we not treat the people in a grossly and clearly. I don't know better than that at the High Council, we're right here trying to stop such obvious discrimination from happening. So I was amazed that this matter was not better handled when I last spoke up. I hope that it's going to be better with that right now. Anyway. I'd like to mention one of the inquiries I also had, one of many, as I wondered how the fund was in the country and if there was any chance of justifying these 50,000 bucks. and if there was anything else behind it, and this would not be so obvious indiscriminate and so on. But it doesn't matter how you look or what requisite basis you give yourself, there is nothing that can support you with any reason to give these people the terms, the miniboats, the beach fishing boats, to pay the price. It may be fun to assume that at one time the answer to my inquiry shows that 90.4% of the total coastal fishing levels were sold on the fishing markets in this country. This conflicts with the claims heard from opposers'research that some significant part of the catch is being placed in a container for sale and processing in the United Kingdom. Nearly all the coast fishing forces are going to work here in the country, so they say. It also says that a lot of countries - it's so fun to read this, a respectable president - I'm just urging you to read those answers. They are very good, they are numerically right, and they are clear, and they can really support you in doing your job with some sense of reason. The bill I gave earlier is, in fact, about giving beach fishing sailors their freedom to choose their 12 days themselves to hunt each month, and this bill indicates that these parties are not the only ones to pay 50,000 dollars. for things they don't have to do and already have done, e.g. In the form of port fees. It's out of date, it's a violation of equality, it's pure and complete discrimination, and it's just not supposed to happen. I certainly recommend that we at the high council embrace this matter and correct it, for this is nothing but a mistake and a premise that this price is, as I said, absolutely none.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u50	A respectable president. We'll discuss this bill to correct the conversion of fishshop laws with subsequent changes (the cost of coastal fishing costs). As noted in the talk "Wicked. " paritaprevir Inga Sæland Land is a special fee, $50,000 a.m. ... ina fieldofgradation. If we were to transfer this price to the big ships, and everyone had to pay the price based on how many of the ships are and how many tons of fish they take, and they had to pay the price equivalent to $50,000. ... ifa beach fishing boat, I think that would now hear the wailing of many in the fishing industry, they wouldn't be ready to pay something in particular, if this were put on just an open seaship specifically, or especially on a tugship or particularly on a line. No one would want it, and that is why it is unfair and incomprehensible. But for some reason, the lawgiver and the government have discovered that these are wide banks to receive this price, as the bill shows. It says, under the permission of a president: ▪ Coastal fishing projects are small companies and earn only four months of beach fishing each year. During that period, the boats can be made up only 12 days each month, a total of 48 days. Remember, not Friday, not Saturday, and not Sunday, for some reason. However, as the above figures indicate, fishing in Iceland has become a source of stability and has turned them to the national farm. Both experience and all numbers show that the seafronts of the world's seas would have a similar vision if these waters were not available. Just as the bill mentioned above, that's exactly what it was. Much of this is the lifeblood of the little villages all around the country. So here's what we're saying, with the permission of a president: The so - called sale price is a specific tax laid on one of the groups that are made in excess of others. There are no similar fees on ships who do not hunt on the beach. This involves inconsistencies, in view of the fact that Coastal fishing boats's owners pay legal ports as well as others. Hence, this bill suggests the removal of the coastal fishing fees in the Fishing Room Act. Amen to that. It's one of many unfair things in the system, it's an unfair fee, unfair attitude toward some particular source. Incomprehensiveness is often incomprehensible, it's as if it's just luck and failure, there's someone we can do wrong, and there's someone else, but there's no idea of the point of discrimination. We have a constitution that forbids discrimination, but we are always at odds. There is always a requirement for a new constitution, but I say for my part: Isn't it time for us to go to the current constitution? When are we going to do that and stop all this discrimination? People are discriminated against just because they can. I hope that this will go through, but, as you might expect, it is a small hope because those who are in power paid this fee, this discriminatory fee, and will probably defend it because they believe that some of the reasons they should pay a special currency to the state. It's amazing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u51	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a bill to legalise a change in the remuneration of remuneration and the related insurance of pensions, No. 55/1980, with subsequent changes. Transporters, along with those here, are Anna Kolb Kolbrún Year's Árnadóttir, Bergþór Ólason, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, Ólafur Ísleifsson, Sigmundsson, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, Sigurður Páll Jónsson, and Þöstein Sæmundsson. The objective of this bill is to match a labour market contract break, but according to a recent European Union study, the number of cases facing pay thefts and contract breaks has increased and they have become more serious. This bill suggests that the employment agency will be authorized to lay government tickets, up to 5 billion. K., on a job e.g., it seems that he has either knowingly or out of gross imprudently paid remuneration or other remunerations that are inferior to the minimum wage of the labour market. We're on 2. By permission of the President, three new paragraphs will be added: Employers are obliged to allow union unions and trade union partners access to recruitment contracts, remunerations and deadlines and to inform about the salary of the employee or the remuneration of the remuneration company because it is suspected that the professional has deliberately or out of gross failure to pay a paid person or other remunerations that are inferior to the minimum labour market requirements, such as. 1st par. Partners and union members are permitted to inform the Labour Office that an employer is suspected to be deliberately or accidentally paid by a remuneration worker or other remunerations less than a minimum wage in a labour market, cr. 1st The Agency shall provide data to support it. The employer should provide the information and information necessary by the Agency to assess whether the employer has deliberately or accidentally paid a employee or other remunerations less than the standard of minimum salary in the labour market. 1st g., such as employment contracts, salary bills and work-time reports. Two. says: ◯3. par. The law says: A labour agency can lay a charge on a professional driver as a deliberate or gross failure to pay a salary or other remuneration that is less than a standard minimum wage in a labour market, cr. 1st par. The Finest of Its Case one. can be studied from 50 of you. K. 5 million. K. The amount of guilt to be determined should take into account the nature and extent of the fracture, the duration of the event, and the duration of the offense. The decision of a government ticket should be written in writing to the employer and should follow written logic. The payday of government guilty is 30 days after the decision on the guilt was made. If a government ticket has not been paid within 15 days of due due to due date, the price of the fine should be paid at the end of the due date. As regards the decision and calculation of toil growth, No. 38/2001. The decision on government fines is planned, taking tickets from government funds to cut off the stress costs and collect them. Within three months of the announcement of the case, it is permitted that the official decision to be made by the Ministry of Employment should be made, and the Ministry shall issue a ruling within two months of the hearing of the decision. The labour ocer's source to impose administrative fines under these laws falls down at 5 years after the proposed management of a professional at the time. Three, five, five, five, five, six, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five. mg 2.g. It happened. In the second place, decisions made by the Directorate-General for Directorates in accordance with administrative legal requirements. In the 3rd. says: ◯4. par. The law says: The labour oce, the partner trade union, or the confidant, as appropriate, should give personal information, including personal information. sensitive person information, in the sense of a law on personal protection and processing of personal information, as reflected in the data presented by the above parties receiving copies on the basis of these laws, in accordance with their laws, such as the processing and preservation of the information. Personnel are forbidden to use their facilities to obtain information other than those needed or may be required to make decisions. Section 3. The labour oce is committed to silentness at the time of the Commission. Section X of the European Commission on the information that the Agency has to treat on the basis of these laws and preferably their obligation after they retire from the Agency's work. Mr. President. I'm just going to step out here and do a paper with the bill. As I said in the beginning, the bill's aim is to match a work trade fracture, but according to a recent study of the European Union of Iceland, the number of cases facing pay thefts and contracts has increased and they have become more serious. In particular, such offenses turn to groups who are less familiar with their job rights, such as foreign workers and young people and poor income. There is no penalties for such offenses, no fines, and the payer receives expenses for this. Therefore, such fractures can be repeated over and over again without penalties. While there are no fines to sell to employees, companies can actually choose to pay under collective contracts and then try to see if employees are looking to their trade union to collect what they should earn. It may, therefore, be noted here that the total demand of Member States, trade unions, due to the lack of pay given by an Economist partner was worth over a billion dollars in the last five years. In an announcement made by the company, less than long ago, pay theft is a far more serious problem than these figures suggest, the number of union unions that take over the less paid business of the sufferers. In addition, not nearly all earners are seeking their right to their employers for fear of losing their jobs, says the Member States. A report by a group of social and child - care ministers on social subsidiary and activities at the labour market, January 2018, suggested that public authority be established to intervene in the development of serious break-ups and that such sources have a general warning against break-downs. Thus, the bill suggests that the Labour Organization will be authorized to lay government tickets, up to 5 billion. K., on a job e.g., it seems that he has either knowingly or out of gross imprudently paid remuneration or other remunerations that are inferior to the minimum wage of the labour market. It is also suggested that 2nd pars be added. The same law requires that unions and their confidants have sufficient authority to call for information on salary pay from employers. This is essential so that any labour agreements can be carried out by the employer. Members and confidants are also authorized to report to the labour oce on intended behaviours and provide data to support it. It will also be added to the regulations that provide relevant resources to investigate a case fully, as well as to improve personal protection in the management of data, although it is clear that the laws of personal protection apply to them, as well as to the addition of the confidentiality of the workers of the labour agency's work. Transporters strongly believe that such measures require legal advice in order to avoid any incentive to pay under minimal remuneration without the requirement for this practice. The option is merely to address the labour violations of a labour market and is independent of the right of an employee to pursue his right to a professional driver with the support of his union and according to court cases. Mr. President. I'd like to say this here that a lot of employers treat their employees well, and in most cases, employers do well with their employees in terms of pay and benefits and the like. Sadly, a small group, skunks, as it were, has been found to pay under legal limits, and this bill turns around that it is an act of favor and then a government ticket. I only review a report on the individual articles of the bill, more than 1. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: It is suggested that trade unions and their confidants be given sufficient authority to call out for information on remuneration from the employer to suspect that the employer has deliberately or accidentally paid a hired employee or other remunerations that are less than the minimum paid at the labour market. The legalisation of such a warrant is essential for testing if agreements are carried out on the part of a professional driver. At the same time, the public agency, the labour agency, will be appointed to fine the employers who become present to such practice, and this is also suggested to legalise the authority of the employment agency to provide relevant information in order to meet the Agency's research duties before deciding whether to commit administrative guilt on the employer. About 2. says: It is suggested that a labour agency be assigned to lay administrative fines on employers as deliberate or unscrupulously paid salary or other remunerations which are less than the minimum wage in the labour market, cr. 1st par. law on remuneration and the related insurance of pensions, No. 55/1980, with subsequent changes. The directive explains the procedure to be carried out when committing a administrative ticket to a professional employer. It is expected that the decision will be made by the Office of Work for the Ministry. So in the matter of judicial action, no. 37/1993, with subsequent changes. On the other hand, an employer can direct the Commission decision to the courts to make him choose not to report to the Ministry. A decision to make administration is a administrative decision, and it is important to observe that administrative laws are handled according to all court treatments. About Section 3. says: To increase awareness of the principles of personal protection, we have a new arrangement set out here. However, a law on personal protection still holds the nature of the matter according to the processing of personal information if it is not specifically excluded by law. It is also clear that the Agency's source of information to fill information needed for the Agency to make a decision on administrative matters. In addition, the obligation of the Agency's employees to maintain confidentiality unless the law directs another, and the continuation of the confidentiality after work is completed. Mr. President. As mentioned earlier, the objective of the bill is to match a labour market cut, but according to a more recent survey I mentioned, by the Federal Association of Iceland, a number of such cases have increased in the last few years and have become more serious. No penalty for such violations is currently indicated, but it is suggested that such violations be taken into account and the labour oce will be assigned to commit such fines after investigating all the data under discussion. To this matter, Mr. President, I suggest that the case be referred to. The welfare committee and the 2nd Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u52	V.E.G. President. I've liked the middle-classes a lot, and sometimes they hit the nail on the head. But then suddenly they fall into a complete bullshit, which, of course, reflects a bit of what's going on in the community. A job market is called a job market because it's a market. It is based on mutual agreements with mutual support. So, all of a sudden, people have somehow become involved in criminal crimes involving potential committees or debates about the price. Where are we, dear boy? People of the Central Party? There's been some serious crack in this place. What, then, is next? If the employee doesn't pay back his dues, will he be fined? No. If the board is called, it's a right for a person to produce a tractor. That's the penalty for the jubilees. Now, people are going to create some other penalties called government fines. What happened in the Party Room of the Middle Party? That's the big question. Something must have gone wrong there. Classes, people are free not even to be in unions. This is somehow a problem with a traditional workforce, with the rights and responsibilities that humans have there.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u53	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. There was no direct question about it as a dog. A senator had here to present. He's just against the bill, and that's his democratic right, of course. I'd like to mention it here, and I'd like to make sure that the labor movement has called very much after the penalties I've passed in the bill. I also reiterate that much more workers treat their employees well, but unfortunately, there is a certain group that has repeatedly violated employees. Thus, there are no sufficiencys, and many remuneration workers have had to seek their inflated salary through the insistent unions, which are a long, long process. In addition, these resources are natural to be barriers and to have a measure of relief. But I also repeat that the bill makes a special statement, and clearly so. A senator has only skated over the bill, and he has not read it to the end, that this is a case of constant indiscretion. Then these fines are only moderate, from $50,000 a.m. to 5 million. I'm just saying again that this is an important matter that matters to the worker of the country and is a matter of justice. I just have to say, I think that's what. A senator has misunderstood some of the bill, and he should consider it better. But that's his right, and if he doesn't want to back it up, it's his business.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u54	V.E.G. President. There is no misunderstanding or misread on my part. What I'm just talking about is the prince's hand, that they're going to be potential committees - which I know, of course, aren't great and they're just because men can't keep up. It's not like it's a crime. This is just the prince's idea not to create a workforce. The labour market is also made up of people who are just doing their job, not in themselves. Do middleclassmen want to do the woodworks, if they have any committees? I think it's really unthinkable, huh? paritaprevir Þórarinsson. I know exactly what the labor movement has called for. It has called for criminal violence in this market. It's just a quest for free society, dear boy. Senator. Of course, people have to be responsible for all the panels; it doesn't matter whether they're employed, employed, or owner of the company. That's why there's a tow. However, earners, above all else, are assured by taxpayers always to receive their wages. That is not true of everyone else. I know that this bill has been called after, and I even know that the Social Affairs Minister has put a bill on these terms too. It's just as bad. It may well be that no one cares. It's not much of a problem. I'm just talking here about the Prince's Tips. For God's sake, let's not allow the government to somehow surround us and to use the contingency and forced measures in a free labour market.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u55	Mr. President. We may soon agree on this matter, we will. Senator. I just want to reiterate what I said earlier in my speech, that the public, er. Social and child - care minister has just published a report on sectoral social substitution and break-down activities. This is a recent report, beginning in January 2018, that suggests legalizing public authority to intervene when serious breakdowns are introduced and that such sources have a general warning against violations. This is from the Government of Social Affairs as much as any. A senator will likely support that I think, or that in a word perhaps. However, the unions have called for this, the government has concluded, and a report has been made that these matters should be addressed. Here's a good bill with a lot of work to do and call for. I'm telling you, this is a necessary operation. These administrative fines are modest but are indeed prophylaxis. I repeat, more than a part of a professional person treats his staff well, but there are skunks that are repeated and grossly reckless against the paymen. And it's not supposed to be passed on in this society.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u56	V.E.G. President. This is not how I can finish the discussion. Artists here and executives are talking about being called up for this, but no answer is given why it is not only true to everyone in the job market, whether it is contractors or employees, it's just a few professionals. Of course, it doesn't stand in the prince's hand. I can assure you what. Central Party members that if they can't pay their wages, they can't pay the fine. Of course, the most common thing to do is to collect your salary and the requirements of free - free committees like everyone else. Of course, taking out the labour market in this way to the worker alone is a violation of all main princes for a free employment market. When a person uses such terms as a salary theft, subjugation, or anything like that, perhaps even linking it with some sort of disinflication, it is good to recall that any form of deception or fraud is, of course, a penalty. Our laws of conduct see to it that deception and fraud are penalties, and punishment is especially for this. But creating some concept of a salary theft because of the labour market panels is a complete misunderstanding that has grassy in the community. That's why they're making bills like that. And it's called after them of the labor movement, I realize that, but they're just as stupid anyway. I'm warning in general that we are actually criminalizing all human communications, all possible committees. Then we've buried ourselves a deep hole. I challenge men to turn down the bill. It's bad, it's thoughtless, and we've got better things to do, topv. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u57	A respectable president. I measure here for changes in fish management laws, No. 116/2006, and discuss them in-laws. On the case with me, the other half are the members of the Gangs. In this matter, like any other matter we're recommending, is the entire members of the Gangster Party. In 1st. The bill will show up to 4 mg. 13th par. The law says so, by permission of the President: The population in question is counted as: 1st Particles, where one person, or attorney, is directly or indirectly at least 20% of the stock or stock money in the other person or has the corresponding part of the voting rights. The former party is considered a mother's company, and the latter is a daughter's company. 2. Participants, where one member, an individual, or an attorney has the right to appoint more part of the members of the other person, have the authority to make decisions for the individual's interests, on the basis of agreement or authority to commit to the other person, may, in the power of their vote, prevent other proposals from accepting despite the support of other votes, such as the requirement for mutual votes. The same is true if the patient is associated with the patient's disease course. Number 1 or 3. has the same authority as the one mentioned in paragraph 1. 3. Legislators - and I'm still talking about what belongs to a linked party - to such a person or to the same members, individuals or lawyers, or contacts at the same time. 1 or 2. count, holding more than 20% of the share money, stock money or voting rights in both or all the lawyers end up with each individual holding object at least 5% of the stock, stock money or the vote number in the relevant legislation. The same is true if the person or party, persons or persons or lawyers, or those associated with 1 or 2. a number. which owns the stock, stock or voting rights in the legislature, including the relevant terms of stocks, stocks or voting rights in other legislations. 4. For the property and voting rights of individuals in law. 1,◯3. a number. Also considered as part of the partner's property and voting rights, relatives and spouses in front of the bone or other sides and members that are related in the same way by adoption. 2.g. The bill reads, with President's permission: ▪ Instead of ▪10% in case 3rd. 1.mg. 14th par. The law comes in: 5%. Section 3. After the 14th. The law's coming up with a new branch, Section 4. a, as follows: A fish lab can demand individual companies, business groups and organisations to which this law applies to all the information necessary to consider the individual issues. Information can be demanded orally or in writing and should be given within the appropriate amount of time established by the Agency. A fishing room can have the same conditions as in 1st. The need to obtain data for observation. Let them deliver within the appropriate time set by the Agency. In their work, a fishing agency may demand information and information from other governments, including competitive authorities, tax authorities, and tax authorities, regardless of their confidentiality. A fishing room can also place a obligation on members of 1st. to regularly inform the Agency about relevant issues in the implementation of these laws. A fishing room can give such instructions by public announcement. In the course of action, the legal requirements for the treatment of the criminal body should be followed for evaluation and maintenance. A fish lab can make needed observations at the company's work station and organization and lay down data when there are compelling reasons to believe that these laws or laws have been violated by the government. Section 4. This law goes into effect on January 1, 2022. According to a bill report, this bill was previously submitted to the 150th legislature Council of 453. It's amazing that things did not work out. It's quite remarkable that we don't want to build up and strengthen the fish lab for our surveillance clearances, that we don't want to prevent further compression on our resources, and that they will accumulate on the few hands as we have seen, and that evolution has been. Of course, no one has been overlooked and, of course, by the least of the stakeholders employed here. To ensure effective competition and support the collection of data on a few hands, there are laws on the control of fish fishing regulations that require that the combined stock department of linked parties not exceed a given ratio of total resources. It is important to ensure active competition for fishing. Active fishing competition contributes to greater protection of consumers and employee as well as better resource use. The fish stocks of Iceland are one of the nation's major resources, so it is important to ensure access to that resource will not be collected on a few hands, as I have mentioned before. The current legislation is about a wide range of problems when it comes to definitions of stakeholders and monitoring warrants for Fish Institutes are significantly limited compared with other monitoring authorities. A report on the activities of the Fish Room included a reexamination of the Kingdom Ministry. up to the fact that a fish lab does not know whether there is a definite and regular link, it is totally relying on the resources of the hands. It also stated that the Fishing Room believed that it was really impossible to determine whether a relationship was due to an actual authority to which the law was too estimating. This bill, a respected president, suggests some changes that aim to further explain whether there is a link between parties, and to support the monitoring warrants of a fish lab, as there is no shortage, so that the Agency can investigate in a reasonable way whether there is a link between parties. If the bill is approved, the Fishing Room will be able to monitor the development of resources too much and take action if so. Thus it will be better to ensure that the nation's resources do not gather on few hands with associated negative consequences to society. A respectable president. Here, I'm just going to look at some special articles in the bill. ▪ 1st. are provided with a change of 1,◯3. a number. 4 mg. 13th par. the law on the control of fish that deals with the definition of what is linked to them. In paragraph 1. 4 mg. 13th par. The law states that if a person owns more part or has more voting rights in another person, there is a link between parties. This ratio is suggested to be moved down to 20%. If I remember correctly, that ratio is now close to 50%. Number two. 4 mg. 13th par. The law says that if someone has real authority over another, there is a relationship between parties. Because the law does not define what is really in control, the Fishing Room has concluded that the law is really defective. In comment, we start with what became the law No. 27/1998, and first discussing the compression of market sources, said of the term: 'The Athenians can have a crucial impact on business and legislators in various ways, thereby exercising real control over the legislator.' In paragraph 1. are listed as cases that will automatically lead to a person's having authority over another person. Under number 2. in effect, each form of authority is not listed in paragraph 1. to give one party a major impact on the business and control of another person. For example, the right person to mention more than half of the legal bodies or the right of one person to direct the operation of another person. The latter, for example, takes the case when decisions need to be made in agreement, as well as those on a smaller part of the voting rights may, in fact, have a decisive effect. It's obviously completely contradictory. Instead, think of a situation in which a person has such a strong agreement with another person that he or she is actually in charge, such as the agreement on the use or disposition of the individual property, the agreement on the exclusive right to use the entire stock or contract of the stockholders, or those who can have a major impact on the decision of the party. It is suggested that the events considered there should be defined in paragraph 2. 4 mg. So that they do not make it appear strongly that they have real authority. In number 3. 4 mg. 13th par. The law discusses the time of contact if more than one person is involved in more than one legal entity. The scale is not changed to the base but changes in attribute ratio and percentages are made according to the changes made in Figure 1. 4 mg. 13th par. That concludes verse 3. The same rule is replaced by a new number. We are now discussing family ties in the final part of verse 3. 4 mg. 13th par. The law, but it is proper to discuss such relationships in a special number, which does not apply merely to a linking point. Number 3. and related relationship to CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 and CYP3A4 Figures 1 and 2. Then the rule is extended according to proper guidelines in other areas, such as the proper rules of government law, the appropriate rules of judges, and other comparable rules. Thus, there is now a link between more relatives than those associated with bone legs. About 2. The bill says, with President's permission: 1st. 14th par. The law of law, by the way. In order to provide regular information on the ownership of all those with 10% or more shareholders, stockholders, or voting rights in the relevant legislation. That ratio is corresponding to the number currently shown in Figure 3. 4 mg. 13th par. The law. It is therefore suggested that the proportion of the changes proposed to the 3rd count be reduced accordingly. 4 mg. 13th par. from 10% down to 5%. About Section 3. In support of the surveillance warrants for the Fish Room, it is suggested that we follow Article 14. Come up with a new article that will provide up-to-date surveillance clearances and range 19 and 20. Is It Out? No. 44/2005, report to the Contestance Control. A study on the link between certain individuals and legislators and other studies on the basis of a fish management law has been conducted in a number of similar competitiveness studies to whether companies are in the market and whether companies have violated the rules of the rules of the marketing Council. Therefore, it is wise to give a fishing lab comparable clearance to that of the law. A respectable president. Code four. does not really need further explanations. This is a social appeal. We're here talking about our sea resources. We're talking about authority over her. We're talking about how we've seen through the times of compression, and this has come to a few hands. For example, in the last eight years, the resource supply of our sea resources has returned about 400 billion dollars. in direct cash in the pocket of those who have access to the resource. Then, with President's permission, it may be all right to ask, "What's a resource talent? That is, in fact, what is left when it pays all the cost it will come from having to fetch the fish from the sea; oil, packaging, boats, hold, pay, everything. The remainder is the resource fent. In the last eight years, it has usually been no less than 50 billion dollars. It's about time we made it clear. There is reason to explain the entire legal base around those people who have access to our resource. The bill for changing the fish - controlled law is a good step in that direction. I wish I could control everything and wish that the government and the nation could get only half of their resources for them. But it's late, Mr. Honorable President. We'll bring it next time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-24-59.u58	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a resolution of a four-year strategy for the benefit of consumers in the years 2022/2025. With me, this case is open to you. The members of Bjölblán the Leví of Gunnarsson, Sæland Góland, Oddný G.; Harðardóttir, Willum Þór Þórsson, and Þorsteinn Sæmundsson. The interpretation proposal reads, with president's permission: In line with the following two main goals that guarantee an improved benefit of consumers over the years, the Council of Travel, Industrial, and Neo-creation is to hide the work of consumers in accordance with the following two main goals. The target of a consumer information sharing is three: 1st Necessary education will be increased. 2. Increased emphasis will be placed on sustainable and responsible consumption. 3. Keeping track of prices will be maintained. The targets B for consumer rights are: 1st Rules of due rights will be revised and updated in cooperation with stakeholders, such as the Business and Service Organization, the Neighbours Office. The rules will be presented to consumers and sellers of goods and services. 2. Include special loans on consumer loans under ban. 3. • providing information on financial services to be provided in a clear and accessible way This resolution proposal was first submitted to the 145th legislature and again last year through a change, including By means of a new EU law on consumer judges, No. 81/2019. Is that motion restored here slightly modified and modified, including taking into account the comments under which the matter was being handled during the last assembly. The proposal was originally made by representatives of all members of the Parliament at the General Assembly. The aim is to offer suggestions that aim to improve consumer interests quickly. In the coming years, governments will have to respond to the growing challenges of consumerism, e.g. Internationalisation of the chain of manufacture, which monitors the lips in complex, increasing network stores and violations of consumer rights. In some cases, traders do not know the right consumers, and consumers themselves often do not know their rights. It seems that consumers don't know who to look for when there are differences between them and the sellers. This was shown in a survey made by the State Department in August 2015, which included a question of knowledge regarding differences between the role of the Navitors Institute and the Neighbour Association. The result was striking, but only 18.3% felt that they knew the difference. More than 80% could not distinguish the role of these strains, i.e. that the Nettorium is an official surveillance agency, while the Neythal Society is a free organization. 58.4% said that they would go to the Neythians Association if there was a need for assistance for a compromise with a seller, except for about 18% to the Netotherlands Laboratory. Then, of course, a seller, a lawyer, and so forth. However, according to the consumer card published in 2017 by the European Commission, consumer knowledge had increased here on land since the 2015 survey. A 2019 credit card shows that the knowledge of consumers'rights is by far the best in the country of all European countries, and consumers do not consider them to be worthy of unjust business practices. All of us can say that this is a positive development, but we need to continue to do much better. A consumer clinic is a surveillance agency and its main role is to monitor and monitor consumer rights and safety of products, to monitor trade practices and contribute to market transparency, to supervise legal and practical indicators and to provide information on the market's rights and duties. The consumer organisation is a free organization that has been given counsel to consumers and assist in seeking their rights to a seller. The government has made a service contract with the organization to perform this service, but the contract is only part of the cost of the ministry. The network also plays an important role in the role of consumers who buy services in other European countries through the European consumer support. By strengthening the consumer's neighbourism and complaint services, the rightness of consumers would be greatly improved. It is necessary to provide sufficient funds for the transfer of legal and legal surveillance. It is very important that consumers have confidence in the organization and in the establishments of consumers who can approach them for help. The main change in this matter is that in earlier proposals the aims for the efficient arrangements of consumers and thus the establishment of the new office of consumer agent to the Norwegian role model have been proposed. However, according to his review, the Nytendian Lab tells us that the Norwegian model referred to in the synonym is almost no longer available, and it can be said that consumer surveillance agencies, Norwegian as well as others in the EEA, are now acting on the Icelandic role model. Therefore, the office of an consumer agent is not now proposed. However, we feel that certain items mentioned in earlier proposals are right here because they are important in the growth of consumers. It is necessary for surveillance partners to have adequate authority and thus be able to be very intensively monitored, have rich initiatives for research, and can increase consumer awareness and provide competitive management. An overlap between the activities of the Navigator Lab and other health care providers is needed to form in the consumer shop's work circle. In particular, where there is a law on property loans to consumers, No. 118/2016, and fixing consumer loans, No. 33/2013, is in the hands of the Neighbour Room. Then it can be wondered whether it would be right for those authorities who supervise their consumer activities as well as official surveillance of unfair terms on the terms of contracts, commissions, and invalid legalities and responsible laws. As a result, consider what might be an additive effect between consumer authorities and the taxpayer's office. A detailed work contract is desirable to ensure communication. Of course, when it comes to increasing consumer education, it is so readily available that consumers have an important role in providing NGOs. So it is important that consumers be informed and have skills that enable them to make the best decisions. That means even. that they know their rights, their sense of merit, are locked on marketing and advertising, have financial locks, and know where to look if there is a difference with the segregators. Governments must ensure consumers have access to information and receive the necessary information on consumers. We also feel that there is a need to make practical application of the material available and to ensure proper training at all school levels. In recent years, there has been a lot of talk about financiallocks, perhaps beginning with some force after the 2008 financial collapse. Today we see that young people are stepping forward demanding further instruction on how to do so. However, it is stated in June 2011 that a three - year experiment team was appointed to promote financial education in elementary and higher schools. The group returned a report in 2014. A survey was then conducted among all basic and high school students on financial lock in the spring of 2016. It stated, however, that most schools teach financiallocks, such as basic study files and usually as part of a second but not as a special subject. In February 2018, the Ministry of Education and Culture decided that Iceland would be included in the selective section of the PISA survey in 2021, which turns to financial lock at 15 years of age. But I think it's very important, and it's perfectly obvious, according to our young people today that this needs to be more cared for. Here we are also talking about the increased emphasis on sustainable and responsible consumption. In recent decades we have seen that consumers'attention has become increasingly focused on the responsibility and importance of their being informed about the origin of products, their consumption on the environment in many ways. This has resulted in large increases in production of consumer consumption from developed countries to poorer countries where the cost of production is lower, including due to less pay and less demands on environmental protection and protection. consumers need to be informed how they can affect their choice of goods and services. Happily, we have seen quite a few TV programs for responsible consumption and responsible use. One world goal for the United Nations is the end of responsible production and responsible consumption. Like the government of other countries, the United States is obliged to pursue these goals. No. 12 aims to ensure sustainable consumption and production. Sub-targets include reduced food waste consumption, responsible use, responsible waste management and responsible use of natural resources. All of this has been on the agenda for this government, but of course, we need to keep an eye on this. The government should then have ensured that by the year 2030, the public will be informed and aware of sustainable development. Then, to achieve the aim of increasing emphasis on sustainable and responsible consumption, we offer moving men to set up an task group with the aim of developing a plan for consumer education. This must be done and should be taken into consideration by the above - mentioned global objectives of the United Nations. Then there's information on prices. It is often spoken of as having the right to obtain information on the price of goods and services, and unfortunately, it is very often not well presented in stores. We'll put out a few of our teams: 1st In all the country, members need the resources needed to care for prices. 2. The changes made in the prices of pre-marked foods should be considered acceptable to consumers, but the price of products has to be checked in many places. 3. The price of vegetables and fruits is almost always given as a weight price. Therefore, it is important to ensure that in every store the consumers can see the final price of goods. 4. Parameter prices, i.e. a comparison price, an amount of pounds, a lit or a piece of product, should always be given when appropriate. This is often a failure, and in Sweden, for example, it is a failure. the obligation to provide units of measurement on yellow ground to facilitate the comparison of consumers. Then we feel that the need to reevaluate, update, and introduce due course rules. We've often talked about it in Iceland that especially when it comes to Christmas shopping, sales, and such things are often complained that they can't be returned because the sales have started so early and the shops refuse to take over unless they're even on sale. By the year 2000, 21 years ago, the current Ministry of Business issued a paper on duets. It is, in fact, there. Talk about: The consumer should return at least 14 days. A product marked with a donor logo makes boxing unnecessary on dialysis. In-use echoes should be made at the original price of product. A letter has value for up to four years from version date and introductory notes for up to four years. The right to return the sale only if it has been negotiated. That's what we're going to stress, for example. that a letter of gift has at least The four-year ending is the normal expiration time. In the state of California, e.g. It's not allowed to set the time on a gift letter. A respectable president. My time is running out. I'm just gonna put on the last two things that the proposal is going on. We want damages at the consumer loans to be checked, i.e. whether the cost of borrowing should be included in interest of interest paid by the consumer. We believe that it would be most accessible to consumers if the cost of filing or other similar factors was reflected in the interest cost of the loan, as consumer loans should grow. In this, we are primarily talking about terms of fees and other fees that the consumer needs to pay his creditors on the basis of a loan agreement. The cost of borrowing is usually a fixed relative number regardless of the financial value, and it does not reflect the actual cost of borrowing. Whether credit is 1 billion or less, you can wonder whether the documentmaking and the management that the cost should cover the cost. K. 15 million. K. In April 2013, a report published by Nite Owl Protection Agency concluded that banks, an apartment loan fund, now a Homological and Human Resource Institute, and other consumer loans need to be in accordance with the consumer's information rights to explain precisely the cost of loan costs and the premise that the cost is dependent on money. We also want to set up a controlled financial view, i.e. A website where information on financial services is provided in a clear and accessible way. We have some of these information, such as mortgages, map services, and savings. But it has to be done even better, and now that there is a time for great innovation, and much has been put into it, I encourage all those who consider some of these to consider making this service even better. A respectable president. I've finished my case.
