ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u1	The president wants, in view of the approval of the U.S. Marshal of the Council and the role of the Commission to make a suggestion there, reports that February 18 is the case. A letter received from the U.S. Marshal, Tryggvi Gunnarsson, a release from the office of the Allied agent from May 1st. The letter of an agent was presented to the Trustee's Committee for Presidency and has been agreed to his request for release since May 1. The president would like to use this opportunity to thank Tryggvi Gunnarsson for his work in the office of the emissary of the Generals, who has served it for the past over two decades. It is the law under the role of the Trustee's Committee for Presidency of the Generals to make a suggestion to the General for an individual in the office of an agent. The Presidency Committee has begun work on that process, with the intention of appointing a three-man body of men from its group to prepare proposals for the Presidency of an individual as a vote in the office of the Council of II. At the same time, in the coming days, the Presidency Committee will appoint three experts who will be the Subcommittee and the Presidency Committee for Counseling. A further announcement will also be published on the Generals' website for a proposed vote in the office of the agent. It will show that those interested in being nominated at office election can send a letter on this subject to the Council for the specified date. Furthermore, those who wish to do so can send down tips to the prime committee on an individual or on individuals whom they well consider to be in position to be in service.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u2	To answer, financial and economic ministers, marine and agricultural ministers, and tourism, industrial and innovation ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u3	Mr. President. Of course, there is no need for ever so many to know that there is an enormous amount of interest in getting the highest price for the wealth it catches from our common and limited resources. And not just for them but for the sailors get a higher salary, the ports of the country increase their income, the farms higher their response, and the state's wealth of higher income taxes and higher fishing costs. This enables us to run a good society here, and it is not now possible for us to survive in these critical times. In March 2019, numbers from the Department of Price Service showed that the average Icelandic vessels that sold coal to melt were 25 nudges. 36 K. ... byNorishships. What is equally interesting is that the fishing took place at the same time, from the same swarm that was purchased in the same factory, on the same day. Now it's got the highest. I suppose a seafaring minister would be shocked to see this, and he would immediately look at what was going on and have plenty of time to digest things. Now I beg him, please, to inform the council of what his opinion revealed. How can he explain the 45% price difference, and what work has he started to keep track of these items in the future? Will he, for example. observe if a similar picture is drawing up about the blessed hairy fishing business again? I remind him, when he answers that question, that huge interests are at stake for society all.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u4	A respectable president. Thank you. The foreman of the query and its contents. I believe that we are reasonably stable men in their midst and will not react to many of the news coming from our ears. However, the differences, especially in the open waters, between prices between these common fish stocks, which are coal, herring, and hairy, have been striking in many cases. The mission of the Ministry in these subjects was to set up a joint Norwegian price project in the up-to-dates of the North Atlantic. The results of that task have not yet entered my level. The person leading this assignment is DIi Monst Kristófersson. He's in charge of the Norwegian joint work in this field, and hopefully something will come out of it. I've heard some explanations about this from an Icelandic company, like a what. Similarly, a senator has listened. They give evidence of their worthiness and these differences. I have no place like someone else to sit in some court seat for that distinction or to tell how it stands. People just produce their numbers, their reasons, we know it, part-change systems vary from country to country, etc. That's why I thought it was right in the position that came up, as the above correctly mentioned in the words at any given time. A senator, 2019, was trying to cover a larger area in the controlled areas that would need to be conducted, and this would be done in some objective way. Sadly, though, I have not yet come to the conclusion of that work.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u5	Mr. President. It's right next to the highest. Ministers that we are well-adjusted men, and usually we take things with coolness. But you are certainly shocked when you see such numbers knowing that 27,000 people are out of work in Iceland, and they draw out their lives in a difficult way, and a government fund has to be paid a great price to keep things going around here in the community. How much more so those crowns would be if the difference is not what can be called normal! That is why it would be desirable to have the highest order. A secular minister would resolve to call for explanations; this would be of great importance to us. It's coming through, for example. News of the fact that 220 bucks are being paid. for the fur from the Norwegian ships, but evidence suggests that they may be twice as low in Icelandic ships. Will this be followed? Will this be considered, and will it be appropriate because it is the same party to buy it?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u6	A respectable president. I'd like to state immediately that the price of fishing is not publicized, but government custody is not about to determine the price in this business. There are fishermen and builders who cooperate on this, and that has even been true of them. We've got a living room, and we're trying to bring you together, draw out information, etc. There is a government device in these matters. However, these are free contracts between sailors and funerals. Like I say, we have no choice. We have no intervention in this free contract. I agree with that. A senator is glad that the seave has returned to hunt and returns valuables into the land we have not seen in the fur for three years; enormous value below. But the price is free, just to be said. There is no intervention.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u7	She needs to be normal. That's what I'm doing...
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u8	I agree that she needs to be normal and I haven't been doing... [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] That's a follow-up, huh? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u9	A respectable president. Comments we raise money, the government's poster, say that the debt of state funds has increased by 45 billion, in its own records, in the last year because of changes in gangs. In the past year, about 13% collapsed, and no other currency in Europe has collapsed, like the crown of this virus. That's 45 billion for taxation on the public and company. When the crisis hit, the Council Bank promised that a government fund would have access to domestic loans that could be afforded. It supported the restoration. On the other hand, the government decided to take on a foreign loan of 600 billion. Thus, the crisis is financed by foreign loans and high safety risks. Other nations will avoid doing so under these circumstances. In order for foreign loans to succeed, economic growth must be greater than growth and safety. Although the interest rate is 0, there is 1% or approximately, concomitant with high risk of success, and we have never experienced a timeline in the Icelandic economy that has been free of a high risk. I assume this has been discussed in the government. I also assume that a government risk assessment has been put in place, and that risk assessment will also be put before the council. I suppose there's an assessment of the risk of foreign loans for the taxpayers, for the homes and the welfare system, and there's also the risk for our export workers if they should then use the currency reserve to maintain their walk. After a collapse, it was said that it was a poisonous cocktail that people who have taken foreign loans but made money in Icelandic dollars. It even led to that. That the Council might forbid such things. But now a government fund decides to do exactly this, to take a foreign loan, but to let the taxpayers sit on the risk. Business unions have including the U.S. Have serious doubts as to whether economic growth will rise above the weight of interest. So I want to ask the highest. Financial Minister: Does he believe that he is the basis for now reevaluating the budget of state funds? [[The president calls.]] Second, when does the General get access to a government risk assessment that I expect was made because of this 600 billion loans?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u10	A respectable president. There are many reasons for me to respond because some of the things that were said don't put things in proper perspective. The state owes in foreign currency, but the State also owns a large fund of foreign currency at the Federal Bank. Part of the country's currency reserves are the government's holdings in foreign currency centers at the Federal Bank. Right away. According to one senator, our debt grew because of changes in gangs, she lets go of mentioning that our holdings in the Secret Bank of foreign currency have gone up, and another currency supply of the Federal Bank has gone up. That is why it is wrong. According to one U.S. senator, some 45 billion additional burdens were laid on Icelandic taxpayers. It's just wrong. At best, some conclusion could be squeezed out about one tenth of that amount. One tenth, which is the difference between the change in property status and the debt, would be what we should be doing here. There is no money to worry about. I believe that we have achieved tremendous success, and the market has been the same with us, showing how we are going to finance our naps. This is reflected in the successful editions of the Icelandic state, both in foreign markets and in the local and international markets, and the benefits we have now received in the last foreign borrowing are the best that the Icelandic government has ever received. That's a good label for the plan we've put together. Of course, a new budget will be submitted to the council this spring. In my second answer, I'll get into a little bit more of the way I think it will. A senator simply misjudges the risk of foreign borrowing the State in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u11	A respectable president. It is proper to think that for a virus, the government fund had become insurmountable. At that time, the income was less than the government's expenses, just to be said and maintained. It remains that foreign creditors have confidence in the wealth of government. That does not mean their trust in the currency, far from it. And what is it that a treasure can do? Among other things, tax pay, tax laws, tax laws, public opinion. It knows foreign lenders. Hence, they have confidence that the Kingdom will then go on old - fashioned paths. I call attention to the fact that the minister of finance is not yet responding to the question of risk assessment as a result of this conversion. It is quite different to lend a loan to the state of our country's funds at our national welfare agency here in Iceland than to give a cab and go over to 600 billion foreign loans without having been discussed and the risks being weighed for our homes, the risks to our companies and our welfare system. [[The president calls.]] I don't understand. I don't believe anything else in the light of the experience that we have to learn from and face but that the government has made a risk assessment. We haven't seen this risk assessment from the government. The government must have made a risk assessment. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. The president should know best, and he should be careful, and we should have transparency when it comes to such matters. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u12	A respectable president. We have made no risk assessment for 600 billion foreign loans because we do not plan for 600 billion new foreign loans. It's just someone talking like that. A senator has found himself. A foreign loan of 600 billion due to the exchange of state funds has not been offered. [[Up front.]] We, however, need to make foreign donations in order to reimburse older foreign loans. After foreign loans, there is a trust fund in the Federal Bank. There are euros at the Sensitors Bank. It's some kind of misunderstanding. I believe, however, that it is very important to take up a discussion about the risks that can develop when a person finances a domestic bank with a foreign loan. It is absolutely true that we have a change of direction in this regard, just not in the range of urgency. There is a senator. On the other hand, if we look through the institutions and look at the state funds and the Secret Bank together and realize that there is no logical need to turn all the currency into Icelandic dollars, but in Euros in the Federal Bank it can be stored, it will never really be a problem, not for the Icelandic national company.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u13	A respectable president. February 16th. said the highest. Secretary of finance to me in unsubstantiated requests that we should be proud, as well, of an incredibly powerful social security system. Pride for what in this system? Or that the worst of them were taxes and chain - lines that were reduced to poverty? Pride that it's only $25,000. A pension-employment market and a 45% reduction in the pensions after taxes? Forty-five percent of the workaholics are down in 100,000 bucks. free income goal? Or are you proud of the chain - carrying declines in the ideal microorganism that often lead a large number of them into an acute state of poverty? Then it was the highest. Secretary of the budget also proud that since 2015 the provision of those who accept tax benefits from social security would increase by 25% on average. Proud of their increase from 200,000 K. a month before taxation to $250,000. No, the pension's at 266,000. So that's a 25%, a hell of a rise. At the same time, members of Congress pay with a similar increase of some 250,000. or the same amount of money that the others will survive, just the rise. It's the highest. Secretary of the budget is really proud of that? 266,000. is a pension today, and if you have a decrease in farms, you'll have a hundred percent in exchange for a dollar in all your income after that. Is this a system for being proud?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u14	A respectable president. I believe there is every reason for us to be very proud of the enormously powerful social security network in Iceland where we put out more than 10% of all the government funds to support people who don't have enough between their hands. It is an immense system that has been developing in the right direction. The increase as a dog. In recent years, a senator has lost tens of billions of dollars, approximately tens of thousands of dollars. 30 billion, just in the pension system - 30 billion annual increases from 2015 to 2015. So, yes, I think we should be proud of it. Can we do better? Yes, we can do better, but for that, the right basis must be there. To be able to stand up for all these people, we must make something of value. There is no default when people have completed their careers, based on the existence of pension rights, that we have just a safety net that grabs all and ensures support in a way that the system does today when many employees have not been able to earn the pension rights. It's a long way from being default. I'll have to say, because of what. A senator uses an outstanding example of a certain amount of money: There are very few individuals who are in that position. A senator used to describe the system as a whole. It can easily be seen if you want to look at it in a broader context. When we discuss these matters, I sometimes think of myself visiting my Danish colleague, the Danish minister of finance. He was tempted on his desk was a sign that said red letters on a white foundation, so I mean, in Icelandic: where should the money come from? Right now we're running a government fund with over 300 billion angles. Hv. A senator speaks of it as some measure of scandal that we do not add tens of thousands of others to our efforts. But the problem is just one thing, what? Senator, this is just what we are here: We do not make enough money to meet such needs and such expectations.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u15	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance answered. He himself said: "There are only a handful of people who live on these lowest items, and they don't have a knife and spoon. Then why are they not helped? He says: There is no money. Where's the money? In the pension fund. We at Floki's just working on a bill to tax payment into the pension fund. Thus 100 billion can be achieved. The pension system already has $31,000 billion of tax money, money that could be used in this system. It's just money in the woods, not in the hand. We saw in the collapse of the bank that this money can disappear. It is quite amazing that at the same time, we allow it to be abducted with this 6,000 billion market, which has become too high, but rather than take the tax money from it and use it for the people who have already paid it and have it in themselves, instead of taxing it and cutting it up to 80 to 50.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u16	A respectable president. I'd like to state that the group that has been least able to get a big deal with a bill as the highest. Department of Social Affairs introduced and legalized during this terms. There we looked especially at those who had been remembered. Actually, we again took up a kind of special extension that had previously been inserted into the improvements. Hv. A senator here brings up an ancient idea, which I thought at the time we should consider, which was moving in a time taxation of pension income. But we survived in the midst of severe economic hardships without doing so, and I believe we should continue to build on the same methodology, i.e. to keep these tax revenues inside the pension system and then to have them as future income of a government fund. Of course, that is an enormous amount of strength. It is money that will not be used twice. If we take them to heart now to solve such problems, it would be a monofocal operation that we would be doing at the expense of the future state funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u17	Mr. President. On the roof. 498, 166th case, is the highest answer. Financial and economic secretary to ask from the person here for the buyers the most important property of the Bank and the bank-related members. In short, the answer is nothing. It says here, quoting a Senate law, that members of Congress can ask questions about public matters. So here's what it says, by permission of the President: The information available to the queries is not available in the Ministry or its institutions. Landsbank Corp. and linked enterprises are not government institutions or administration organisations or public services in the sense of the above laws. - That. Either by law, by administration or by contract. So there is no answer to this, and it is said that the Ministry does not possess this information itself. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he intends to seek this information as the head of the bank and the representative of the bank's owners. Number two: The homepage of the Land Bank summarises general and specific objectives of the Land Bank Corp. That includes, on page 26. 7 Talk about community responsibility. I can't see any better than in this contract, there's a recommendation to Iceland's National Bank on how to conduct his work. So, first of all, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he is going to seek this information as a representative of the owners and elsewhere, because this answer doesn't hold an opinion and it doesn't pass the law, I'm going to ask the highest court. A minister whether he intends to make a decision that the person here will find the answer to this very important and just question.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u18	A respectable president. First, I'd like to say that I am a spokesman for that as everyone's most transparent state, not only in the administration but also in public companies and associates. It is in my department that we are not in a position to demand that this information be given to us. But the rules on these matters include: Set here at General Assembly, financial regulations in general. The foundation of the government's ownership of the Lands Bank is laid here at the council. I'm not going to go out on long cups of the only correct legal result in this opinion. I'm just going to say that I don't want to be a spokesman for holding back the information that the council considers important, and of course, the council has a great opportunity to influence access to information like this, as long as there are no major contradictions in the individual laws so that the aims conflict. I have to say no that I will continue to test whether we can demand the information to get to us in order to get it to the council. I can only stand by the answer to the council. On the other hand, if that's the case, it's right next door. A senator that it is the wrong legal conclusion that the information is not available then must be taken back into account.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u19	Mr. President. I have never objected to taking the matter back up and asking this inquiry again. Not long ago, I received an answer about the comparable property of an apartment loan fund in three years. Ministers who arrived there, according to a memo published by Aldulis chief of law, were to compromise the laws of Congress and the laws on the right of the minister. Now I know the highest. Secretary of finance to be a good boy, so I'm not going to go that way. I reiterate it to the highest. Minister, to bear in mind this agreement, which is here in this pit, about the operation of Iceland's National Bank, a national property, that this information will be gained. All I trust is that a minister of finance will be my sponsor in the fact that this information will be submitted, of course.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u20	A respectable president. I have a lot of respect for what I do. A senator believes that this information should be more readily available to him. However, this is the Ministry investigation. I will just consider this to be an encouragement to ask myself, " Is the law on this subject too narrow and respond to it? '
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u21	Madam President. In view of the situation in the tourism industry and the film industry because of the Covid-19 and the huge and intensive action on the border, there have been ideas on how to save what may be saved in this industry. We've seen a number of local statistics over the pandemic, and unemployment is growing tremendously. It is very important to increase the number of job instruments immediately. There are tremendous opportunities for the situation, especially regarding the arrival of foreign films and TV producers. Iceland is now faced with opportunities never before to attract foreign producers and foreign major projects, thanks to the success of the nation in preventing disease. V.E.G. At the end of the last year, local government and transport minister said that there was an opportunity to further support the country's films and raise the reimbursement of production costs to 35% from 25%. Recently, the highest level of activity was laid. Education and cultural minister for the new long-term film policy for Iceland. It aims to make the production of film into the fourth foundation of the Icelandic economy. Clearly, the tourism industry will remain in the paralysis of Covid-19, and unemployment continues to increase with the related costs for the state's funds. A foreign film project could bring a fortune to the state and create a number of jobs within a short period of time. I'd like to ask you: It is not important for a minister of her Ministry to help create jobs like these that would have an upbuilding effect on tourism, and it does not consider it logical to follow a new movie policy at the top. A minister of education in this way? [[The president calls.]] There's a lot of parishion in this. We're talking about billions of people coming into the economy and streaming around here before a few refunds come.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u22	Mr. President. I'm gonna start by saying I agree. A senator that there is a huge opportunity in the film sector here on the country, on foreign projects, and more quality on national projects as well. Yet, the film industry is in good places. There is a bright future, and there has been great growth. Only last year, we were estimating. If we watch the reimbursement system, growing funds are leaving the system, which means that we're going to be more concerned because there's a ratio of the activities we're going to have here. The fact is, our reimbursement system, which is what really matters and that puts us on the map primarily, although we have powerful people and beautiful nature that also has an influence, is very competitive. I myself went on a business trip just before Covid, in February last year, and visited all sorts of people who in different ways come up with these projects, and they all agreed that our system was competitive. It's efficient, it's simple. We actually have all the cost of production below, and that is what really matters. The Kingdom will then do its part by repaying rapidly and effectively, which is not the situation everywhere else. What we need here is to form a new studio. I'm not suggesting that the state make such an investment. But I want the film industry to believe in the future in this way and to see that it is a good business opportunity to make such investments. You're right next door. A senator's decision is that they saw some Icelandic material, music videos, films, or other factors, and so on. We have a special group of work at work, and it is a question of whether we should consider a stepway in these areas, i.e. if your activity reaches a point and becomes greater, there is a chance that you may be more inclined to encourage a larger proportion of projects to be taken up here or contracts made over a longer period of time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u23	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers who are only partially correct may answer. It's wrong Iceland is competitive in this business. This is wrong, and it becomes evident when we are losing a large foreign assignment, even a field of history in Iceland. We're just losing them in those words, so it's not right for Iceland to be competitive. We are losing jobs in Britain, Ireland, and other countries that can identify opportunities that are right now because of Covid. Nations that are heavily relying on tourism are doing exactly this way and are taking away the big opportunities and projects. The system's good, like the highest. Minister says, and has done very well. But a temporary rise in the reimbursement to 35% would increase Iceland's competitive prenup and increase the likelihood that we will be able to download these projects. As it is now, we are losing those opportunities. I would like to ask: Is the Minister's plans to work in the government business to promote reimburse filming even now, and we don't lose any more big projects? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's bloody. It's awful, and it's gonna have to go up right now. [[The president calls.]] It's a respected president, or it's obvious in Icelandic.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u24	Whether the situation is worse than that or when the talk period is very advanced, we should not conclude that it is worse.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u25	Mr. President. With all due respect, the business shows us that our system is competitive. Hv. A senator said that there would be a big increase in Iceland's competitive prenup, and she is likely to say that we have a competitive prelude, just as the situation is today. It is also a responsibility when we have an abundance of Italian systems to be sure that we can discern where the line is. That's why I say, "It says in a movie policy, "to examine the system for competitiveness. " That's exactly what we're doing, so we're clearly following the policy in this regard. There was tremendous growth in this last year. I'm talking about 35% and I'm just asking, "Why not 50% or 55%?" Of course, the greater the appeals of certain sectors, the more favorable they will be. We have a competitive system. That's the situation. We've got it. It shows the numbers, it shows the business. We need a new studio, there's the threshold. [[The president calls.]] The work we're doing right now also goes on to see that we have this stepway, i.e. that if the project is of such size degree, with a total amount of money or a longer period of contracts, it is the very point that should be considered, whether to go further into reimbursement. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u26	Mr. President. During many conferences, members of the VG, with the support of the United States, Pirata, and the advance, have presented a matter of Congress on the separation of business banking and investment banking. The first number of transporters has been the highest. The current president of the council and the highest. Prime Minister, last four years ago. Like the rest of the financial system, they have changed their mind and appear to be controlled by the Independence Party. The body makes changes in terms of separation, and separateness is only to prevent the public from taking risks of reckless financial investments. However, 15% of the private database covering status, as the bill assumes, does not matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u27	Mr. President. This is where we vote for a bill based on the many years'work of experts, it's a 2017 service group. Secretary of finance, this is a financial committee that produced 2018, and then it's the White Book that came out, and we discussed here in detail. Furthermore, we have made radical changes in the security of the Icelandic financial system. The situation today is much different from what it was four years ago, much less 10◯12 years ago. A wise, balanced change is being made to limit risks in the Icelandic financial system, but it will not lead to that, like some existing changes, that the costs of the public, households, and businesses of the financial system will be increased.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u28	V.E.G. President. For a long time, we have been talking about drawing lines, separating investment banking, and business banking. Increased risk calls for extra money. This requirement, together with a number of other changes in order, has reduced risks and increases in security and financial stability. When considering separation, we need to weigh the economic rationale, divide between, without disrupting the current financial functions and the market role. The export announced on the bill is considered reasonable and beyond the so - called no - no route. The percentage route suggested in the bill, and the more part of it a.m. The Economic and Business Committee suggests that we agree with one another, is considered reasonable and is based on the results of the White Books on the financial system. Prior to that, financial and economic minister had appointed a group of workers who gave a very clear report and recommended this route. As a result, we're supporting the way you put it here, a relative of 15% of your financial resources, as most of the items suggest, unchanged.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u29	Mr. President. Here we are making an important change in the environment of Icelandic financial companies. We are part understanding of investment banking and business banking. A lot of work has been done on the side of this bill, and the White Book points to this way that most of it suggests. It is important to take this step. This will be important for the Icelandic financial system and for the left green support of this change.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u30	A respectable president. Investment banks are not meant to be financed by public deposit and savings. Here we will see which categories support separating the activities of investment banks and business banks. The risk of lying where it is taken. The work of banks is taking over the savings of the public and its fruits and then selling money to the public in order to care for the basic needs of their homes, the basic needs of their families. It is by nature anything but the activity of an investment bank where risks are taken and a great profit can develop but also a great loss. Falling is a loss where it is decided.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u31	A respectable president. We're here to vote on a very big case, a case that may have come on a very tight schedule when our big banks ran out over a decade ago. We are still dealing with the serious situation that happened, but in the meantime, we have made fundamental changes. We have already put depositors, those who deposit money in the banks to keep them there, under cover. In fact, much too little has been discussed and is too small to explain how Iceland cleared the way for the whole of Europe by giving deep priority to the property of old banks. Then we set up a rule, and then all Europe followed. With the priority of problems and other steps that have been taken to prevent risks that can be transmitted to users, we have already responded. It's just one more step, a more careful step and a reasonable conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u32	Mr. President. It's a good thing to do. On the other hand, we feel that we should be careful about this. We referred to the above - mentioned experts and their work, but they suggested that the ratio of our talks be between 10 and 15 percent. We think it's right to be cautious and to choose the lower option. That's why we're making a 10 percent choice. At the same time, we propose a preliminary directive that the ratio will be revised in four years. I think it's the wisest thing to do. It's safe, and I think we should be there on the bank business.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u33	Mr. President. It's a pleasure if we want to be in the lead among European countries in banking trade, and I think that we have an excellent chance to do that. It is not unusual for investments to seek out risky purchases and advantages to make people and businesses a means of profit. But is it not reasonable for them to be responsible, and those who place money in it instead of letting the common people with their usual loans or savings, and even government funds, eventually carry the cost? We have this clear possibility to understand even more between business banking and investment banking, and I think we should.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u34	Mr. President. These adjustment proposals and changes made by the United States are about the separation of investment banking and business banking. The Icelandic bank market has a low-level competition. Separation provides a more desirable competition and simple rulework for investment banking. However, behind risky investments, if this proposal is approved, the board will not be borrowing to the disaster, and the risks remain for those who take it, not for the common people. However, the government will always run for a bank game, which, like all three systematicly important banks, is financed by loans. That's why there's a suggestion for separation so important.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u35	Mr. President. I can't support an adjustment proposal to the votes here, and the reason is simple in itself. If it is approved, I propose that the practicality of the Icelandic financial system will be much smaller than it is today. And what does that mean, topv. President? This means an increase in cost to an Icelandic home. We can liken it to extra taxes in Icelandic homes, and it will also mean an increase in the cost of an Icelandic company, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, in which the Icelandic big business, which may be small on a global scale,, has the opportunity to obtain financial resources, services, and financial resources for foreign banks. It is wrong to put the standards of good faith in the United States, but the result is that Icelandic homes and Icelandic companies are sitting very badly behind them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u36	Mr. President. In the direction of the left movement, a green supply says, by permission of the president: The work of banks has to be divided into business and investments, and in domestic and foreign activities. The members of the Party now have the opportunity to follow that course of theirs and vote with our proposal in the United States and not to accept this pseudo vigour party. It is clear that this bill, which includes the limitations of direct and indirect positions, does not make any difference to the sum of the bank's personal expenses due to the execution of the bank. So high a roof will not make any difference, as shown in a paper with the bill, the status rate of the large banks was 3 4.35% at the end of 2019.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u37	Mr. President. It is not true that there will be increased expense for customers but that separation of investment banking and business banks will be involved. Investment banking does not have to have as much restrictions as a business bank that handles public deposit and savings. In any case, Mr. President, the cost would be much smaller. But if the reckless investments of business banks were to fail, the cost would come upon us, such as the case proved by a major economic collapse and trouble following the collapse of a bank. This activity must be separated if we really want to protect the public from falling and further risks.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u38	Mr. President. I just want to reiterate what these suggestions are all about. The first number is about taking the ratio in 10% instead of the 15% that the greater part suggests. It is within the range recommended by the experts. It's a more cautious step, and we think it's wise to take care to get to the ground. The following will be given, and I will mention it now, provisional regulations that require this rate to be revised within four years.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u39	Mr. President. It is a joy to see the support that is being shown here in this positive and positive step that we are taking to ensure even more fully the goal that the risks of the banking system do not take on the public. I am following this 300 - page report, which covers much of the work that has been done in the past decade to achieve the aim of making the financial system safer, more sustainable, and to ensure the benefit of the public. This case, of course not in that report, since we're just finishing it now, is yet another positive step based on a measure of caution and achieves the goal of reducing the risk of investment banking. That's why I'm saying yes to this article, and yes to this case, because that's a good thing. And it seems to me that the vast majority of the United States of Congress agree with me on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u40	Mr. President. This 15% roof on the position will be of no importance, but there is no need to disagree. But it's just something that's nothing. These are not limits or divorces between investment banking and business banking, but they are harmless. But it will not take care of everything that is possible to do in the name of investment banking through loans and with Iceland's Secret Bank as a lender for success. It is virtual, and nothing else and to atone for those in the management team who have spoken for the separation of business banking and investment banking, harmless virtualness.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u41	Mr. President. We've agreed to what percentage fell into this, which was 15%. This proposal remains that within four years this will be reconsidered. I think it's very wise to have such a revision principle and to strongly encourage a body of Congress to agree with it so that, in the light of experience, we can raise it, drop it, or decompose it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u42	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister of Health, Svandís of Svavarsdóttir, for taking good care of my request for a special discussion on this matter and showing up here at the Assembly Hall. It is so that speech pathologists and physical therapists and their clients have expressed themselves on negative consequences of health officials'changes in their working environment. These changes were performed without sufficient evidence and explanations. It can really be the core of their effects, allowing the safety of health professionals in the health system and hence the knowledge of knowledge that has been built up and that it will lead to a growing waiting list for a service in which there is a truly waiting state, especially in the country. It would be very special to discuss this situation without reminding them that these are not the only independent health - care professions that are subject to the government's regional policies. I'll only get back to it at the end. As far as speech pathologists are concerned, this government required conditions in their two - year work contract to reach a contract. This means that a newly graduated speech pathologist, with a study and all the required leave from a surgeon, can't give his services and earn it from health insurance unless he's been working for a state or a community for the first two years. Talkoologists have repeatedly tried to get this law done without success. The reasons given by the health authorities are either stated professionally without any explanation or cost. In Iceland, independent speech pathologists account for a range of 40- susceptibility ratios, of which 12 are in the country. There are about 600 people on the waiting list for the services of speech pathologists, mainly children and adolescents, where early intervention may be a key factor. According to a recent survey, the waiting period is 17◯36 months. The decision naturally has a negative effect on the ministry, but most of it is in the region where speech clinics cannot employ newly graduated speech pathologists. Some recently wrote speech pathologists, living in the country, have to go to a clinic in urban areas, while there is a lack of service in their hometown and in the homes where their living rooms are giving up because of a lack of resources. Of course, this is just an intolerable situation for the inhabitants of the country. In this light, I ask: Is the health minister going to hold the restricted law to stress? If so, why? Mr. President. Medical therapists are the other class we're discussing. This is where independent physical therapists, half of the over 700 physical therapists employed in this country, have been uncontracted with health insurance for a considerable period of time. Thus, they have worked according to a so - called reimbursement order, and the last agreement with the health authorities was at the end of May 2019. Last month, new requirements were added to regulations requiring, repeated, two-year work experience in a medical facility and in addition to those required for at least 80% employment rate. The rules reach those who graduate in spring. She's cutting the line of work. Many of these graduates had offered an offer in the classrooms where they were being trained, but it is reasonable to conclude that 40% of graduates' classrooms are living rooms. These sensors rely on work there after graduation, and their offices rely on these employees. Then there is the professional side, but there is a big difference between health therapists and health professionals. These are two different sectors of physical therapy. Thus, in view of the community of physical therapists, this Regulation will influence the specialisation of the physical therapist to the worse in which diversity will be reduced. The question is highest. Health Minister: What are the reasons for this new arrangement? In light of negative effects, including to the task of a newly graduated physical therapist and the services of a health therapist in the country, do you think the minister will withdraw the change? I mentioned at the outset that other health - care professionals are under attack because of the government's national policies. Some have also noted that this policy, working contrary to the cooperation of public business and personal health issues, can and should definitely produce soils for double the health systems in this country. An example of such developments can be found in the health department's response to concerned graduates, but the Ministry pointed out that it could start its own business without the payment of Iceland's Medical Insurance. What an interesting approach that is! This requires that those who give up the waiting lists go to these newly graduated physical therapists if they rely on them to pay higher prices. [[The president calls.]] And what remains of our national covenant that, regardless of our economic situation, it is as safe to all to access needed health care? [[The president calls.]] Perhaps in the near future, this service will be brought to Sweden or Denmark, as the latest examples show for the future. Minister? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u43	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator who took the initiative in this discussion is a fine and important one, and I'll bet he'll take it here in the Senate Hall. But there is reason to correct certain factors on the basis of that. A senator who is subject to a contract that is in effect, although it is certainly extended from month to month, that is, the case of speech pathologists and the fact that there is no agreement with physical therapists. First, the senator asks what kind of health authorities are responding to a lack of speech services for children and how they intend to deal with situations relating to speech health services in the region, in view of the requirement of two years'experience with speech pathologists. Iceland's health insurance will now review business contracts with speech pathologists instead of a frame deal that is now in force with isolated speech pathologists. If that were to happen, there might be a chance that a section of civil speech pathologists can function under contract, although two years of work experience is not met, as a newly released person would function under the guidance of more experienced speech pathologists. The criteria for two years of job experience came into a frame deal in 2017 and approved this contract by speech pathologists. Four years have passed since the importance of the law has been established, so it becomes clear that the amount of time that follows it has passed. Today, speech pathologists working under the SI framework contract are being added each year. The National Ministry of Health, Transport and Department of Transport and National Affairs and the Union of Iceland will review changes in the structure of speech health services to schoolchildren and how to add speech health services to the concerned group. In the next few weeks, the Outfit aims to submit proposals to the preliminaries. In particular, in recent years there have been trends that are important and can be used by telecommunications services or telecommunications tools to form Kara Connecticut's advanced telepathic systems and have been successful. Besides, I think it's true that Covid has had the effect that people are not more afraid of using such equipment. They have sometimes given in to many benefits, although there is no substitute for meeting a client when it comes to complex professional services. I'd also like to mention a hearing station. There are three speech pathologists who are specialized in the ministry of hearing - impaired children and rehabilitation of people with a spic transplant and children with a broken lip and palate. They resort to the most complex occurrences. Secondly, why? A senator for the evidence that the two-year work experience is set up in a Regulation as a requirement for the establishment of physical therapists in Iceland's Medical Insurance and asks specifically if a minister intends to withdraw that condition. Then it is important to make sure that the senator's claims are not correct, as it were, a requirement for physical therapists to establish a contract. A senator put it that way. The protocol is set to ensure continued pay attention to health care in the current treatment interval, i.e. when we don't make deals. This set the standard for two years of experience, i.e. in the Regulation, but not in the agreement. So there is a misunderstanding. A senator says so. Medical therapists haven't worked out Iceland's health insurance yet. The main thing here is that when a profession has not reached its contract with the SI for services, we have to recognize that we need to prioritise capitals to the local seminary and that they have to be done on professional grounds. When health care insurance is negotiated in the contract, a certain monitoring of the services provided, by volume, by quality, by cost, and by the results of the service is required. However, in the absence of a legal agreement, as is the fact of the case with a physical therapist, SI has merely been able to determine that accounts are made in accordance with services and registrations. Therefore, it is necessary to set ever more professional requirements for those members who provide services that are supplied by the State in accordance with the Regulation. Second, according to the SI data, the majority of graduates appear to go into independent business, while at the same time a physical therapist is lacking in hospitals and institutions than would be desirable to get more physical therapists to work at the government. The Regulation will not be canceled, but it must be determined what the outcome will be at the bargaining table. At that there are two parties, i.e. Iceland's health insurance and physical therapists who will then decide the content of the contract. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I guess I'll come to a third question why. The senator here at the end of the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u44	V.E.G. President. I appreciate this discussion today. We, on a welfare committee, received both speech pathologists and physical therapists to us this week. It was rather a dark picture that they brought up to us in their dealings with Iceland's Health Insurance Institute, an institution that we see every day as important as it is. to ensure bioavailability, quality and capital, and that everything is properly and properly maintained. Today, we see a growing list of waitings, and they are being extended, and regulations have been changed to a great extent, both to service workers and to receivers. I mention an example of an emergency treatment that could be obtained from a physical therapist without the reference of a family physician who is now removed by a single pencil. So now the stress of family doctors is increasing, and enough was involved. Besides, if we discuss the services of speech pathologists, children are often involved and early intervention is proved to be the best result. It is surprising, then, that such fences are installed that do nothing but increase the problem, increase the waiting, and the hopelessness. If we discuss the region, why have we come to the other place to talk about the capital area and the region? So I want to ask the highest. Minister: Is it because a minister's decisions improve this quality? Are you going to delete all of the independently active experts? Because within these sequences, they are a number of persons who operate independently, and all of this can fall under the public, so to speak, through contracts with Iceland's Medical Insurance.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u45	A respectable president. Bioavailability of health care is one of the most important things for us and that it is in everyone's best interests to pay for it, that the costs of patients are not too high. This is what Iceland's health insurance insurance was created, to try to find a balance between that and see how it could be done in the most practical and safe way. So it is important that we do well. As I experience this, there are extended contracts and, on the other hand, the lack of contracts with these two important professions that we deal with, which are extremely important. There are classes that help people to deal with various barriers that are important to legalizing, which can prevent other costs and improve quality of life, and so on. How important it is, then, that we have such a ministry! I think it is in common with these matters, according to information from these sources, that there is a little more cooperation and conversation between a government representative who is buying the ministry and this party about how this service will be most granted so that it achieves its objectives. It's a little bad if we don't have enough information about the consequences of implementing the contracts and not having this conversation and cooperation before the contract ends. It is important that we have all the information on what this means. Finally, I'd like to say that lack of speech pathologists or physical therapists will not be solved by negotiations with Iceland's Medical Insurance.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u46	Mr. President. Yes, it was in a way shocking to hear the voices of physical therapists and speech pathologists facing him. The welfare committee this week. It is clear that there are professionals who want the public service in Iceland, young and older, but, unfortunately, communication with the government has not been the best option. V.E.G. A minister cannot backfire that contracts should only deal with Iceland's health insurance because Iceland's health insurance is a government service. There, ministers in the government must carry the responsibility that they bear if nothing goes unsettling for years with the necessary classes in this country, leading to a prolonged and extended waiting process. Waiting lists for essential physical therapy have begun for a year, waiting in individual offices, e.g. for children's speech therapy, 900 people are waiting for their first interview. It's all under government, Mr. President, to have this government, not to negotiate, not to complete this process, but to make one threshold after another. This results in worsening of quality of life, increasing medication levels, and a much higher cost for Icelandic society. Letting it get any longer like this is completely unscrupulous. There's a shortage of both speech pathologists and physical therapists in this country. Waiting lists are awesome, and now they're going to be the highest. A health minister is going to deal with this, but don't let it hurt just for years. This is what happens on her watch, and she has to be responsible.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u47	A respectable president. I thank the advocate for this important discussion. As other members of the council have entered, we were contacted by these classes at the welfare committee. I agree with what others have. Councilmen have said, I was also shocked. I was shocked because of their communication between governments and those classes and because of the length of the waiting lists. Children and adolescents with speech and speech disorders need assistance from speech pathologists, and it is very important that they get their cures as early as possible. It is important not only for them in daily life but also to prevent further development of the disorder. Early intervention is very important, and all studies strongly recommend it. But today's situation is very difficult. Waiting lists are very long, and there are cases that children need to wait for and over two years before serving. There's been no negotiations with Iceland's Medical Insurance, the Ministry's Office. Minister, and Minister is responsible for the ultimate responsibility for the seminary. The speech pathologists are becoming more prominent in both the educational and the health systems. They perform services with individuals of all ages who have problems with speech, speech, and communication. This is an important class, and growing understanding is beginning to take place. I'd like to encourage the highest. To impress her, to take hold of this sect, to solve this contract problem, and to shorten a waiting list. It's very important. Early intervention in such activities, both physical therapy and speech disorders, is a policy that must be taken and the government is responsible for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u48	A respectable president. I'm surprised that families are forced to wait for the help of speech pathologists while the number of new registrations for speech is considerably lower than the number of interested candidates. The waiting period for services is unusual, especially in the country. I've heard stories about parents waiting even two or three years after getting a phone call. The waiting season has increased, and it is unacceptable. It affects the language of children who need help from their speech pathologist. It also influences the services that speech pathologists provide, and they are troubled by the Fed speech pathologists. The study of speech is studied either year or year, and a group of newly enrolled students is limited to 15 individuals. Although there is a high level of study, there are quite a few who get in but who want to. You ask yourself, " What is the cause? ' Why is the waiting time for the children who need this help longer when it is obvious that the new registration to speech is less than possible? And why is this limitation to the number 15? A respectable president. The contract between SI and SI has expired, and I would like to encourage the parties to achieve an acceptable result. At this position it is not possible. It is a delicate group that awaits and that requires the services of speech pathologists across the country. Children who fall under the subsidies of speech training need to attend a service to independent-active speech pathologists where local and state workers are only in the process of analysing and counseling. Speech is an important tool that must be applied as soon as possible, and therefore contracts must be reached. Here the needs of the children need to be kept in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u49	A respectable president. Yesterday at the council, I opened up a waiting list in the medical system, as well as what I ran into in my time, that people even get in touch with an answering machine, and that they receive misleading information there. I made this suggestion to the health minister and to the government, whether it was time that the government would soon come to the answering machine for all who are waiting for action in Iceland. Then a mechanical voice might respond: If you have a Covid-19, press button one; you are in first place. If you are a child, press button two and you are not first. If you are waiting for a vital operation, press button three and you will be told where you are on a 200-man waiting list. If you are on a waiting list for a waiting list, press button four and wait for your turn. The machine will continue to say: If you are waiting for physical therapy or for a speech pathologist, there will be long waiting lists there for the Regulation to change and to contact you in two years. They're causing people harm by keeping them on the list, and the worse is that it's not going to get any better. Now, for example. A 40 - year - old speech pathologist's birthday has come up with the situation where many of them are retired and also physical therapists, thus increasing the problem. But the solutions may not be in the near future. I'll be in the next talk in detail on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u50	A respectable president. I thought I meant how much the president enjoys this discussion. I wanted to tell you a story about a woman who's graduating in spring from physical therapy at the University of Iceland. She has been trained by a physical therapist with his own room, and he wants to continue her service. But here this woman lands on a wall. A new change in Iceland's financial income policy includes the need for a physical therapist to have worked as such for at least 80% of the staff ratio for two whole years. The principle applies not to those who already have a contract with health insurance but only to the others, the new ones who want new ones on record. The woman has five years of university education, a master's degree, and an extensive training program, but her clients will have to pay higher price for her physical therapy than those who graduated the previous year. Newly written physical therapists will thus be able to compete with those who are already in the profession, for they will not be able to render service for two years at higher prices than anyone else offers. Therefore, they need to work at medical institutions this designated time before they can start working independently. So the question is, Is there work for everyone to get from the government? Can the health minister guarantee all 30 newly graduated physical therapists any time? Is it desirable to paralyze the private sector and send everyone to work at the government? Should not the variety of interests of those who are specialized in physical therapy be taken into consideration? Don't waiting long enough for them? The situation is that there are long waiting lists to get to the hospital coach. They perform priceless work in rehabilitation of unworkable people and in reducing the incidence of disability, e.g. caused by injury. This change is thought to take the first place on the people of the country who are not getting the necessary service, except, of course, the obvious, that it will take on those who are special at this study. [[The president calls.]] So with these limitations, we have come to that place and conclude that some of the necessary services are paid down for some, not for others.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u51	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson for raising this subject and the highest. Minister for participating in the discussion. On the other hand, what I feel is what we agree that here we are talking about two very important health - care classes, i.e. physical therapists and speech pathologists, but as far as the importance is, contracts meet between parties and soon. Of course, it may be thought that there is an effect of Covid, and even that the agreements that are close to making are more complex than the agreements that have been made so far, but that does not change the fact that it is important that negotiations be met. She has been very busy with the recent so - called two - year rule that people have said is unfair. Of course, parties need to evaluate them in agreements in the way these factors are carried out, but the way that is highest. A minister pointed to here earlier, i.e. that, in these cases, new ones can work side by side, either on responsibility or under the supervision of an experienced employee, may likely be able to walk. I think that's a very sensible way. It promotes professional responsibilities, and it promotes what is bad. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson came in earlier, that these professions themselves can choose a professional field after graduation and have experience in both, i.e. working in public institutions and private institutions according to incidents. I reiterate what I said before, Mr. President, the most important thing is to reach contracts as soon as possible so that this important service will get to normal.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u52	Mr. President. We'll discuss the status of speech pathologists and physical therapists. It has been observed that in many parts of the country, there are long periods of waiting for the services of speech pathologists. The situation there is that hundreds of young people are waiting for this service. In many lands, the service of speech pathologists to young people suffers. Early intervention of their problems is very important and, of course, not responding early in life will affect the development of these children and may have normal social relationships with their peers. Newer - born speech pathologists living in the country often have to move to town in order to meet the conditions of the Medical Insurance Framework Convention and the Social Association of Tantalologists. Mr. President. There have been reports that each class of health - care professionals on the basis of agreements with the state is severely complaining about their dealings with the health insurance state. This isn't new, Mr. President. We have a long wait list for replacement operations where people are rather sent on a more expensive basis than dealing with national initiatives. We have years of grief over the ministry's dealings with nurses who now normally have the patience of many rural partners, since their communities had often paid large amounts of money to the government's responsible business. Thus, the Ministry of Health reassigns one street agreement against the individual enterprise and any person who dares not be on the payroll of the state, whether by a free organization, by health care providers, or by trade professionals who negotiate with the government on government services. Mr. President. The secretary has to answer for the healthcare system around here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u53	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson for this discussion, which is very needed. I've been standing in this chair more often than not, and I've been representing a health minister. I have also stood by her when it comes to handling the money of government funds that is used to pay health care. I think we all agree on that. But in these matters, speech pathologists and physical therapists disagree with the highest. Minister, that two-year proportional work experience is needed before physical therapists can negotiate with Iceland's Medical Insurance. It's kind of incomprehensible to me. My district has some practicers who have been very ill because of illness or if physical therapists have to take time off for other reasons. Some have found that even a 40% physical therapist in a small room in the country has time off but cannot get a newly trained physical therapist to work because experienced physical therapists are not available in the country. I am deeply concerned about the service in the country, a respectable president. As a result, physical therapists reduce their numbers, increase their service, and prolong their waiting lists. This is serious. I'm worried that with long periods of waiting, there are many who never come back to work. V.E.G. Minister. I have my heart to handle taxes well, but this way leads to less service. It's been our thinking in the dark. ...and I know that we agree that we want to improve the standard of life of the people of this country, but we don't limit it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u54	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson for requesting this important discussion about two important women's classes. Clearly, the change in the directive on reimbursement at the cost of physical therapists and speech pathologists counteracts recent recruitment in this article and also leads to worse service in the country. This is likely to reduce the interest of the Icelandic student to take the initiative, as well as, in case of physical therapists, that other agencies feel that there is only one option to recruit foreign physical therapists with professional experience. This is also a special provision in view of the fact that there are probably not enough places in the state's institutions to hire this number of newly graduated physical therapists and speech pathologists, not unless the state intends to give up the recruitment contracts that have been in many parts of the system, and significantly improve the standard count. In particular, I am concerned about the impact this might have on the services of a physical therapist in the country that has long been relying on replacements and replacements. This change will add to the problem of getting a physical therapist. Then these are very limited for young people who want to move back home after they finish school. The same applies to speech pathologists. Mr. President. After five years of college, medical coaches receive their work permit from a surgeon. I have to agree with the words of the chairman of a health therapist's community when she asks: "Why does a minister decide to limit a license that the surgeon has already issued? This is incomprehensible, especially in view of the fact that there is already a great waiting list for the services of both physical therapists and speech pathologists. Was it not one of the government's promises to make health care less expensive and accessible? It is easy to see what these measures will do besides extending a waiting list, especially in the country, creating unemployment among newly graduated ones, and upset living rooms. But that may be the meaning.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u55	A respectable president. As I mentioned in my earlier language, we repeatedly see the importance of early intervention by the health system and the prevention of future problems. I don't understand how the welfare state of Iceland can do better than that children have to wait up for two years to get better when it comes to something like a speech disorder. It may be very burdensome for a child to have such an untreated disease for a long time, and two years is a long time in a child's life, rather. This can affect social development and other aspects of daily life in a child. Contracts fail and waiting lists are extended. We see this in current classes, but we also see more classes in the medical system. It's on table at the highest. Ministers to negotiate with these parties, to ensure that innovation can take place in the health system in Iceland, that there are positive incentives to come to Iceland after school and to prevent future problems. It must be the right of a child in Iceland to be able to get treatment from a speech pathologist or physical therapist. This situation is shocking, and we also see the same being happening with experts. V.E.G. A medical minister has done a lot about the pandemic, and it is understandable, but now we are likely to see some relief there. Therefore, whatever the case, it is now necessary to attack this waiting list in the New World Health Organization. Of course, the taxpayers need to be carefully and carefully protected, but sometimes they have to look beyond the boundaries of the State to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u56	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson for calling attention to these important matters. This is where we talk. physiotherapy and ways to improve the working environment, both for the benefit of physiotherapy and for the benefit of users. In this context, I would like to point out that Iceland's Medical Insurance decided last year to assign Kingdom Halls to provide physical training in the capital area. The decision is supported by the laws on public purchases issued by the European Union in 2014. The law should ensure the effectiveness and efficiency of public funds. But should health and social services agree with these laws? The North countries have adopted laws on public shopping but have established special health and social services. For example, Norway contains the health and social services laws and, among other things, the laws on the provision of health and social services. that the health and social status of the Member State should be established. The variety, quality, and integration of the services should be stressed and shared. A respectable president. We have and may go the same way that our neighbors in these matters do. This should not be difficult for a small nation. Since the present government has improved the payment system, others were enabled to use the services of physical therapists. This is important for the efficacy and health of individuals as well as for being in line with the Mosaic Law covenant in the field of prowess and public health. Like health and social services, we cannot approach sensitive, as we are nearing roads. Other rules must apply to such service. Such a course would improve us.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u57	A respectable president. Which parent would like to call and ask for his child's assistance, perhaps seven years old, from a speech pathologist and get the message that it's number 200 or 300 or 400 in the order that means waiting one and a half years, two years, even three? The child will no longer be seven, but he will be ten, and he will have missed two or three years of school. The consequences are immense. It's a little strange that in unsubstantiated inquiries, a health minister told me, in connection with a physical therapist, that it would have been, if I recall correctly, had weekly appointments with physical therapists. At a meeting of the welfare committee, physical therapists said they didn't recognize it. So I ask, who were at that weekly meeting? Was it just Iceland's Minister and Medical Insurance? And were they just talking about physical therapists because the physical therapists didn't seem to have been there? A physical therapist cannot be negotiated, and as a result, any forced action is under way. Meanwhile, they're getting nothing, but they're not making a deal and they're not talking to them. And in this context, what was the purpose of this? I can't see that it was to shorten a waiting list taking six hours from a physical therapist without going to a family doctor. What on earth was it done for? There are some who may have pulled and are missing their jobs. Why send them to a family doctor to ask for a request, so to speak, and the person loses a lot of work? [[The president calls.]] The system as it was worked really well, so it should be that way. I don't understand when you put stones in the street of people who really need this service.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u58	Mr. President. Thank you for the good talk here today. If you find a red thread in it, you can see that this situation is not okay. I'm sorry to the highest. A minister has spent valuable time here correcting the alleged misunderstanding in my case. I know well the difference between the contract and the payment policy, there are other people than the one here who are preoccupied with the formalities at the expense of patient service. And speaking of formalities: The responsibility for this position is not in Iceland's Medical Insurance. She's not lying with their contracts. She's at the government of Iceland. Increasing waiting lists for the services of speech pathologists and physical therapists have a negative effect on the number of people of all ages waiting for important improvements in their quality of life. There is also good reason to be concerned about the negative effects of a waiting list on the overall health - care network. We know that if the services of these groups are performed in time, the needs of people according to more expensive and more complex health care will eventually be reduced and vice versa. Pressures on the system are especially due to encountering people who have not yet received their release, but they have not been addressed in time. Mr. President. If it's not about another fight with an independent professional professional, what then? The noble reasoning is still uncalled for. If this is the first and last question about financing, then this situation must be a clue to priorities, where available measures and rehabilitation are simply at the end of the row. Whatever the cause, this is an unacceptable situation. I'll call for a change, and I'll call you as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u59	A respectable president. Thank you for the discussion. Only here at the end of the clinic, I think it is important to be able to handle the advanced health - care professionals and new published rehabilitation policies that were long-term, work beginning on the construction of teams for long-term work, regardless of their housing, a rehabilitation policy that tells us to build up a rehabilitation team in all parts of the country, and news of the new and first rehabilitation team that has already been built up by the Eastern Health Centre, a cross-cutting and human rehabilitation specialists, medical therapists, social therapists, and industrial therapists. This team has started a job, and the goal is that we can have a team of these all over the country. I don't suppose that's what. A senator and a word-and-a-word, and others who have been here to discuss the situation expect the minister to negotiate with health care providers himself. I have at least a few minutes. not heard that this is the goal. We've made this up in the law that Iceland's Medical Insurance will take care of it. Nor do we assume, is it, more honorable president, that the budget is unlimited? We want it to be in some way, so that as merchants of the ministry, we have some money to buy this assigned service for. Then we need to set some guidelines for the quality, size, and success of the ministry. This knows why. A senator, and this is a deal. It's not that, most respected president, while we have some kind of currency in force, it's not that there's an indication of what a contract might involve. [[Up front.]] Right away. A senator insists that he is killing the case. We have limited financial resources and a frame deal like the one in force today, there is no limit to how much goes out of the state's budget for this particular service. I don't have as a health minister permission to open up on a government fund indefinitely.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u60	Mr. President. I hereby explain a report I have submitted to the General Assembly on indications relating to the administrations in the Generals' research reports, such as the Supreme Court. The president went over. The origin and leading of the plant can be attributed to a request. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, along with others in the 148th legislature. From the beginning it was clear that the scope of the project was such that it could not be completed within the required time, but I have regularly informed the Parliament that the report is being prepared. I'm not gonna use my little time here to review the General Report Requests. There is much to say. However, this document, which is high in 400 pages, remains to be taken into consideration by the emphasis that is expressed in the request to the extent possible. In that work, there is even It includes identifying and limiting all administrative indications and presenting them in the best context. There have been 339 indications. To write this report, I hope it's quite a piece of work and interesting reading. In addition to the research reports by the Generals, the data we have in this report show that the support of the administration has been heavily established over the over a decade since collapse and is in part involved in international development. I mentioned 339 guidelines that had been marked and that have been partially failed, i.e. 320 out of 339 indications, which I would think were pretty effective. I'm going to go for a big one in response to a clue as described in the report. It should first be noted that the circumstances and conditions of the administration have responded to changes. There I can mention a new total law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, set in 2011 to improve the work and practices of the Government and the general administration of the Council of Government. One of the main objectives was to promote coordination between ministers, including The duties of the Minister must be determined to seek to coordinate policies and measures in situations where the issues and issues of the matter overlap and clearly laid down the administrative and monitoring duties of the Ministers with the government on the topic field. The legislation's preparation and quality have been improved as well as the legislation-based policies. The Ministry of Presidency has set up a legal office that supervises quality monitoring in preparation for a prime project and a administrative conference. In 2017, the government adopted regulations on the preparation and disposal of the Commission and the administration. An adjustment in the evaluation of the impact of the bills was adopted by the European Commission legislation on public finances 2015, with increased emphasis on the overall impact of a management project and a proper assessment of financial impacts as well as other factors before the Council is submitted to the General Assembly. The Council's confidentiality was opened in February 2018 in which there is a review of policy documents, legislation plans and the implementation of regulations, regulations as well as EU types. This required open consultation with the making of a law-employment project and made the big growth. A targeted strategy has been established in accordance with indications by the Board of Directors. There has been a turning point where the obligation of a minister to shape policies for a topic field and a set of lawsuits to five years of age has been established. Similarly, education and training have been enhanced by the development of the Theocratic Ministry School. In 2014, increased transparency and recording of information were among the aims of new legislation on public libraries, new information laws in 2013, and further improvements in the legislation of the Commission by reviewing the information legislation in 2018 and now covering the legislation of legislative and judicious authorities. At that time, the maximum duration of treatment was shortened and the resources required to publish a treatment-emergent case report. Fundamental changes have been made in terms of the financial system. Improvements in financial law include: in increasing financial requirements, making financial companies better equipped to cope with problems of business. A new rule on the increase of free funds contributes to the ability of financial companies to face their payment bonds. There have been rules on the identification and assessment procedures of the Marine Department, personal funds, and the level of weights that work against penalties. Emphasis has been made on clarifying the role, responsibilities, and duties of the administration, and benefit review of the rules on risk management, continuous funding, and financial monitoring. New restoration legislation and financial support are aimed at limiting the damage to financial problems. Necessary protection has been promoted by new laws on insurance control, which also contribute to financial stability. New legislation on the operators of specialized funds is rooted in reactions to international financial markets in 2008•2009, but problems associated with such funds are expected to have increased risks within the European financial system. There is a lack of full vision of the potential risks and risks associated with the hedges of specialized funds. Improvements in stock market legislation have been made in the form of new laws on dissociative and decontamination. The rules on holding financial companies have taken fundamental changes since 2008, but investors who intend to take an active part in a financial enterprise must pass a fitting assessment based on careful analysis and data collection. The obligation of the owners of an active possession section to provide information has been increased, and the Federal Commission has continued to monitor them properly. Possessions may be limited if investors are considered unqualified to carry an active possession share despite previously evaluable status. Since 2014 it has been permitted to stop foreign investment in systematic key banks if such investments are considered a system risk. The UNECE Union was a growing cooperation between the two institutions from collapse, but previously a cooperation agreement in 2011 was established regarding the analysis of the risk in the entire financial system and setting up a formal approach to financial stability through the development of the Minister of Ministers of 2014, with the establishment of the financial Strategic and the World Risk Committee, which worked for it. The combination provides perspective and resources to promote financial stability to one place, and while creating a better basis for integration of monarchy and national economists on the other hand and, as appropriate, money policy and financial status policy. In addition to human resources and information systems, the FESI has made significant changes in its planning and way of doing things in support of increased firmness and follow-up of the Agency's treatments, as well as investments in human resources and information systems. Finally, significant improvements in the economic management have been made in order to better ensure that prices and economic stability goals can be achieved. A money policy committee was set up in 2009, and decisions on the use of money policies made more targeted and more associated with underlying economic analysis and forecasts. There has been an increase in transparency, providing the basis for improved discussions on money issues and increased understanding of the shape and implementation of policy. At that time, government planning and policy were further laid aside by government laws on public finance of 2015, that of long - term thinking, stability, and discipline in the management of public funds. The labour market environment has been focused on the highest body of the labour market's national financial body, the government, and the Sea Bank, increasing its role since 2019 with a trollaby committee and a regular meeting. The Council is aimed at strengthening the coordination of economic and social stability and the impact on climate. Coordination and coordination in economic management have been increased, including by the transport of the economy to the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs and later to the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs. The Ministers'Committees were set up with new legislation on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland in 2011 and are a platform for Ministers responsible for related affairs to coordinate their policies and measures on matters and litigation. Finally I'd like to say, Mr. President, because that's where I just reviewed the big lines of this report on the financial and administrative systems as such, that, in fact, the report is much more extensive. It also discusses various guidelines on morals, occupations, education systems, and the media. I don't have time to review all the things that have been worked on, including the changes made in college law to ensure academic freedom, the changes that have been made to various aspects of the ethical code for both the Council, the Minister, the defenses against conflicting interests and other factors. In short, Mr. President, as noted in the General's investigation, there was good reason for improvement in both Iceland's legal environment and Iceland's administrative system after the collapse. Here at the General Assembly was at that time a solid agreement to establish an independent committee to investigate its leadings and causes, and in the last decade five governments have worked to improve the development of the administrative and financial systems. Although this report has taken a considerable amount of work and may not be a standard report that can be requested at the World Council at relatively small intervals, I am very happy that it was attacked, as it shows that there has been a very progressive improvement in the administrative, financial and II programs during this decade. Thus, such a report helps to stop and explore the situation, but it can also be a part of continued improvement. Although much work has been done, it is clear that there is no end to reforming activity in these areas. So I just want to say, Mr. President, that I think there's a lot of work here to help us with the rest of the process, but also important for review, because there are certainly a lot of people here who have come to make Iceland's system better equipped to deal with major challenges, a new financial system better equipped to do the same thing as society all.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u61	Mr. President. I appreciate the report that appears to be the best. Likewise, I thank you for the history of the highest. Prehistoric prime minister agree with her on the benefits of the report and information value. The focus of the report is on the leading cause of the crash and the subsequent changes in administrative matters as outlined in the reports. But, Mr. President, although the collapse was bad, its sequeliness was perhaps half worse. Many lost their homes, apartments, and savings that had been collected for a long time. So far, as in established economics, sobriety has been attributed to a global scale. Based on official information including in the reply of a minister to my inquiries, it was no less than 10,000 families who lost their home. The thousands of parents were allowed to lead their children out of their homes, with all the fuss, anguish, and suffering involved. So touched the aftergame tens of thousands of Icelanders. Mr. President. The question arises that one another might have occurred in any other country except after major natural disasters or wars. I will not bring reproach on what the government was seeking to do, but the city of armor never rose, and the above figures give evidence of its success. Is it clear that the anger and resentment that are prepared in Icelandic society because of this experience, though the correction process has been corrected in 2013 by the government under the leadership of the Son of Davíð Gunnlaugsson? Mr. President. We need to evaluate these events, lose tens of thousands of Icelanders on the street, evaluate the measures taken, and evaluate other options that may have been available. We need what the National Institutes of Economic Affairs call the home's research report, and they support their website using the following words, allowing the president: ▪ The network's research report is essential for repairing the crash and for healing the wounds left behind to the extent possible. Without such research and the legitimate response to its findings, the real situation of the financial system is uncertain, therefore not all have gone to the grave. For example, there are still cases where credit institutions have been found to run customers and have to repay large sums of money. The media would like to respond to the call of the Hags Association, and at the following time they will submit a request for this subject's investigation. The Central Party has worked hard and hard on the interests of the households in good cooperation with the National Institutes of Economic Affairs by billets, Senate resolutions and seminars here at the General Assembly. If I mention a key bill, a bill on growth and insurance insurance policy that includes a full headlining application to the insurance policy, a bill designed to prevent any human being from having to put up with the retail measures of an unsupervised and improved credit ratings and records so that unauthorized persons cannot abuse the system to drop people for the living that it is necessary to land on the underlaws they have in financial terms. We have work to do, to increase the financial protection of consumers, thus protecting the homes of the people of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u62	Mr. President. First, I'd like to say that this report we're discussing here is extremely important. It is important to investigate and draw out the causes, consequences, and lessons of what went wrong in a banking market, a collapse that set the nation's economy on its side. Many lost much money, and some lost everything. It is also important to gather together how we have responded and what has been done to prevent such a recurrence. Therefore, the report is important. It highlights what has been done and what the authors believe is sufficient or inadequate. We do not have to agree with that assessment in every case, but we do have a fine summary here that can be of value in continued improvement work. It is of great importance that in a few years, there has been increased transparency in the administration and the collection of information facilitates monitoring and data processing as well as the paying of public access to information. Technology progress will still increase the transparency and data collection and development. If the development of innovation in the government remains, it will provide efficiency and better solutions. In a short discussion of this long report, I will discuss three things: a lack of vision for the financial system 12 years after failure, public financial legislation and the need for a new national economy. The Senate report on the report of the committee emphasized the need for a public policy on the financial market and that it provided a clear vision for the future. It hasn't been done yet. Since the collapse of the bank, there has been no need for general debate on how the public wants the banking system to develop in this country and what it takes to meet the public's will in that regard. A solid basis for policy development is needed by means of a social discussion. Trust in the financial system has not been regained since collapse. The question needs to be answered, How does the banking system ensure good and reliable service to people and businesses? Along with rapid technological development and the need for green investments, financial challenges are obvious. A road must be taken to evaluate the benefits of community banks, endeavoring to attract desirable financial institutions by knowledge of banking, and it is important that a change of system be made to become a concern for owners of investment banks rather than with the State. Here is an important lesson for the bank collapse. According to a report by the General Commission, the Committee considers that the financial management of the state was a factor in creating overexploitation, property inflammation, and financial demand for the fall of banks. The policy of state affairs has been inflexible, and various pressure - inducing measures have been carried out, although economic conditions have not provided a basis for them. To respond to that legitimate comment, in 2011 a new set of laws on public finances was started. The law went into effect on January 1, 2016, and there is some experience. They are extensive, and not all articles have gone into effect yet. There is an example of a law to set in the bank the income of the nation's resources. The proposed policies and plans of the government in all the fields and for all the cases are one of the laws and are particularly positive work procedures that I believe will result in a much better management and efficiency of the State along with the presumption for the administrations of the state. However, it is necessary to revise several requirements. That's where I'd like to first mention 7th parr. The law on the three financial regulations. In the first place, the rules say that the total balance over a five - year period should always be positive and annual, at all times, below 2.5% of national product. Second, the overall debt, apart from pension bonds and business debt and the disclosure of funds and bank accounts, is less than 30% of the gross domestic product. Third, if the debt ratio is greater than 30%, the excess in each 3-year period should be decreased by at least A mean of 5% per year. These are very strict rules, and they can become a mess. Now in the deep economic climate, the rules have been cut off, leaving the enemy's way of following them. If the rules are to remain unsaid, it is clear that the rule of a raceless business will be used as an excuse to reduce public service and sell property if it comes to power, right classes will be used when it returns. It was not intended to lead us in that direction. President. It is long time for the General Assembly to respond to the report of the General Commission and the Senate report that discussed it and restore national interests. The government's evaluation of financial policies and financial planning is stated by the government's laws on government government finance. The Ministry of Economics is a political force and is therefore not at any given time disproportionate to the ruling authorities. By establishing an independent agency that is under the General Assembly to discuss economic issues, there would be no doubt about political impact on the basis of the financial body based on its work. It is stated that the country is an institution that can be trusted with any certainty that it is not to be taken into account by certain secular interests but to be guided by national interests at all times.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u63	V.E.G. President. We're here to review a report of the U.S. Prime Minister on indicators relating to the administrations, which are presented in extensive research reports by the Allied Commission on how to conduct and cause bank and savings fall, and on camp loans and response to those indications. I want to start by thanking the highest. Prime Minister for this report. I'll admit at the beginning that I haven't been able to read it all in context, but it's obvious that I've done a very good job doing this project. What a vast task this is! I'd like to agree with it as the ultimate. The number of reforms made during the past decade in the administrative system, in the legal process, by taking up this report as follows, will support more effective measures on the road, on further improvements. It's very important. I feel that this report is actually out of place as an initial response. It is helpful to draw together any indications that have appeared in the extensive reports of the research committees, which have led to changes and to a better perspective on the many changes and refinements at the same time. It has been very difficult for you to look through the reports in the past to understand what was actually done. Therefore, it is important to prove that all this work is being done. Whether this gives a greater sense of trust, it is difficult to claim, but we are here about 13 years later from the fall of financial institutions that report on the benefits of this analysis work and how it has been accomplished to correct and follow the indications in the reports. In fact, a report by the World Commission on the fall of banks speaks of a major system problem, rather than the fact that there is a well - defined tip. That's even. what I see as an opportunity for this work here, they try to draw it together and explain it better. That is an improvement, for often you have looked into that report and may be only vague where to move on better. Then it says that the last over a decade, we've had a massive operation that's involved in the financial system. It is safe to say that, in comparison with that time, we have today a more powerful administration and, in this respect, a clearer system of legislation. It is important to learn from experience and to make sure that the situation comes back. As a result of such experiences, there must always be a lot of suspicion. We only need to look at the proposed sales of Iceland's banks to see how this suspicion is manifested in spite of all changes in the financial system's routine to form up the discussion over the past few weeks. It is normal, however, and it is understandable that in general we face such plans with suspicion and caution. We are still building up and gaining trust, so this report is a very good way of restoring the trust, although there will be never total confidence in such procedures, and it must always be so that it is hard to trust in. It's like a good reassessment of a stable road that never ends, and we can always improve. The results and tips of the research committees and reports left some persistent questions, opening up a vision of weaknesses, and that is why they were reported, but the report in which their indications are summed up, very necessary at the time, I really have no other word for it. For example, the career of the privatization to bring about the collapse of banks. That, of course, is critical. There is an unveiled process, a political exchange of overpowering practices. It is very well considered in these reports. We have had many failures, and we too need to acknowledge what is well - being done. Of course, it is always important to try that the legislation and the management system provide additional transparency, a more complex practice in a systematicly important enterprise. Of course, this is just one example of what we are actually dealing with here, a respectable president. The regulations of financial institutions have changed completely. I think it's totally undisputed. Whether they can trust and improve - absolutely certain. We know of the improvements in the management and construction of the sale of the government's holdings in financial companies. We've talked about it very much here in the past few weeks, normal. I'm going to refer to three major changes that should contribute to the improved management of sales of the property of the state. First of all, a general policy for the part-and-part partnerships owned by the state and its owners' policy for financial enterprises owned by the State, where the Bankate government will take control of its property and will ensure that the arm length of the policy is achieved, as well as a better definition of the management and responsibilities of the operation of these organisations. It also discusses the criteria and objectives of the possible sale of business assets. Second, it is possible to refer to a legal arrangement for sales of financial enterprises owned by the State, and third, a law set out on official financial management of government property, including members of the unions. This report contains a number of measures, so I'm just putting out what we've been doing here most of the past few weeks, and I'm connected with a planned sale for a share in Iceland Bank, for example. In the past, we were accepting a cautious and sensible way of drawing a line of defense into the sand about what we call separation between business banking and investment banking. The mission never ends, it goes on. Of course, the rules and supervision of the day came to the full meaning of the word, ownership, professionalism, the easy process of obtaining and controlling a bank without the obligation of experience and knowledge, skills, financial resources, etc. All of this has been straightened out. This is important in this context, and it is evident that as soon as possession is distributed, it may be desirable for those who have and manage financial companies to qualify for it. The rules for holding financial enterprises have changed substantially, and today there are high standards for those who may acquire financial institutions and control them. They need to pass a thorough standard assessment based on a more detailed analysis of a number of factors and a firm estimate of fit. Sources for the SEC include those who are not even investing, to what is called an active object. In this case, the duties of members of an active possession share in the necessary information being given to the UNECB have been increased, as well as the continued monitoring of their eligibility and may also place restrictions on the possession of an individual will be considered inappropriate to take on an active property and, despite the fact that he has been evaluable previously qualified for such factors. So there are really a lot more powerful sources today and eyes on the ball all the way, on the investors and on the intention of managing these companies. This has been true in a number of indications. With the future sale of the State's parts of the state, we have to be able to trust that such effective management will be there. It has then been expedient that the largest depositors of financial companies can use their facilities with unlimited access to loans as an example. I see that time is quickly ending much of the material we are discussing. I'm just going to close, a respectable president, to reiterate my gratitude for this work. This will be very helpful. I was thinking, when this request was presented, what it could do, and how to approach this assignment. Of course, it is hopeless for a brief talk to reflect accurately on all the activities and on what this report has to say. But I feel like I've done well. This will be of great benefit in the future efforts to trust and improve administrative affairs. That's what I'm about, I'm convinced, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u64	President. It's been a long time coming to this report. The idea that it arose at the 146sth Congress to respond to a talk of transit. paritaprevir Einar Brynjólfsson's son, who was then a member of the council, was investigating an investment route in Iceland's Secret Bank. There was Sigis Svavarsdóttir, then a senator, and his present highest. A health minister, opposed to a carrier and asked, by permission of a president: After four years, after five years, after five years, we would arrange to look at the matter again so that we would never fall into the temptation of whitewashing, i.e. we have reports coming out, and we think that we've been touching boxes and we can go on like nothing's happened? As a result, I approached him. A senator asked if we should ask just how it would be possible to carry out the indications made available in the Alduary Research Committee, how would it be possible to sort out the data presented there? This gave me exactly a request for a report made at the 147th meeting I, the Svandís of Svavarsdóttir, Einar Brynjólfsson, Ingi In Jónsson, Birgitta Jónsdóttir, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Steindór Valdimarsson, Nichole Leigh Mosty, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Silja Dögnar's Gunnarsdóttir, and Smári Mccarthy, moved. That council became quite brief, as people know, and a request for a report was reassigned to the 148th Council during this terms of election. Then there were the messengers, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Halldóra Mogensen, Helgi Hrafn, Inga Gunnarsson, Sæland Gaand, Jónddor Valdimarsson, Kollin Otcarsson Proppé, Harðardóttir G. Hardydótir, Smári Mccarthy, and Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Avvarsdótir. Here we are at last a few years later with the product of this request. I was surprised to learn that the tips presented in a report by the World Commission were not organized. I really didn't expect that it would be such a big deal to take these conclusions together because I thought after all the work laid out in the General Commission's report, it would be kept around it in an organized manner that had to be done and what had been done and would be a relatively simple summary of it in a report and submission to the Council. So I was surprised at how much work it took to get the paper we're dealing with here. However, the report has arrived and is well - available and well done. It is very important to have this organized summary of the indications presented in the General Commission report on the causes of relapses of the Icelandic banks and how they have been responded. It generates a complete image of what has been done and how different actions are connected as a whole to address the problem that the system was having before a crash. The last time, before an collapse and when the crash occurred, it was not just the rule that was not good enough but the Rapporteurs were not up to their expectations. There were rules that were not carried out. An example of the need for quality control is, for example, To find in the report, in the indications 152◯200, about the problems in information flows between SECs, Sea Bank, within the government itself, and then with Glimmering over the takeover that took place there. These are examples of why quality control is important. The conclusion of this report has been that the data presented in the study report have generally been addressed. It is important that these information are available to build trust in the financial system. It is very important that people do not feel that false security is involved, that they believe that there is no false security. It is important that there is more transparency with regard to today's quality control, quality control that works well because of the dissociation of a crash, that is actually being actively opposed to its being restored. The report contains 339 tips on a subject for which someone is responsible. A total of 12 indications are said to have not been responded. It is also interesting for various reasons. It contains e.g. those responsible for execution: It's the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, that's the Federal Office of Economics and Economic Affairs, that's another responsible officer, that's the Office of Education and Culture, that's the Ministry of Education and Culture, and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Displacement, another responsible officer of some kind, that's the office of President of Iceland, that's the Ministry of Education and Culture, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Displacement, regarding other reports. This huge task is the reason why there was a tiny problem when the petition was submitted first to the secretary of the report request. She ended up at the highest. Prime Minister because there was a specific co-ordination role to collect information from all these different sources. There are some interesting things I would like to mention, e.g. is shown in the indication No. 74 points to the fact that within the banks there was a separateness and a failure to share their own business, in effect, as much as it might have been. Accepts the NTSB board that it is very important for the normal stock exchange that this separation is actually there. It answers by responding to this indication by various measures, which are of interest in today's budget for the protection of investment banking. It is inevitable, then, that you wonder whether the answer really was yes in this indication or just: Not good enough. Or is it what was being done today perhaps more than necessary, or is it mere showyness, as shown in this discussion? What shall we do with this document? I believe a management and monitoring committee should take this report to heart and ask for reviews due to the actions discussed in the report on the indications presented there. The action that is said to be taken is reflected in the comments of those in charge. And as always, the council must review such explanations in a critical way. The Parliament will have a surveillance role for the European Commission, and as such the Council will not be able to comment effectively on the European Commission without further examination. In recent years, we have some examples of failure. The report that we have here is the beginning of this section's collapse, an end to show that all holes have been stopped, so a similar collapse will not occur again. That the future will be a new challenge based on solid basis for learning from past mistakes. There are many huge social issues, such as the highest. The prime minister came in here, such as questions about the community responsibilities of an enterprise that cannot be covered clearly in a 90 - minute presentation at a Senate Hall from all categories. I believe that there is a need to continue with the indicators and their findings and to call for reviews and community discussion of the key elements discussed in this report; of trust in both the financial and the political systems; of what has been done to build up trust and if that is enough. If professional life is to be responsible for itself, as is discussed in the box on page 232, this responsibility must be visible and understandable. For example, a recent case of the alleged bribe of an Icelandic African company is not so obvious that a promise of responsibility is made. Such matters can easily undermine any confidence in the workplace. Hence, the responsibility must be shown to those with it. The second box discusses the principles of the minister and the administration. The importance of such rules can be found in the collapse discussed by the World Commission report. It is not necessary to look far to find examples of how ministers have handled the code of ethics freely since it was established. Ministers have put reports under chair, phoned a friend, turned a whole level of judgment, had various political dealings. It is not enough to make rules and say that things are getting better. They must be observed, and when confronted with them, that is a responsibility. Finally, there is a box of emphasis on critical thinking and academic freedom in educational and legislation. How has this proved beneficial? Has it been successfully worked, and has it been successful? Because since the main course was set with these emphasises, e.g. false news, good flight. There are a number of interesting points in this report, and I strongly encourage the report to be referred to the management and monitoring committees, which call for reviews and further community discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u65	A respectable president. There seems to be a custom here to thank for the reports and reports, but I have to admit that appreciation was not my main concern when I saw this 400 - page report on the reports. I wondered: " Where have we really come from in the entire reporting process and in the administrative department that sometimes turns around? In fact, I'm also curious to know, I didn't find it quickly, and I have to admit here in a speech chair, a respectable president, that I haven't read all 400 pages, at the cost of the report. Maybe it's just the guy who's standing here, and when he's looking out, he's gonna have to go for a second. A senator here may be as happy and happy as he is. A senator who spoke earlier, Willum Þór Þórsson, who said that this was all the best case despite having had doubts about it in the first place. When the report is as extensive as the final study report on the Council, it is only natural that the proposed indications be followed in some way. I'm not a spokesman for all kinds of dates and opinions about the other things and then there's just some paper lying on the shelf, not at all. So I began to wonder if there was not some more formal way to keep up with this, some sort of databases, and other things where we could look up what had been done in various matters. It's quite clear, and we've been discussing it here in this hall since I sat down at the council, that it has, for example, been. The legal and surveillance framework for the financial market has been extensively modified. We've recently discussed it here in connection with the expected sale of a share in Iceland Bank. It's very well considered in the report. There are dozens of bills that have shown changes in financial markets. Official financial laws have also been referred to here. I'll quite admit, a person has had the chance to sit here as a deputy, probably between 2004, 2005, just at the time of Christmas approval of budgeting 15 minutes, that it was often arguing about very small amounts of money to collect or some other factors that might be of great importance, and obviously it wasn't that big picture. There is a huge difference now between the extent of public financial management, financial policies, and then the budgets and the implementations where we have projects, to-dos, time, responsibilities, and funds for each project. It's a huge difference, and it's a big improvement. A respectable president. In regard to the financial system, there has also been a little discussed, and what. paritaprevir Today's Oddný G. Harðardóttir came in, had an even greater discussion about the banking system and what the public wants with the banking system. I must say, a respectable president, that I often sound that way -- maybe this sounds good in a speech, but what are we really talking about? We have adopted all the regulations of the European Economic Area around the financial system, even further under conditions that we are a small system and that we want to go even further in security, but people still want to discuss how the public likes to have things. I don't understand this discussion unless people are just saying that we want to have bank banks, state banks forever, and it's only natural for the state to have two of the three business banks. It doesn't seem natural to me to be clearly stated. A respectable president. This report may be useful, and it's good to see all these yess when you look at what you've done and what you haven't done. Of course, in some cases there is no. Perhaps it would be good to have this installed in some kind of database when we are considering it better. But because this was reported on by a member of the Central Party, I'm sure it was. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson, who said that the Central Party was the only one to request a second study report, I don't know, a respectable president. Of course, it is important that we learn from the past, and we should look at the mistakes made in the past and learn from them. But sometimes I think we're too busy with the past and don't look enough into the future. I'm pretty sure that our future project, and what may come up in the future, could be just as much as the collapse of the bank, is something we didn't. As it is good sometimes to recall what went wrong and what has been done to cope with them, I will also encourage us to consider further discussions about the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u66	Mr. President. This is a major report on growth. First, I would like to commend those who worked the report for her presentation, which is available. You can see in the introduction that those who have been using it have been very concerned about the best way to approach the subject, and it seems to me that the results are very beneficial. Of course, the report, and it's stated in its introduction too, by the management department, it's prepared in the councils and the reports of the institutions discussed, at least is turned to them. Of course, without wanting to do any of the above, the content of this report in any way would be suspicious to people who are related to it and who have even been involved in the past. To say that I have no particular reason to disagree with the content of the report, and I'm not doing it at all. If reports and updates are requested, we will know what is going on here and, as far as we know about it, that reports are made and then there will be very little to do. I think the basic idea is... paritaprevir The Gunnarsson of Leví was trying to make sure that this was done and that it was possible to determine that it was done. It brings to mind that in general, when such reports are made, any of them, they should either be an action list in the ones they could monitor or that those with the report are immediately directed on the task of setting up such a list to process the report and indications there, just so that they can be monitored and found out that these tasks are being performed. Of course, it has to be said that, as it is, not all the volumes that are in this report, 5,000 pages, remind me that it was not available for each person to read in 20 volumes. It's kind of hard to take care of yourself that everything has been done. But let us only turn to the fact that the contents of this fine summary are, of course, evident, and that it is very enjoyable, that the vast majority of the tips presented in the study reports have been considered and carried out in various ways. Out of standing, and in some cases there are, of course, given an explanation, several indications in which the answer is: No, nothing has been done. Of course, it's only natural to do so, i.e. What is the reason why this has not been done, whether it has not been counted necessary or the circumstances have changed, etc. If so, at least a person has a brief overview of what remains to that extent. Then, of course, there are a few things there, such as not too many, there are 151⁄220 points in the entire report, where the answer is yes in part, yes to a certain extent, and yes to the extent that it is appropriate. There may be a space of interpretation that is important to look at and review. Of course, much has changed since the collapse of all these reports. In my opinion, it does not in itself have a great purpose of going back there and wondering exactly what went wrong, but rather, " What have we done? ' How has the response been made? I think that in many ways we have responded well and put in a number of leaks. We may think things differently. We have become more formal in the administration and in our decisions. We use more intensive policy measures, and we also use tools that weigh the pros and cons. The previous speakers have studied various aspects of the legislation, and I'm not going to repeat it. There is, of course, something else that is important for us to keep in mind when we consider what we have done to cope with the shock we experienced - we have done so in many ways, it says in this report - it is almost certain that we are experiencing some kind of economic breakdown. We can always reduce the likelihood of this by being cautious and observing all developments, and of course, we always have tools and tools to try to do so. We, too, kept that in place at the time when we got off track. Yet, what we can be sure of is that the next shock will not be like the last one. It will be different, though only for the reason that we've changed all kinds of plays in an effort to achieve a single collapse. But that does not mean that it cannot be otherwise. I think that all of this is a very good reason for us all to insist that everything we do, all of our policies and decisions, needs to be well thought of. We need to keep a close eye on the development of certain things. We know that there will never be an accident in some way, either deliberately or that circumstances in society will become such that they do so. The main lesson for me is that we must always be on guard, and we must always be careful and prepare to cope with all kinds of situations. I am absolutely convinced that we are better off in general view, i.e. We've made some dramatic changes. We have also only changed our thinking that way, I think, and I hope at least, that we want to behave in a way that we can do everything we can to prevent similar traumas. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u67	Mr. President. A few words from me on what is particularly involved in this matter. It is the first to prepare the General Assembly for a report by forming a special committee, a Senate Committee, prepared for the preceding month to accept the product. This committee worked a great deal in 2010 and self-reported and proposed a resolution on the improvement and resolution of the Council on the subject adopted by the European Parliament on September 28, 2010. If a few of the main results are summed up by a report by the Council of II, which turned to the General Assembly, it may have been said that they needed to increase the independence of the council against the Commission, should be more emphasised on the role of the Senate and increased professionality in preparing legislation. The Parliamentary Committee itself gave a number of tips in its report, and they are in part recorded in the synopsis. It suggested, first of all, that members of Congress set up a moral code, that the Senate's surveillance role must be strengthened, that the right to information and access to professional counseling, should carefully consider the position of the administration at the General Assembly, that the Council should be given a yearly report on the conduct of the Parliament and on the matters referred to by the Council of Congress. At the same time, the Parliamentary Commission proposed a general law on research committees. Is it not bad to say that all of this has worked out? In 2011, the WHO's surveillance role was greatly improved and strengthened by the development of a administrative and surveillance committee, which has well defined the role and strong mandate for monitoring on the part of the Generalis in these topics. The World Congress Code was late set for 2016, the Committee on Study Committees as noted, and other matters could be gleaned. It is a joy to know that during this terms of election, this project has taken a turn, and the Council has been greatly strengthened in this respect and is, in fact, a large part of it. conducted with the support of regulations in the government covenant of the present government. Thus a number of additional experts have been hired into the General Assembly, the Department of Legal Affairs has been strengthened, the members of Congress are increasing, and the members of Congress are much better prepared. A new bill is now being reviewed by the management and monitoring committee for the review of the Constitutional laws that continue on this course. It contains, for example, Suggested that the Agency's surveillance role also includes so - called independent government and that information to the Council requested from councils and public agencies should be returned without cost from the Council, since it has even happened to have been necessary to have requested documents requested by the Council for its own surveillance. It is, therefore, a pleasure to have this fine report at the top. The prime minister gives a very positive conclusion in terms of our general response to the indications and proposals of the II Parliamentary Committee, and we can say on behalf of the Council that we too have lived up to what we ourselves set to do in 2010. During the ten years, therefore, there has been good use of Icelandic administrations, and especially the financial environment, to improve the legal environment, to promote administration, and to try with all available means to prevent the types of disaster that we experienced in 2008. It is also a joy to see that measurements of trust show that there is a general rise in institutions and governments, including the General now being more confident and during the days, having their best measurement from before collapse.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u68	A respectable president. Here we will discuss the report by the Prime Minister on tips relating to the Commission in the General Research Report on the Causes of the Fall of the Icelandic Banks in 2008. The report is very extensive, whole 400 pages, and will probably never be the most read book in the country - I think it is more than a report. It provides a detailed analysis of the indications in the government reports. According to the report, most indications have been obtained. As an example of improvements, there are laws on public finances, new laws on the Management Board of Iceland, reorganization of the financial system, increased emphasis on ethics, improvements in government operations, etc. No doubt, there are some examples in the report that have responded without political consent to respond. There is no need to consult beyond the vote for a protective line on investment banking - we do not agree on how to ensure adequate separation between business banking and investment banking. It would have been better to get a summary of the number of indications and how many indications had been responded and how many people had not responded. After searching the document, I have concluded how many times the news editors feel the lack of indication has been responded. This is a indication from the study report. 23 on page 24. 55, No. 85 on page 8. 106, No. 87 on page 30. 108, No. 158 on page 20. 167, No. 230 on page 20. 253 and No. 249 on page 8. 283. From a report on the apartment loan fund, there are indications. 39, 40, and 41 on page 20. 325, No. 46 on page 46. 328 and a report on the fall of the savings budget on the indication No. 21 on page 20. No. 30 on page 20. 360 and 35 on page 20. 365. So that's at least 13 cases with no therapeutic indication considered by the Rapporteur. There are some cases with partial response. In some cases the lack of response has not been made because the indications are no longer applicable, e.g. ... becausethefinancing has been setup. In some cases the lack of response has been made because the indications are incompatible with policy measures, such as the No. 249, that there is a clear limit between the tasks that are normally hidden by government and private sources. This point was based on how prominent business partners were in the process of sponsoring cultural, cultural, and social institutions. According to one report, it would be contrary to government cultural policies to limit business support to social or cultural projects. Interesting tips. First of all: There is no obligation to limit the use of investments by the highest executives in their own name, No. 23rd It's reprehensible. Reports do not appear to require such changes due to general interest advice, e.g. The law on partnerships and financial law. A group of people want to go further on these topics, and we even have them. further guidelines for the head of pension funds will be submitted to prevent them from doing business in their own accounts of stocks or bonds associated with their pension fund. Second, no indications have been received about Iceland's president's access to the trades and partnerships of Icelandic businessmen and partners. It gives several examples of how the president of Iceland wrote foreign politicians and heads of state on behalf of the Icelandic party and spoke highly of the individual. The report states that the president believes that it may be considered that the office of the president of Iceland should be passed and that it is up to him. The president of Iceland certainly plays a vital role in a national and national presentation, but it is important that the office meets specific rules in preventing conflicting interests and ensuring that the office does not write in behalf of certain parties without fully studying their business history, etc. Then you may wonder whether it is reasonable for a national ruler to write a letter of recommendation. Finally: This report shows that we can respond and learn from mistakes. It also shows how unprepared we were for the economic breakdown. We have learned from past mistakes, but we are not expelled from that school. Truly, the global epidemic has shown us that we can never guarantee ourselves in the back and behind. We need to continue to reevaluate the legal environment and procedures, taking the lead in reducing the sudden economic catastrophes that always take the worst out of the population in the country. The surrie of the collapse was not struck at home. Other tens of thousands of homes were taken from people, from families. The reason for this has not been fulfilled. The legal interests of the households have demanded that these matters be settled. It is a serious matter for families to have lost their homes because of a bank crash, because irresponsible bankers went disaster and caused great economic damage. This has to be done. We have to finish the deal, sooner I don't think it's going to be okay. Once it is done, we must also make sure that those who became ill out of that business are exonerated.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u69	Mr. President. Thank you for your important discussion and for your report. Although there is nothing new in it, it is quite accomplished. A lot has been done in improving the financial system's order after the collapse of the bank, and, of course, I welcome it. Many things are taking place, but time is very short. First thing I want to do is move on to tip No. 43 on page 24. 74 of the report on loans to the head of financial companies and business rights. There are stricter rules in matters, of course, that are more important than we saw. During this month, Anion Bank produced a vast business plan for managers and employees at less than 2 billion dollars. We've got options and a bonus. A bonus is simply a fine word for invigorating, and a bonus is allowed according to the rules except 25% of the annual fees. V.E.G. In contrast, Bjarni Benediktsson's financial minister has been a spokesman for raising the country's share to 100%. The bonuses at Arion Bank depend on the bank's gaining more profit than other banks. In other words, it is promoting a risk affinity in order to achieve better interest. This can result in the result of society as far as we know from the 2008 collapse of the banks. The number of banks in the United States was very rapid, followed by their privatization and high risk ratios. These prenuptial contracts and prospective bonuses at Arion Bank are certainly in accordance with the FME rules. However, what scares them is that if the independence party's plans work and both state banks become privateized, it will probably happen that the pressure to make changes in the rule book will be high and the need to lower the financial share of banks and some politicians will play along, just as they play through sales in central U.S.A. Bank. Then the purpose is to make more money for the owner. There is a risk to society if the bank's capital is dropped like bank owners in private interest. There must be enough money in the banks to deal with any future fluctuations, etc. Next, there is a demand to pay a huge amount of petition in the banks. All of this is a familiar theme, and the secretary of finance is certainly a cheerleader for bankers when it comes to raising their requests. You may wonder: " What are they paying in the banks for? Are the managers of the bank making up something new? No, it isn't. It is simply making money, bringing money from pensions and possessions, and for this, some receive high rates of compensation. It should also be kept in mind that, despite a new rule, financial companies have tried to run into vastly greater purchases and proposals than domestic regulations, and they have been called "new names" such as "B" letters. Mr. President. We don't have much time. Despite the fact that this report contains a tenth of the changes in order following the collapse of the bank, the Icelandic government is still a long way behind the implementation of EU regulations for financial markets. Thus, the system is disintegrated and not as well prepared for external trauma. For example, there are so - called MiFID rules, which depend on the trade and sale of stocks and were introduced into Europe after the 2008 financial collapse. MifID II rules of stock markets were introduced in Europe 2018. It has not been fully implemented here, therefore the situation of its induction and related regulations needs to be answered. Mr. President. If time allowed, I would have wanted to put in a number of other things like the authority of the management department to do business on the market. [[The president calls.]] What has changed in this regard? Can employees still employ stocks and bonds? For example, where are those rules? There are some who do not care, but I thank you for the discussion and thank you very much. Prime Minister for the talk and this report. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u70	A respectable president. The main inhabitants of the collapse, the enemy forces, agree on at least One, that the crash should be caused by others. On the other hand, it is the opposite group and the mood defects of some individuals there or the outside forces to teach. Neither is correct, as can be seen clearly from the General's research report and the fine follow-up reports discussed here. The collapse was caused by a weakness in our own systems, the financial and political systems, and the rest of the systems, since this was at the same time a breakdown of morals, self - image, and culture. When international banking crisis struck, our systems proved to be particularly fragile, with tragic consequences for their homes and their entire population. We were like the fishermen in the Smug, told one of the main people in an interview during a rare period of earnestness; the financial system itself offered up financial management, it had become shameful, and politicians were viewed as critical of the brands of feasting. As a result, the foundation of trust fell on society's institutions, including this institution here. Although reliable readings indicate that the cow is being straightened out, there are some of the weaknesses still present that were drawn up in the study report at the time. This report is important in the effort to restore and rebuild trust, which is a democratic necessity. The building of the report is so attributed to indications and answers as to whether they have responded, and then they are quick to reason. The report shows that we as a community have learned much from the collapse. However, it also shows that these are items of assessment, such as the rest of the day. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson departed earlier. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to move a little toward one of these indications on page 261◯262. It points to a report by the work group on morals and behavior, which was that Icelandic politicians are characterized by regimes in which point - wise groups play a key role, and this increases the risk of arbitrary decisions. This is justified by regularly renewing their authority to the voters, but in between, they have more and less free hands. It is also noted that the decision of the voters is not working well because the majority of the categories go free to vote. Voters don't know how conglomerate governments will be formed after the election. In this regard it is required that the separating of the European Commission and legislation of the European Commission be one of the basic democratic governmental directives and the Senate should monitor the implementation of the European Commission. The framework of the leadership and harsh majority - the winner shepherds the pot - the weak role, according to this report. The conclusion is that the Constitution would need to be taken for a systematic review to trust the basics of democracies and better explain the primary obligation, responsibility, and role of rulers. The question is, as with any other indication, has this indication been answered? The answer is yes, and then a rather far - reaching issue of the curved revision process of the constitution comes from collapse. A thorough answer and a good one, but I don't quite know if it deserves the yes that precedes it. A respectable president. Is the Constitution being taken for a systematic review to trust the basics of the democratic community and to better explain the primary obligation, responsibility, and role of rulers? That's what I'm talking about. You'll think of a Eldjárn like that, by permission of a president: ▪ I want to be positive, but most of the time I get Jewy. It's a little yes-like answer: Yes, yes, yes. When you look at this report, there's a lot about yes. There's a lot of yes, but when you look better, it turns out there's more: Yeah, yeah. Maybe. Even: Well. Even: No.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u71	A respectable president. I am no special spokesman for the reports as they have been carried out in this country, in fact, they have no history far back in time but only after the fall of banks in 2008. I am no special spokesman for spending much time and energy on it. This is not because I don't think that there can be no helpful tips when people go through things and look back. It would be better now if men couldn't find their way to any good tips. I think that in the General's study report, all the research reports, there have been a number of useful tips on what might be considered in our country, and the same can be said of the report presented here, the report of the reports, reviewing certain aspects of these studies. But my attitude toward these reports in general is that they have been carried out in the first place in the atmosphere of a certain emotion. This was adopted at the General Assembly of December 2008, shortly after the fall of banks, that the first study report should be conducted. It took two years and more to produce that report, it was published in 2010. At the same time, additional study reports were conducted. All this cost reminds me that if not more, it's more than 1.5 billion. The scope of each study report is up to 5,000 pages in 20 volumes, and here we have a new report to 400 pages. I don't know what this report has cost, but it's cost. It would be nice to get it out, the work that has taken place and the expense of it. As I say, the problem with these reports is, of course, the atmosphere in which they have been put. I am reminded, just as one example of what I might mention as an air indicator, that the bishop of Iceland suggested it to all the churches of the country, when the General's study report came out of the causes and leading to the fall of banks, that this report would lie in all the churches of the country, much less, and would possibly disseminate the other book, though it may not have been passed by a bishop. But such was the emotion in these matters. It may not be good if a person wants to take an organized stand for such a situation. This request from Pirata also reflects what I find a problem with research reports like this. It burns that there is much more to it than the material that mattered. It hurts when men get stuck in the form and this system of ours. Now there are a lot of politicians that need to be improved, that's all about our systems. So this report is burnt and other research reports. I think that Piratar mentioned, I read about it, I don't know if it's entered the council, that there has to be an investigation in the pathological procedures and all the procedures related to the pandemic today. I feel the same way too. Of course, humans are occupied with the form. But I'll be aware that men have been reluctant to speak up, participate in discussions, take the initiative even here at the council on these matters, this same sect, this whole year. But up to one point, it is important to have a research report on the subject. I was amazed to see at the dance council, where the board is now just very similar to ours in Iceland, that for the first time there was launched a study with a publication of a report a few weeks ago. This was, in fact, due to the risk management procedures and the pandemic procedures. But it was the first time that the council joined in the work of making a so - called study report. In fact, I think there are a few things we could learn from that report, even though in itself I will not oppose the idea that men will go through and look back in time when it will be time for a showdown or some sort of at least review of the PVR procedures and the activities of others in a pandemic. But I think that much more important is that people participate in discussions about the matter at the time of the event. The same can be said of the General's research report on the collapse of the bank, as well as for all the follow-up philosophers who are reviewed in all of this. It will come back to you, for example. It was up to me that Aldulis's agent pointed out, and he was, in fact, one of the authors of the study report of his time, that it had been violated by the introduction of European rules, and it would not have been tried to adapt the rules to the environment of this country. I'm sure this still applies to me. But that does not change the fact that there were few people who foretold that other rules should apply in this country than in Europe. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I'm walking in time with my colleague with his warrant. This does not change the fact that no one spoke for it at this time. [[The president calls.]] For this reason, it may be noted that the Icelandic government was living so well that throughout the country, all of its outlets worked an entirely independent government office. it should be reported if there were legitimate laws and such is, for example, the office of the emissary of the Generals. But under the law on him, if he becomes aware that there are any prejudices in the current law or general government decrees, let him announce it to the Council, the local minister, or the local government. This is what I take as an example of the metaphysics that are presented in a discussion on these matters. Now I don't realize the clock, but if it's a sign of the president, my time has passed. Of course, not all of us have had time to discuss perhaps what is most important, what is going to be done with this report again and again. They may be hanging themselves on to these matters well into the past century.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u72	Mr. President. I agree with the importance of this report, which is about other older and longer reports and that considers it necessary, thanks to it. It is an impenetrable way to discuss such a large report over a period of an hour or two, Mr. President, but one of the indications in the AWA report indicated that better legalization of the topic areas covered by the report. It is, in fact, there. Interestingly, a special office was set up in the Ministry of Presidency, which will conduct quality surveillance in preparing prime signals and administration, thus passing through a total of 21 phasest. It is as if by now all efforts to make the project even better equipped to prepare and negotiate a law, as it has actually been for a long, long time and a great deal of money. I miss just how little has really been done here at the legislature itself in these matters. I would have thought money would have been well spent in order to help members of the Parliament and members of the Parliament. The report we will discuss here is 369 pages. I have to admit, I didn't quite finish my reading. But for fun, I set up a search term for a home. At that time, there were five search results that contained home on all those under 400 pages, but none of them came into the home's difficulties following the collapse of the bank, five words, none of which were in the process of legalizing the administrative affairs in the country. The first search site was that home and school had published a brochure. That conclusion came two times. A second search site was the study of family studies that dealt with studies in schools. A third search site was about a home, where information was discussed in the media as a result of possession. It said that it was in general that those who shrimped homes put forth more effort to pay back than business owners. Mr. President. Yes, it is. The central category has been working on this and will request in the following days that a report on the consequences of losing banks in the country will be submitted in a thorough manner to include how homes and families came out of banks'collapses, both economic and social consequences for homes and families, even if only because of the fact that more than 10,000 families, men, women, and children were thrown out of their homes after the bank crash. That's how it's going to be Researching the reason why financial companies were given almost unorthodox permission to spread thousands of people. It will also discuss the measures taken by the government to protect the household, where these measures were entrusted, how they proved to be, and what they were made of, if any, data. This report would bear the title of a home study report, as has long been called upon by the National Aggressive Organization. There the collapse of the bank would be established on the grounds of the country's homes. But that's not done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u73	V.E.G. President. I can't say that I am a popular fan of the reports and particularly not a study report made under very special circumstances, when the nation was upset after a terrible shock when the world's financial system collapsed. However, reports can always be of some benefit, and there are various indications in the Generals' study, particularly in the legal environment and in terms of government issues, especially in the financial system in terms of the legal environment and in terms of the administrative matters. Some of these tips are helpful. This is almost inevitable when a person looks at matters in a very serious way. Others were aware of my record of misunderstandings. This may especially apply to the ethics of the report, and other indications are very controversial and even out - of - date today. But you feel it here, after listening to this discussion, that the senators still act like the bank crash was some special, even home-made thing in Iceland, and not having any effect on anyone except here and here, it's all been in pieces, here the management board has been in disintegrating, the law in disintegration, the Constitution in the marum. It wasn't, and maybe because in many ways we are smarter than many others, or we could work out this much faster, we had probably achieved the best standard of living in the whole world as early as 2016, while other nations are still dealing with the consequences, and nothing has gone and nothing has changed. I think we need to get out of this, and we don't do that by asking for a report like this. I do not agree with many who have said that this report we have under discussion is of great value. She doesn't tell me anything, so it's useless, and it's expensive. How much wiser it would have been to have such a request so that some specific feature would have been discussed! This may be useful in individual cases. This type of report puts half the Board of Directors in work for months at great cost, but it doesn't tell us anything. I can assure you that the end of this day will be no more discussion, and no more will ever worry about anything. I believe the money spent in this report would have been better spent driving costs for senators to care for their voters. I'm sure the money would be better used in this way. Finally, I just want to say that we're always, every day here, every week, every month, trying to improve the legal environment, to improve the European Commission, to improve the administrative process. It's a constant project, and we're always working on it. Of course, we always learn from experience. The experience of the bank collapse teaches us. The world has learned from this. We've made a lot of changes that we're all aware of, and we don't need a report. The key point is that we know how to learn from experience.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u74	Mr. President. I appreciate the discussion. Congress seems to find it indiscriminate. There's not many of them. Senators of the council who were still here in the collapse, but I'm one of them. So I know the work routine that was customary for them as well as for the Board of Directors when I took over as Minister of 2009 and can tell those who believe that such reporting is totally useless, and much of what has been done, that it really is important. I know that there are skysavers and between operations, whether at the Board of Directors or at the Council, and part of it has been due to indications in the General's study report, part of which has occurred in the natural way, through discussions and experience of those who passed through this, and part of it has been due to new decisions. But let us not belittle the importance of learning lessons from what happens. It is important to be ready to learn. In view of the tremendous change in the Council since collapse - I think we may be seven, eight, still here and nine who have not been able to get out of a collapse, so that in every election, there has been a great renewal - it is important that we consider that what we can call the root memory, whether in the Council of Control or in the World Council, we do not tear down the knowledge that has been created. Of course, this work is important to keep our mind on the knowledge and experience we had taken out of the collapse. Here we will discuss quite a few things that are not contained in the report. I would like to remind you that the report was, of course, a request for certain factors, i.e. review of all indications observed in specific study reports. Hv. Some members of the council have asked: " Why isn't there something else here? But the request was made, so the report is just about what it was supposed to be about. It is true that some of the things that were discussed after the collapse of some sort of postmortem philosophy can be called. This is not to say, however, that there have been some warnings before a collapse, so there is more to it than follow - up philosophy. I'm not shy about recalling to make up my own party at the General for a crash, which may include: warning of things that could be anticipated in the crash, there is nothing to be overlooked and that all of this can be overreached as a matter of metaphysics. However, it is as if what I found helpful in this work -- it may well be that we do this and we are not going to do anything more about it than it is the most important decision of the council - that it is interesting to go over the tips and really see the tremendous changes that have been made in the governance and especially in the financial system. It is not only a change in the European Regulation, which is certainly extensive in some areas but also the changes we have made as an Icelandic community. Then it is logical to ask: How does a report such as this help us in the next posttraumatic event that the situation will be different from that of the European community? The current election period has not been unsurpassed, nor has it been difficult to mention pandemics but also other challenges, and it is important to learn from the work done, especially when it comes to a system of government that is so important that people work together, coordinate their work together, and thus make right decisions, that things are recorded, and that many are being studied in the subject to make the best decisions for society. Whether we are having a pandemic or a knock, that work is always appropriate. So perhaps the most important lesson is how we do our work, not exactly the unique changes that have been made to individual components in isolated systems. Otherwise, I just want to thank you for this discussion, Mr. President. I count at least that this report tells us that the study reports were taken seriously, they failed, and many of these have been greatly improved.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u75	V.E.G. President. I hereby make a proposal for a hearing of protection and the preservation of ships and boats. Besides me, the movers are on the motion. Councilmen Árnadóttir Kolbröndnad, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Bergishór Þórarinsson, Birgggnarsson, Gunnar Sæmundsson Sveinsson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjánsdótir, Karl Gauti Einar Hjaltason, Rafney Háfney Magnúsdóttir Magnússson, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson's Ísleifsson, Þorgerður Katrín Gunnarsdóttir Gónsdonsdótir, and Þólætsteinna Sóðmundsson. The motion says so, with the permission of the president: "The General concluded to hide the Minister of Education and Culture to order a team of workers to evaluate the protection and preservation of ships and boats and to make plans for reform. The population will include An overview of ships and boats of cultural and professional value, regardless of age, and reviewing the dates of ships and boats under cultural law, No. 80/2012. In groups of work, members of a group of members who are on the protection of ships and boats, representatives from the branches of the sea road, representatives of the local departments, and representatives of the Ministry of Education and Culture, the National Museum of Iceland and the Minjah Institute for Iceland. The staff will also be assigned to find the budget or funding routes for the project and shape the rules on how to handle the budget. The staff will submit their assessment and proposals for education and cultural ministers within one year from the approved proposal. Secretary introduces the results of the Group's work group to the General Assembly. According to a paper with the proposal, this arrangement was introduced before the 150th legislature but not granted and is now reassigned. "May 9, 2000, the General Assembly adopted the resolution of No. 18/125, on the preservation of boats and ships. In this arrangement, the government is commissioned to prepare proposals for the preservation of old ships and boats, much less important for employment and community history, as well as to shape funding regulations and define the maintenance of boats and ships. The Ministry of Education was entrusted with the implementation of the resolution on behalf of the government. During discussions with Kolbrún Halldórsdóttir request for preparation on how to preserve old ships and boats with cultural value, cr. The resolution of the General Assembly of May 9, 2000 (428th Act at the 131th Court), noted that a committee had been proposed in a 2002 memoir. Then it was also noted that the proposals were for a special examination of a minister and that national law should be reviewed, No. 107/2001. Law on Cultures, No. 80/2012, even solved. By the laws of the Peoples. The main purpose of the law is to contribute to the protection of cultural memory and to enhance the effectiveness of a national monument. According to Article 3. The law counts as ships and boats for relics, i.e. free memory, with the ages of ships and boats set for ancient items by 1950. Here I want to stop just because some people want to deny that this is a print error or a mistake, considering this year's ratings as the dates of ships and boats that are considered relics, that it cannot stand because of the passing of time and the passing of a ship, the number of old ships. Therefore, it would be better to turn it into 50 years of age and older, so that this law would last a long time, just like an ancient car with no annual number of 25 years of age or older. So it would have to be changed and it is urgent that it be done. I'll continue, with President's permission: "Then, the archaeology of any kind of human being, on land, on earth, in glacier, in sea, or in water, on which men have done or done human work and are 100 years of age and older..." - that is 100 years in other cultures supporting what I was saying was supposed to be 50 years old and older, not to date a certain year. - "To building posts, however, there are houses and other structures and individual parts of those with cultural, scientific, or artistic value, sir. Section 4. The law. Many ships and boats have been built here. It is important to keep knowledge of old boats and ships built, and more than that, it has educational value. Thus an old ship could be used to train young ones and to use a ship for teaching. This is just a very good indication of cultural values, as well as the suggestion to introduce and teach young people on ships and sailors, so they know where we came from and how it was in the past, so it is very important to train young people and encourage them to do this work or to study it. If I continue: "There have also been many organizations and organizations that have taken on the maintenance of ships and boats, and that without their assistance the ships and boats, which are cultural value and the heritage of crafts, had been destroyed. According to the movers, it is important to give support to this organization. The purpose of this recommendation is to evaluate the protection and preservation of ships and boats, including based on cultural laws, as well as a summary of ships and boats thought to have cultural and professional values, regardless of age, in order to get a complete picture of the situation. At the same time, the task force is expected to make some adjustments. It is important that the task force considers whether there is a basis for protecting ships and boats with security values that will be comparable to the protection of buildings. At the same time, the task force considered whether the date limit for the year falls to the date of the year, to aim at 50 years of age and older, but not at annual rates, as in the law, to be said again. So this suggestion is about getting the group mentioned at the outset to examine all these factors from all aspects of the matter and how it has been accomplished, why we have failed to achieve better results in the preservation of ships and boats, and what better way to do so, so that we can learn from mistakes that have been made in those areas. It has to be said, as it is, that this has been on a joint project with housemines and more energy and money, and that it requires learning, so that we can focus on keeping ships and boats better. There are some things you can learn, and we have a recent example of this, the highest. President. Recently, the news contained a huge boat in the Western Islands called Ethiopia. It is built at some point in the late 1930's and served as a display. Then, in the midst of a storm, he goes onto a fleet. It's pulled across the harbor and it's sinking, at the bottom of the dock for a few days, and it's picked up and it's natural that it's both damaged and badly gone, and it takes a lot to fix it. Then, in the fall, men were giving up on this task, of course, out of money. I was reading news and saw that the owners of these great boats were being challenged to see and to wait. The story says, with permission from the President: "The European Commission of the European Council encourages the Western European Commission's Commission for reviewing their decision to dispose of BlueVE 21 and to consider the historical importance of the ship and its conservation value. This agrees with the Holvinists of Huna II, Akureyri, and Magna, in Reykjavík. It also says that Ethiopia must not be Blátindur and that all means must be sought to save it. But these are expensive assignments, and they need money. And how sad it is that we should be seeing this boat's mark even being discarded! We can also name a boat in the collection of Acdéri, a cowtter Sigurs, that has been on the land for 30 years and is now active, since wooden boats need to be on the sea to last. It is intended to be discarded. Perhaps it could be saved by putting it on where he is, just so that his appearance would remain intact. But that's what you could keep counting. We cannot control this assignment. We talk a lot on days, but we do little. We're talking memory, we're talking about wealth and culture. We came across the sea when Iceland was studied at its time on ships and boats and if we can't keep the cultural value that still exists that has not been destroyed, at some point where we can be proud of it. I think it's one of our priorities to get our hands on this matter and put it in place that it's okay. As I say, it's expensive, but cultures like these old ships and boats are priceless. No, it is not something to look for. It is necessary to look to the task and correct it. There are societies around the country that are filled with boats that need construction and that governments need to set energy and power.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u76	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a synopsis of electronic release of stress and tax files. In addition to this, the representatives of this matter are Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, Inga Sæland Land, and Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörðurdóttir. The suggestion itself is a simple guess, so to speak, by permission of the president: ▪ The General concludes to hide financial and economic ministers in part through electronic publication of annual pressures and tax files that will be available throughout the year until the publication of a new registry. Ministers before the General bill of this material at the spring Summit of 2021 At first glance, such proposals may work as a radical step toward increasing transparency, but they are not, in fact, because certain water divorces have taken place in how well people can see the importance of using increased transparency to build trust in the community, then the general council has taken such drastic steps a long time ago. The evidence was not invented yesterday, and the pressures of individuals have been looked up in taxpayers' records and seen there each income per taxpayer has been in recent years. For this reason, there is an old legal warrant, no law on income taxes, no. 90/2003, although the rendering of this article is still older. It says that the stress log and tax file should be displayed for two weeks in a suitable location. In fact, this synoptic proposal is to define that suitable place in line with the 21st century. Actually, the past few years have been two. On one hand, the IRS has printed the files, tied to worms, and left them in their offices for two weeks. People have been able to come and look up the ones they wanted to look up. On the other hand, such so - called income forms as what I have here have been released, with several thousand well - chosen Icelanders being compiled and published. What has happened since this account was passed into law is that a suitable location is not necessarily attached to the tax manager's office but is the most suitable place for this kind of information simply the Internet to which we all have access today. In this context it may be appropriate to review that so many tax documents are printed on the Internet today, so these files are essentially electronic from start to end until someone in the tax manager's office has to print them out and leave them in a so - called suitable place that is no longer suitable. This kind of arrangement is known elsewhere. The most famous example is probably in Norway, where the tax system has been publicized for as long as 1863 and is available electronically for 17 years. For example, Norwegians have developed their release to meet the requirements for personal protection. The Norwegian tax registers all surfaces so that the transparency runs in both directions, so that the neighbor's case cannot be stepped in without the neighbor's notice. There the thought is to grapple with the possibility of misuse of the access. And because Norway does this, since all the rules are basically the same as those of this country, it can be expected that the operation on this land would be quite simple and rather direct. This case has been presented several times before. I think it's the fifth time I've proposed this synopsis and I'm glad to relate that there's been a few developments in these developments at the time that have passed. I was standing here, for example. Just over a year ago, giving a plagion proposal at the last leg of law and pointing out that the site made a profit.is made a accessible database of tax records available for 2016, a database that saw the person handed over from the tax, which was taken down soon after the publication of the site, made doubt that there was a legal warrant for the installation and operation of an electronic database of some firm in this way. But that's the big difference, in this council resolution proposal, it's not suggested that a private car handles this. It's the tax that we trust to keep the database in order to protect the interests of those who have information in it, as well as the tax is an institution of which users can trust that the information is correct. Of course, it would be no worse than getting such a database in the air with some mistakes. A year ago, I made the same suggestion here in the symposium and shortly thereafter with Covid. The changes were then made in the terms of income taxation. It was in a coalition that financial and economic minister requested a change in various laws to face the economic effects of a pandemic crown virus, which later became the law of No. 37/2020. Then people realized that the suitable place, Skalet's office, in a pandemic, could be not only unpleasant but actually dangerous. The gathering of people from the stress logs in the taxetti offices could simply be a disease control issue. As a result, temporary regulations were set up in income tax laws that would deviate from the obligation of the head of the state tax to provide tax for each department in 2020 due to income in 2019. There was another way that you could have been able to deal with the crisis at the time of Covid-19. The other way would have been to make the changes proposed in the council arrangement I recommend here. You see, it is shocking that a majority of the economic and business committees have chosen to step aside the role involved in the publication of the registry but would not have to be taken of such measures if electronic publication had become reality, as is suggested here. Then, in the fall of the year, at the council, a bill came from the Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs, suggested to extend the provisional principle that deviates from the taxation's obligation to submit it, extended it for a year because of a pandemic. For everyone's benefit, more part of the Economic and Business Committee felt that the Minister's proposal was premature. So it was in the early fall of 2020 when it was considered deciding that the late spring of 2021 would still be such a public defense situation that people could not be gathered in the tax office for safekeeping. So the commission suggested that the provisional arrangement not be extended but declared ready to accept such an exception, became necessary. I suggest that the committee further examines whether it is possible to move the publication into temporary electronic form, the need to free the tax from inviting people in their offices to check the files. On the first discussion of this matter, several parties have turned in the reports. In particular, I would like to mention a review received from the Allied Union of Iceland. It called attention to the conclusions made by the ASSI centre who urged the Allied Council to accept electronic publications to ensure access to this important information. In both the labor movement and the educational community, you see the view that the information contained in these files not only applies to the public as it has been for decades but may even be useful in identifying e.g. the state of the labour market, the sex pay and the pay between classes. It would be very interesting to see how these vast files could be used to create better information about society so that more informed decisions can be made in the direction to go toward it, with which they are due, of course, to ensure a personal protection view. The importance of publication may not have to be varied, but it will likely have an organization that suggests that it will be put down. I now remember that young independents took up several years in a row and chained themselves to the taxicate office in order to difficult access to the registry. But this project, which is in line with the traditional practice of other northern countries, is that I think, part of the reason that in the North countries, there is a great social trust among people who live among them. Because we believe that institutions and individuals will stand up for their social duties on a point and a stick. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Excuse me, Mr. President. After that, I'd like the case to go to the Economic and Business Committee, if I recall correctly.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u77	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a synopsis of the practicality consideration of the construction of the Snæfells Road of Snæfells. Further, the movers here are aggressors. The members of Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Árnadóttir Kolbröndóttir Ólason, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, Ólafur Ísleifsson, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, Þóldur K. Gunnarsdóttir, and Þörstein Sæmundsson. The suggestion reads: ▪ The General concluded to hide transport and local government officials in part that there will be a wide range of practical checks on the construction of the Forest Coastway on the north coast of Snæfells, between the Padding Valley and the Stykisholm, as a whole well. This study will take on the social and structural effects of thus promoting transport between the settlements of northern Snæfells, about the Valley, in the Rhool Bay, the southern West, and the north on the Coast. Special attention should be given to strengthening the area as one job and service area, building tourism and road safety. The secretary will submit the results of the economic study for the General Assembly and the cost plan for building the building project at the latest, April 1, 2021. It's a little short, but let's be optimistic. A report says: This resolution proposal was previously proposed to a 148th legislature of Bjarni Jónsson and to a 150th legislature of the people here but was not supplied. The case was referred to an environment and transport committee that sent the case for review. A study of an accident rate at the roads in 2007/2010 under Þóroddur Bjarnason found that the Forest Road was one of the three most dangerous roads in the country, no less or less. There is no reason to believe that this situation has changed for the better, since news of traffic accidents on this road is often hard to deal with. Clearly, he does not depend on the traffic in the area or on his role in forming a well - established bonding relationship between settlements where it lies. Maintenance and improvements in this road have virtually not been made in recent years and decades, and little attention has been given to it that the importance of communication between communities and the growth of tourism and trade in these areas. The whole road is in low ground along the sea, and there is no mountain road to go that is the first to be blocked by weather or snowlike conditions. Thus, it would be effortless to maintain the built - up road of wood all year long. In Parliamentary Reconception No. 41/150 on transport protocol by 2020 2020, reports that the cost of construction at Forest Coast Road is 4 billion. During the first period, 2020,2024, 100 million are going. K. In construction on the road, 850 million. K. During the second period of the program, 2025◯2029, and during the third, 2030,20234, 3.1 billion. The date for the completion of the project has not yet been established, but it is clear from a transport program that will not be at least over the next 15 years, the highest. President. That's a long time. Such waiting for needed improvements in the road is unacceptable and important that early funding be ensured. As early as the construction of Forest Coast Ways, it is required that he no longer become an accident trap and be properly assigned to transport. With the expansion of the migration of northern Snæfells and the interior of the British world, new opportunities open up to a variety of cooperations and improved services, such as health and education. As is the case today, the inhabitants of the settlements that will be linked together with a well - built road through Forest Coasts usually travel a long distance in order to cross areas, although it is possible to get through the rough road of the year as it is today. These settlements are to be fought in a professional and regional way, some of them. In view of increased tourism, the area is filled with natural phenomena, history, and cultural traditions that could support the structure of tourism if transportation was readily available. The draft proposal is designed to help achieve the structure of this important transport sector as soon as possible. This is especially true when we examine the importance of such improvements and provide stronger reasons for speeding up the structure of this road. That's what the report says. The concluding words show that there has to be a stronger prerequisite for the speed of development. It reminds you that we've often talked about the state of our transportation here in the country at least. ten years after the season, ten years after the need, if not more. Thus, along with other projects, we need to search all the ways to speed up this road, on roads that need building up. V.E.G. President. I'd like to quote the reviews of January 2020, which were sent at the time of a short and long term transport process. There's a platoon leader at each end of this road, i.e. The governor of Burgur Valley and the mayor of Stykkisolmi, who I intend to quote only, on leave, with the highest power. President. The review of Kristuns the Kristján of Sturluson, governor of the town of Dala, points to the following: To improve the quality of life in the country by improving transport and by strengthening the basics needed to promote a variety of work and to improve competitiveness, such as by improving access to services. Then again, the headline says: It is clear that the Dalas farms are not large in transport and late activities, and the objective of the transport programme is not being met, but all of the above are key elements for improving the quality of living in the Dalasavair and improving the urban development. This is correct in reviewing the case of Kristján Sturluson, chief of the country in the region of Dalai. So says: ▪ The Dalada region's economy has a worse outcome, with a ratio of almost as many rural communities over the road with a bound fragment. Road accidents are also the highest rate in the Dala region, with the fifth most dangerous road system in the country according to a report entitled Western Transportation Programme, produced by the Federal Association in the Westland in 2017. Recently, information has been drawn that 54 Roads are another of the most dangerous roads in Western lands. Since it was written, nothing has changed. The mayor of Stykisholmi, Jakob Björgvin Jakobsson, sent a detailed review of the proposals that were being discussed last year. That, in fact, is what the Bible Since Forest Coastal Road is part of the network under transport protocol, it might be expected that it would be a priority to plan for transport, such as its aims, but it would not be reflected in the existing transport programme. Therefore, it is unavoidable to require that the existing transport programme be changed in terms of the importance of the road as part of the network of the transport system, and the implementation of projects will be accelerated so that the road will be established during the first period of transport. The town government gives ample evidence to support its case, including the U.S. that the present state of Forest Coastal Straits Straits, instead of a good road, would improve cooperation and contribute to harmony. He runs social and based effects on road reforms, including the U.S. Farm, employment, climate, and school applications. The road, in fact, worked as a speed inhibition of job development and construction in the region, especially in the Dala, as well as for a number of companies. Today's situation is unannounced. It's been a long time. Then Jakob Björgvin points out that the road to the Forest Coast is among the most dangerous areas in the country, and with the present state, he inhibits the development of tourism and reduces the development of tourism. V.E.G. President. This is very clear in both of these rural governments, on either side of the discussion, what the situation is. It's actually telling you, once again, that it's forgotten. It's just forgotten to go on these projects. The word has build-up on the road system in Snæfells, south of the city's fun and to Reykjavík and north. But this chapter, into Forest Beach and Dali, and the link to the road that has been built up to the east end, we can say, has been forgotten, he has sat on the other side. Maybe you can put it under your hat too much courtesy. I don't know. They were so beautiful at the time when the road came across the Sea Route of Snæfells, such as, the release of the old Kerning Pass, made it impossible for them to hear almost the history of northern Snæfellnes and also south. They became so happy that this road was not given much publicity thereafter. But it's about time. We're gonna have to go for this. The evidence for this is natural safety, as well as job structure in the region, and so is the tourist stream, which hopefully starts this year in some way, and as heavy transport. This will shorten the way north and west, on the West, and on the north. Heavy vehicles driving heavy loads north and west, south of the West, and north, do not go this way because the road is ruined. They go for a 50 miles [50 km] longer to be sure of getting there, for better than that. The structure of the road would provide them with transport and all that has been listed here. I'm going to make this my concluding statement: Often it was needed, but now it's time to build a forest road.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u78	A respectable president. As mentioned in the case of what? The senator, I am one of the couriers of this matter. I want to thank you for the opportunity to lend my support, and I now feel that it is appropriate to thank also those who first presented the case here at council, why? Bjarni Jónsson's deputy member, who has been a zealous advocate of transport improvement in the area. Although all of us live here on one road, this quarter can be seen all over the world. There's holes everywhere. It could be called Waters Road or Smoke Beach or Hig Arane, or the roads all over Aarnesfjords. It's got a lot of broken pots. But this piece, the Forest Coast Road, seems so manageable. It's a lowland road. It's not a big deal to do this, and he would link up two knots in the fourth, since it's going to have to be a huge bypass route to this area. The Senator said he'd forgotten. That's exactly the problem, and what I always do: Why did you forget about it? What caused this bone to be cut between two urban areas in a Western country long ago? Although I've gladly jumped from being an importer in this matter, I don't understand why we need this case. It's a question of whether or not. A senator can help me with the gaps there.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u79	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for the counter, and he happily agrees. Bjarni Jónsson's deputy made this case here as a deputy senator, and I was kindly granted permission to steal it. So the credit is to him because it has been given first, it is kindly and obligatory to say. Why have you forgotten? I was just talking about it in the talk earlier that people were so happy that the road was moved to the lake route, and the Kerning Pass was canceled. There were all kinds of ideas going on there before that. Brattley was built up. Since then, the Valley of Honppa had come up above Heydal and were all sorts of plans for the future building up in these roads. But for some reason this chapter has been forgotten, and that is sad. Maybe we could blame the crash. It was before a crash. There are a number of factors that can be blamed. Then there's the Eel vibrato that needs to be bridged and that's a project that's probably something we need to solve. Not only is it a small project, but there is also an environmental point there. I'm thinking that this is all connected to each other in that it's been missed. But this beautiful land, the Valleys, and the Forest Coast, the Snæfellsness - in the Netherlands, is the largest of the dirt roads on the land and the like in Hunsar County. So this area has been completely overlooked in transport.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u80	A respectable president. There are just two things I would like to mention. On the one hand, the report says, with permission from the President: So it would be effortless to keep the built - up roads open all year long. I'd like to think about that, getting experience from the activities of the road transport industry in the fourth quarter, since it is often not the roads that hinder transportation but that they are simply not out of the way, whether this is a bit of optimism for us, whether it is necessary to keep the road at all times when it comes to serving in this area during the wintertime. And then the other thing. In January, I felt a bit striking when the results came from the localisation of parts of the country that had been carried out, where the Valleys came out completely terrible. The Dead are one of the rest of the rural population that was under, most unhappy with their country society. It's a great team, I'm sure it's good to live there. Is it possible that transportation might be playing something in there? Naturally, such a small rural society cannot offer such an example. any form of recreation that people want to fill in their time. Then it may be good to go somewhere. Could it be that the illusions of a poor Forest Coast road that people can seek service outside the countryside are one of the reasons why the Valleys are as bad from these measurements as they really do? Of course, the material for this organization is all there.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u81	V.E.G. President. Thank you for the senator. The Valleys and the Valley Commission can remember their elephant more beautifully in these matters, since we're talking about population surveys. The valleys have the most beautiful countryside in the country and also the most productive. In the past, there were many large farms and great stories from the Danube, both poets and peasants, and I don't know what else. This is sad. But we can fix this by improving transportation, as we have seen. It's always the same requirement for building the country, i.e. Improved transport. The internally populated Snæfellsnes and the Damsa are completely below all the helms. I am convinced that this poll has come to this conclusion, largely because transportation is inaccessible. It's hard for the Valleys to get medical care, e.g. The hospital in Stykkisolmi and other such places, so transport can be blamed for this. Keeping the road open - it is not on the map as far as snowing or maintenance is concerned, as if it were in a better condition. If so, it would seem that he would not have to be served as much. So in the winter, only a small amount of road is used because of what conditions are like.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u82	President. I would like to recommend a interpretation of the state-of-the-art body for a state-of-the-art board. This is the sixth time I recommend this suggestion, which is interesting, I found it earlier, after being at a council for just five years. But this is the sixth time I recommend this proposal, and I sincerely hope that it will be for the last time that this proposal needs to be recommended and for the reason that it will succeed. The motion is as follows, by permission of the president: ▪ The General concludes to hide the Minister of Justice in order to appoint a group of workers to produce a reliable version of the state and a budget for the costs of using the certificate. In the line of work, representatives of Iceland's National Records, State Marshals, National Social Services, Economic Associations, and the U.S. Department of Economic and Economic Affairs are represented, as well as the Ministry of Justice. The task force then takes into account the work of specialists who are now working on a coordinated Norwegian ID or norse Minister identification panel. The Minister of Justice appoints the head of the task force. The Ministry pays expenses for the staff group and provides them with the facilities and necessary expert services. The Outfit shall render their proposal to the Minister of Justice no later than December 1, 2021. President. As far as I'm concerned, there's probably a way too much time left for this. If anyone ever had doubts that the people of this country should have provided a reliable official electronic ID, I think the person must have changed his mind in the current pandemic. I don't have a count of the trade I've had to use some kind of electronic ID in order to do the work I've done before by showing up. I have had to do so through the Internet, either by some special means for an electronic signature or by using the electronic documents available to us. There are first two kinds of IDs today, Mr. President. On the one hand, it's an Icelandic key that is sadly not appreciated as a reliable official electronic ID, is not safe enough, and is therefore not common, i.e. not eligible for all certificates required. However, there is an electronic ID on the phone that can be obtained through the company ID. They are so complete with the electronic identification that we are offering even if there are no doubt someone else on the side. There is no question that this is what we are going to do. Thus, despite the pandemic, we will continue to enjoy much of our business dealings and relationships. We can see that more and more things become electronic or digital, or what we call them, through the fourth industrial revolution and the great changes there will be. We have seen the pace in that direction by having a driver's license now electronic, etc. There's no evidence, President, that the state that makes it necessary for its inhabitants to have identification; passports, driver's license, ID - when I say I mean it, I mean, on the other hand, against the price of a tire. There is no evidence that the state should not also offer its citizens the same criteria as they can use in that location, if it can be called the Internet a place that becomes an increasingly larger part of everyday activities, activities that even require law - enforcement. I'm gonna, Mr. President, don't read me through the report, that's absolutely unnecessary. She does not need to be read up as such, but she does cover a lot of things. What has been done in many other countries is looked forward to. from Estonia, which is very early in this regard. I'd like to mention Norway, since there has been a change in the publication of identity documents to meet increasing demands. A few years ago, the Council adopted new laws that, in fact, hide. in that the police have been given the responsibility of giving a reliable ID to Norwegian citizens and citizens of other countries living in Norway, where they have rights and obligations to governments. Until that law, President, was in custody of the banks in Norway to publish electronic documents to their clients, whose representatives of the firm indicated to the government that they believe this project was better established by the official end of a administrative mission. I think this is a very reasonable position for these Norwegian companies who were once responsible for the publishing of the terms and that is on the exact basis in this case, that the state's version is a administrative project, and therefore it should be mainly on the hands of the government, such as the publication of other countries that I covered earlier. President. Finally, I would like to mention that there has been a warrant for buying the company ID for a few hours in financial terms. I think the monopoly is that we accept the proposal as soon as possible, but only from my opinion that it is a better business to have more than one option. Buying one company will affect the price of an enterprise. If there's also a chance that the state itself can produce its ID, that's what I think I'll talk to them about. President. I don't care what kind of public route it takes to publish a reliable e-mail. Above all, I care that the government will do so because that is what the people of the land deserve.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u83	President. Thank you. A senator for history. There are a couple of points that pop out, if you don't mind, when I read the report. If I remember correctly, it's only the State that can publish official identification, whether in electronic form or not. I snore about one thing: Of course, it's good for some people that their identification is available in smartphones, but by making public objects or systems more accessible through computers or smartphones, it makes it more natural for the civilian to have such devices. So I'm putting a question sign that it's really so great for everyone. When the electronic driver's license came out, I didn't quite understand what was so great about them, because what you're doing by having a driver's license on the phone and the police stop you and ask you for a driver's license, you need to open your phone to show the police license. By doing so, you have opened the door to your telephone, which contains various other information as well. This may involve a little what constitutes security, how to ensure that official or official information is safe on e.g. Smartphones. I don't know if the government is the best source of security because the government has made a very strange deal. When it comes to whether everything in this cloud should be with Microsoft. As a personal health adviser, I place a big question mark on that. I specifically call it "Ehf ID." If buying ID is a government authority, it is good and blessed. When the talk on electronic identification occurred, it was not in the picture that it should be a private firm that would hold it. But it was so fun that those men who had spoken the most about setting up this identification network under the law formed the identity. And then, for the government, it was the best time that ID would handle this electronic identification. As the situation is now, you can technically choose between using e - mail or not. As a person who had long enough electronic IDs, I noticed a number of difficult barriers within many systems. So I wondered where the selection would lie: Will everyone have to have their identification electronically on the phone or will it be possible to make up the old way anyway? So I wondered about the need and importance of being able to have an electronic ID. And then I don't completely figure out how this has to do with the dangerous, organized crime of a technology age. I would think this would make it more likely that you could easily steal your identity. This is more like the kind of security I've got. And we all have different perspectives on what's considered safe. I would really like to hear how the Icelandic state feels that they are equipped to secure the security of electronics.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u84	President. Thank you. Senator. I'm sorry if I'm not clear enough. I have to admit, I didn't follow all that stuff completely. A senator came in and is more likely than to blame me. I reiterate what I said earlier, that the proposal goes out to appoint a team. The task force is to provide proposals for the publication of the secure official and annual budget for the use of the certificate. The motion has nothing else to do with it. All the very good questions. A senator, along with countless others without doubt, is likely to be what the work force should sit over and answer. The report highlights a number of examples and developments in some direction without any particular reasoning for the above. To me, there are two electronic IDs, one that is able to open the phone and show your driver's license, or what it is, and the key to which we have repeatedly had to rely. I know a lot of people who don't have electronic IDs but only the Ice Key, and it only works in a very limited way. So I ask. A senator who, if I understand her correctly, has doubts about herself and having an ID on her phone: Is it not true that we have a choice, that those who want their IDs on the phone do? And doesn't it just think it's very sensible that it's the government that's about to publish identity keys instead of private companies?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u85	President. Thanks for the answer. When it comes to appointing groups, I prefer to think that this is usually the beginning of a much longer process. It is difficult to deal with the process when it is far along, as we saw with the identity of the day. To answer that question, I think it is very wise for people to have a choice, but there are different ways to choose. When I say so, I mean that a choice may be forced or undecided, as I was trying to point it out. An example of what has happened with electronic identification is that when I contacted the bank at the time and mentioned that I didn't have an electronic ID, my attitude was more like trouble, to put it right. As a result, I was forced to get this electronic identity, although I did not want to buy any of the services of ID ehf at all. But I was forced to do so eventually. Maybe there's a choice I'd like to reiterate a little bit if I needed to be there. There is a bit of this with what the need is to appoint this group and on what basis he will work. This is an idea that is very easy to sell to the citizens, but as I pointed out, there is a difference between safety and security. Safety is all kinds of things, and people can misunderstand what is safe and what is not. What has happened with this electronic authentication key is that we have no choice whether we use it technically. [[The president calls.]] He may not be as confident as anyone would have me to believe.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u86	President. I don't know, but the suspect may suspect that we may be what we are. A senator just did not agree on ultimate goals. I'd be, for example. So happy if the working group led to something bigger and more that I could hear. A senator is most frightened. I hope the task force will lead to a reliable public ID being published. It is my goal as well as that of others who make this resolution, and the task force is a step forward in that direction. I've done this before. I parked, for example. proposals for a group of workers who are working to start a immigrant counseling agency. As a result, they became a consulting firm for immigrants. I hope that's how it happens. I understood why. A senator sometimes, in her case earlier, as if electronic IDs were something that would come to pass if the staff became a reality and would do their job. An electronic ID is available today. Hv. A senator described his dealings with a bank. If the work force had already done its work and had established the official electronic identification, why would it have been so? A senator did not get into this problem with the bank. Well, then what would it have been? A senator would have offered a government identification but would not have had to buy it from a private company. Yeah, if you do. A senator certainly doesn't want to have electronic IDs, so it's not a good service for a business I don't know where to offer it. But as I say, I've heard many examples of people who don't have that ID and get into trouble. What I'm saying, President, is that we have an electronic ID today. On the one hand, they're published, and then I'm talking about the key to identity, the key of the government, i.e. I'm afraid an Icelandic key that isn't good enough because it doesn't belong everywhere. On the other hand, identification is issued for a private company. I want the government to publish these papers so that they can have all the citizens of the country that they wish.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u87	President. I'm not going to overdo this, but there's a difference between e-mails and electronic IDs. That's all I want as a final point of this speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u88	President. I came back here because I forgot to mention in my letter that this proposal is now proposed, as I came in, for the sixth time, and it has been for some of the past years and is now submitted by them. Councilmen who serve in the National Council of Iceland, as well as other members of Congress who do not sit there. Besides me, transporters are cool. The servants of Þóra, Thorrah, the Árnadóttir of Aarna, Kolbrún Kolbrön, the Árnadóttir of Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Guns, the Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, and Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir, the daughter of Avvar. President. The reason this is in Iceland's custody, or whatever. The members of Parliament are that there have been ideas and work within the Northern and Northern Council to publish some form of common electronic identification that helps citizens or people who go there and take advantage of them from one country to another. This report specifically involves this work. I'm sorry that I didn't mention this in my first talk, but it's a clear subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u89	Madam President. I hereby recommend a synonym to honor the memory of the Icelanders who died during World War II. This is the third time this suggestion is proposed, that this time only slightly altered but materially the same. In addition to this, 19 other members of Congress, the government will be assigned to establish a permanent program to honor the memory of the Icelanders who perished during World War II and the preparation of a memorial program in 2024. The government consults experts with the plans that will be submitted to the General Assembly in the form of a synonym no later than in April 2021. It is obvious, of course, that the committee involved in this proposal needs to consider this date that focused on the fact that my hopes were in order to recommend the proposal in the fall, but now we are in a new year. Despite Iceland's lack of warfare, Iceland's population did not suffer the loss of the war that came with World War II. Sailors were essential to the land, having to carry the land's products out and supply the land with all kinds of necessities during the war years. Thus, the value and importance of marine exports grew immensely. At the same time, British and later U.S. military forces led to some aspects of their service and were important in the fight for Europe and the world's freedom. The importance of the Icelandic fleet, however, was not the least of the exports of the land. Thus, sailing in the seas around Iceland was frequent and can be traced to the loss of Iceland's population during the war years to a conflict and attack the Icelandic Armada, although some Icelandic ships have perished far from the coast of Iceland. With all Icelanders and allies, we owe a debt to those who staked their lives on these cruises perfectly aware of the risk. As suggested in the council arrangement, the sacrifices of those who had been greatly lost and are long ago time to bring honor to their memory. Transporters feel that it is proper to agree to honor the permanent memory of those who died at the age of 75 years - now 76 years, of course, that I had hoped to make a recommendation long ago - since the game ended and that a special memorial ceremony will be held in 2024 when it is at least 85 years since World War II began. There is evidence of the number of Icelanders who died during the war, although the total number depends on what is considered to be a fall from war. In some cases, there is a lack of information on why ships were killed. However, there is a theory of experts who have studied this history and the record. These include Þór Whitehead, who published Iceland's military project in 2002. Gunnar M. Magnúss compiled the Fortress of the North III, which was reassigned by changes and extensions in 1984 by Helgi Hauksson. It outlines all the Icelanders who died of war. From these sources, it can be concluded that at least 153 Icelanders died as a result of assault on ships they were on or a collision with torpedoes. It is an Icelandic ship and a foreign ship that had Icelandic sailors aboard. These are 0.13% of the population of people in this country compared to the population at the end of 1940, then 121,474 were Icelanders. In addition, 58 were killed on two ships, Swamp and Max Pemberton, which are likely to have been connected to torpedo conflicts. Those killed in Iceland during the war years are also expected to survive the hands of U.S. soldiers. Thus, the total number of Icelanders killed by war was 211 or 0.17% of the population by the end of 1940. This is little less relative casualties than in Denmark. It can be noted that in the United States, the number of deaths relative to the same criteria was 0.2%. In this series of articles, a list of all who died in World War II was featured after years. I also think it's right to assume that we are not only honoring the memory of these men, these heroes we have, but also showing respect for their family and their descendants. Already there are several monuments of those who have died of an outstanding order, such as at the Cape Museum for those who took in Fallos and Gadofos. In some cases, foreign burial sites are marked specifically by the deaths of Iceland. There is also a port in the Reykjavík map of all the ships that have been lost by Icelanders, including those in the United States. during the war. There are no permanent monuments to all the Icelanders listed here in this synonym. So it is long time for them to have a lasting place in the history of the nation. In what way this will be done best, it will be further implemented by the government in consultation with the experts who work, including those who work. in the field of history and museums. Madam President. After this discussion, I suggest that the synopsis proposal for the General and Education Committee be followed and for a subsequent discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u90	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for taking this case to us. I just want to underscore what happened to the senator, how much emotion is involved. This is the life of people we're here to talk about. Because the senator mentioned the families, the question is, Is there any survivors who are killed by any of the ships? Now I don't know, anybody survived, but it's been a long time. But when it comes to the report to the experts who are supposed to work this out, there are two informative articles, just in judgment, I know. But I think we still have to name more than historians and collectors. In order to get a good grip on the emotions that are natural in this regard, why not get some artists too? Would we not have to approach the project so that our memory will be made permanent in some kind of art that will capture our feelings and memory? I'd like to mention this one group just to give the senator the opportunity to enter it in the previous discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u91	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson this deposit, and I feel I have an ally in him, at least in this matter, maybe not in others. But it's always good to find allies in this kind of language. I hope that the situation will be resolved. That's not much later. That's right, as a matter of course. A senator points out, of course, that there should be other members involved. It is perfectly normal to mention there artists, especially when we look at the possibility of a lasting monument to which we can be proud to maintain history. It matters to us, not just in this, but over our heads, that we appreciate the story and show appreciation for those who went ahead and offered sacrifices and their families a token of appreciation. I think it's the least, Madam President, that we can do in these matters, and we should be proud to finish this case. I'm confident that the case will be brought about quickly, including... taking into account the contraindications that are given. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u92	A respectable president. I'm offering a proposal for a resolution on a search for a reliable coastal transport. The suggestion says: ▪ The General concludes to hide transport and local government minister to have the efficiency of holding two coastal transport ships to transport goods across the country with the aim of reducing road freight transport and thus reducing road erosions. The evaluation will include considered the possibility of using ships for waste and as rescue ships in emergency situations. At the same time, there will be a consideration of the potential attendance of countries and communities on such projects. The Secretary of Staff and Transport will submit a report to the General of the Council no later than April 1, 2021.156. - This date needs a review, a respectable president. This resolution was proposed to the 150th legislature and is now submitted unchanged. The aim of the proposal is to examine coastal transport as a practical and environmental option in freight transport so that heavy road transport can be transported. With increasing traffic, road erosion has increased significantly, with the highest weight of heavy transport being reached. The roads of the country are often torn apart by heavy automobiles. Heavy travel breaks down the road layer, resulting in a reduced weight tolerance and increased need for maintenance. The effect of weight is thought to have a fourth effect on the breakdown of roads. This means that the weight of a 10 ton is 10 thousand times greater for the degradation rate than for the 1 ton tox. Coastal cruises would be more modern and environmental than land transport, where two well - equipped ships that sail around the country, one clockwise and the other anti-clockwise, in a weekly and two-week program, will release less carbon dioxide than is released by land transfer. The hardware could have been partly or completely powered by eco-friendly fuels, e.g. Nature gas, like estimate. The ships that would be used would have to meet the highest safety requirements and be prepared for two strong Azimuth-lots along with two massive sidebars, with a load of wind on the side of up to 25 m/sec. and have full control in such situations, including to get into small ports under difficult conditions. With such a power of power, the power of the ships would be about 80 tons. One of the biggest and most challenging problems in Iceland in the immediate future is transport, disposal, and waste disposal. The total amount of waste is over a million tons per year, but considering the development of recent years, waste transport for recycling, exporting, or incineration can be expected to increase. Although the target for recycling and recycling of waste targets is met, it can be expected that there will always be a need to dispose of all waste in other ways, such as incineration or incineration. In Iceland, all waste disposal is expected to be stopped within a few years. Therefore, there are only two options, moving waste waste waste waste waste disposal or building an appropriate sized waste plant for waste disposal. Only one incineration on the land meets the minimum requirements for such activities. Its efficiency is about 12,300 tons a year, but it is estimated that this is about to be a total of 80,000,100,000 tons of waste for the incineration of the remaining domestic waste, which will have to be replaced and recycled. Coastal cruises may play a key role in carrying waste from ports around the country for disposal. With a resurgence of a beach trip, most of the land could be moved, i.e. anything more than fresh products, eco-efficiency, and a less expensive route to the sea. What type of industrial production, habitats, and raw materials could be removed from the roads of the country, moving with seafaring, thus reducing carbon tracks and fuel waste. There is a good chance that sea transport would be far less expensive than land transport. Thus, the resurgence of coastal transport could have a direct impact on the survival of households and companies across the country. In this regard, special waterfronts need to be checked on coastal ships, but now they are far beyond the cost of land transport. Coastal cruises, therefore, could be a practical option for both environmental and financial reasons. There are more options on the business of two coastal ships than they could have been. use as additional security for seafarers and populations in rural areas. The benefits of preparing a beach cruise ship with a powerful fire extinguisher on a deck, ready for tow through a canal at the bottom of a ship, a position for large numbers of people on board because of natural disasters, and a helicopter and a fuel tank for helicopters. It would be a big security issue for seafarers and local residents to ports that now have little or no connection with one another if a ship was available on the ever - to - be cruises throughout the country all day long, especially when adverse weather rages rages and cannot be dealt with by flying or by car. Transporters have not considered the design of coastal ships, but they believe that government and private cooperation would be the most practical option. The project would then be cooperated with states and rural society and enterprises and/or individuals with knowledge of coastal transport and would be offered as a co-work project, in English ◯publitic private affiliate. Therefore, to make a special examination of such projects, transporters are to be arranged for the arrival of their local and rural communities. Transporters suggest that coastal transport will already be considered as a future solution in the majority of the country's transports by reducing carbon emissions and the results of this option to be submitted no later than April 1, 2021 - and, as previously said, the date, a respected president, has to be revised. The movers on this motion are the one that says, Ásmundur Friðriksson, executive director, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, Ólafur Ísleifsson, Jónsson, Guðjón S. Brjánsson and Ari Trausti Guðmundsson. A respectable president. We suggest that the case be referred to. Environmental and transport committees and other sources
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u93	President. We've got an old acquaintance who's involved in a change in the U.S. election law, and he's going to cut the election age of the county election election from 18 years to 16. The case has been presented several times earlier, at a 146th legion and reimbursed at the 147th Courtal Assembly, and at 148 C.E., it was submitted by representatives of all classes. Then came the view that there was too short a time to prepare the change for the local election that was the same year as the 3rd. It was not finished, but it reached that far. President. The bill, in fact, is extremely simple, only four articles. In 1st. is mentioned as being replaced by the words: 16 - year - old. 2.g. Following the word "Karrill " in a rural government, any man having a vote in the local community is following. 2 gts and 1st Section 3. The law comes: it's a law. Section 3. Instead of the words, all of us choose the people of the b- team 19. The law comes, the voters. In Comb 4. is then a law of value. It's my opinion - and I think that many who participated in discussions at the 148th legislature or observed it when committees and members of the 3rd C.E. came into session. ... but was, as I entered before, not finished, can agree with it -- that the main argument against the case, those who could not agree that it would be agreed, at least the most loud and the longest time here on the platform, was that it was too tight a time to make this change right before the district election. The committee had completed its discussion and had handled the professional matters involved. That's why, President, is my opinion that most of my work is behind me. We may have handled matters well in the past, both immediately. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, the first traveling overseer, led the discussion here at the Assembly Hall and at the same time. A board of directors and patrols where I was the manager of the case, and I've prepared us to win the case quickly and safely. The bill is about changing the law on elections to the government, that is a relatively simple change of law. The numerous reporters who came to the case in their day have their comments and, of course, are able to update them but talk about them. The committee should be fresh in mind, as it were, in the Assembly Hall. I told you it was an old friend of ours here. I only reviewed when it had been moved before. However, before they first moved to a 146th legion of legislatures, a number of related matters had been submitted. I'm to mention, Mr. President, the two cases of the Council of the Left move, the one on the one hand, Hilyn's son's body and the Kolbrún Hallsson Halldórsdóttir at the 133th Court and the bill of the Árni Þór Sigur's Sigurðsson in 141. The issue has been followed for quite a while by the left movement, but not simply by the 144th legislative Council. Councilmen of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, Árni Páll Árnason, Kristján L. Möller, and Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir presented a similar case that was then reborn by the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir, and the Árni of the year Páll the Árnason of years at the Council of 145. So there's a lot of work to do, Mr. President, behind this matter. The articles are inflamed at each donation. A committee program with a new proposal from the 148th legislature suggests that the matter be accepted. There's nothing wrong with merely giving us a few things to do. There are many reasons why this step should be taken. It is tempting to take a deep look at the evidence presented in the report. On the other hand, I am going to resist that temptation, refer to the report, and let me say that in my mind it is simply about whether we have the will to make this change or if any of us just don't want to move on to the election age and lower it to 16 years. This will become evident, and there is no longer a covert behind the urgency of our times. I hope that all these efforts of the members of Congress, both present and former members of the council, which have come to this issue all these years, as well as the work being done during the course of the year. The management and monitoring committee, which can be read in the Commission opinion referred to, will not be in vain nor will the great work done by the clients, both in their reviews and in the setting of the committee and community discussions. I hope we'll use this discussion to reduce the election age of 16 years.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u94	A respectable president. I'm here to make a pact proposal. The first carrier is Þórunn Egilsdóttir, along with the one standing here and what we have here. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir. The suggestion is as follows: The Council concluded to hide the Environment and Resource Minister to provide proposals for temporary and conditional fishing on the following species of birds outside their standard fishing season: a. From March 15 to June 15, the olive tree, the gray floor, and the Holy One, on the fields of grain, and from March 15 to the 15th, b. Earth's grain roofs, dated May 1 to October 1. It will be granted to those areas where there is thought to be a need for action as a result of the spread of the birds on the ears and ears of grain. The secretary also implements a programme to ensure the protection of the strains. Minister of Article Allegorical Council no later than April 1, 2021 - The point is that it is quite quick, since that date is only a month. Elish, gray, pagan, and dead people do much harm to the tubs and grain fields. There is a need to find ways for farmers to stop the mud of an elf and a goose. The Environment and Resource Ministry, the EEA, the Natural Institute and Iceland's Farms Association have compiled information on futures caused by goose and aluminium in farms. This work can be based on assessments of the need for effort. However, protection of the strains needs to be ensured and the effectiveness of the procedure evaluated. The ewes and the goose are like birds, and they are herbbs. Elds and geese are more likely to pick up farms with better shapes than poorer ones. They can easily identify vegetation's food levels and choose a good match accordingly. Aluminium must eat about 300 g per day of powder. Despite its well - being, there may have been some cases of illegality, since it is thought to damage the tub and grow grain. Young birds are often gathered in large groups in newly developed fields and on fields of grain. There is a need to give a local release from the law in order to respond to the damages. From 1913 onward, the elf has been appeased in Iceland, but its population has grown dramatically. About 1960, however, the strain was estimated to be some 34,000 birds. During the summer season, gray goose picks up plenty of green vegetation and grain in the autumn. They must eat about 150 g per day of powder. The powder size of a gray goose is about 100,000 birds. The country's habitat is in the highlands, but when they arrive in the country, the gullies often go a long way in the open country before they go to paganity. Guaagas will eat about 130 g per day of powder. Plants are more sensitive in Iceland's highlands, and the bird is likely to walk close to it in sensitive areas. The powder is enormously strong and is growing, the Icelandic-green species has grown over the last few decades. In 1952, he was 23,000 birds, but he is now at a historical peak, some 500,000 birds. The U.S. Hell population has grown to a great degree like the rest of Europe's Helling stocks. It was the largest of 81,000 birds in 2013 and had dropped to 72,000 birds in 2018, including the year 2018. Because of organized reduction measures by Scottish government. Farmers have tried to protect themselves from the propaganda of birds by various means, both visual and audio. However, these are the dosages in which the bird quickly gets used to the food supply and quickly returns to the fields and gardens. The same methods are used in other countries, and the birds have also become accustomed to food. The defenses are merely temporarily driving birds out of certain areas, but they often turn to the next farmer. Such a move to the problem is not a reasonable solution to the length of time, so it is necessary to respond with increased initiative. There is an appeal of aluminum and goose that causes economic damage to farmers and that problem is not limited to Iceland. In 2016 a report on damages caused by aluminium and goose in 2014 and 2015 was published by the European Commission. During this period, farmers were able to report their damage electronically through the town square. The results of this report showed that the damage caused by the spoils of birds was the most important thing. In most cases, there were more than one species of birds that harmed certain farms. It was noted that far more damage announcements were received in 2014 than the following year. According to the report, many farmers have failed to report damage, since in recent years little has been achieved to get damaged or improved, or to obtain appropriate measures to protect waste. Since 2013 Iceland has been a member of the Convention on the Protection of Birds and Wetland Birds in Africa and Evrasia. The contract requires measures to protect wetland birds at their places of approach and covers a number of birds that lay or have a place to live in Iceland. On the basis of the contract, the state may decide to work on the market size of birds that damage crops. AEWA has undergone a series of strategies to influence the size of European goose strains, including For the heathen, and for the gray, and for the dead. In 2012, for example, the year 2012 had been the case. a plan to reduce the size of the Svalbard strain of pagan eggs in Denmark and Norway in cooperation with the Netherlands and Belgium to approximately 60,000 birds. The goal was two years later. The aim of the program for the Svalbard strain is to maintain the population size in 60,000 birds in order to minimise damage caused by the crops and vegetation infudrum without decomposition. The idea of a tragic accident remains in the hands of 43 st. a bill for the protection, welfare, and fishing of wild birds and wild mammals, which has been published in government consultations. In the above article of the bill, the EEA is expected to provide a temporary and conditional exception for the capture of certain species of wild birds, as it is shown in the actual and defined risk of their damage in certain cases, in certain locations or areas, as the exception is in accordance with the agreed management and protection programme of the relevant species. Transporters believe that it is necessary to set the size of aluminium and goose targets. It is then important that a clear warrant and plan for fishing on an aluminium and goose be created in order to reduce the damage to farmers, whether it involves changes in the law or the events of the regulations involved. In addition to this procedure, there will be a programme to ensure protection of the strains. This is the third time that this council resolution proposal is made here, hoping that the measures taken by these proposals will be taken. I suggest that this council proposal be made to the environment and transport committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u95	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize a college law and a government law. The ideaology behind the bill goes on to enable more people to pursue university studies without needing some kind of extradite, i.e. making it possible for the university students to decide for themselves what qualifications are laid for the study they offer. Today, it is stated that a student's test is needed to attend college unless it is by some kind of law. The experience is that they are usually at the back of a series that needs such an exception and thus have limited opportunities to pursue university education. This bill is suggested to include a more comprehensive assessment of candidates and assessment of persons who have completed a student's test, a child's test or other profession, occupational or art. This case has been recommended several times, and even if very small, it has received some publicity on a committee. The primary reason for thinking is to open the doors of the university for students who have completed a variety of studies, including the fact that we are always increasing the diversity of our daily learning list because of the wide variety of individuals and the choice of how to attend a variety of studies. It's also a matter of further doing industrial and engineering and art studies and increasing the diversity of college students. The idea that everyone has to go to college doesn't work out, but in recent years it has become a matter of putting more and more into study for the rest of their lives. It is no longer that people educate themselves for as much as they did for the rest of their life. Rather, they prefer, in increasing numbers, to change their field of service once and even more often. Thus, it may be only natural that those who have worked in an article since postindustry may later be able to improve their university education and do secular work, or they may later be able to go to some form of industrial education. Happily, such development and a very large increase in applications in industry and engineering have been considered to be a long - term violation of the Icelandic school system of how small an application has been in industrial and technical sectors. In this context, I'd like to say that the bill was first moved by the current highest level. At that time, a minister of justice. A senator, Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir and may be told that I inherited the matter from her when she began serving as a minister. At times, though it is not so common to do so, it is a matter of Congress to be established in this hall. However, it seems that this or that idea may have received the support of both wings, since it has not been so long since. The Minister of Education and Culture spoke for a bill, in fact, only now February 18th, it was submitted on February 16, and is therefore a administrative bill with comparable meaning. It's about the change of these same songs and they're called "explanatory conditions." This will indicate that the subject passed the final test from high school on the third stage. So it's just a detailed frame in, but this bill. I think that's a good thing to do. The General and Education Committee will discuss both these issues at the same time and discuss them. I haven't been able to study reviews on the CDC in my consultation, but I believe that this has been agreed with at least College. I know that the University of Iceland had submitted a review of this subject at the time, and I was concerned about it when students from other countries were assessed for our cooperation with the North countries and from other countries. In fact, it was addressed in the article on the official university, looking to what professed colleges in a comparable foreign field were doing. I'll think about it. A top-of-the-art Board of Education is good enough to review both these issues and find out what the best way is. Of course, the big thing is to open the university and accept the education of industry and the mine with regard to the possibility of pursuing further education later. No one needs to tell me that in order to form a carpenter or an electrician who has run a business, even has a master's degree in his own account, and as a result, he has done a considerable study to qualify for a master's rights, is less likely to go to technical studies or business studies than someone who just graduated from high school from some other level. So I think it's only natural, then, that colleges themselves have the opportunity to set their own standards for what they are asking and with the bill would, of course, encourage the university to look to professional experience and academic research in particular. In this context, I would like to say that I enjoyed my university education in the old High School of Technology, which was long - term, and then came to the University of Technology, and finally I joined the University of Reykjavík. I studied business science, but it also offered a variety of technical studies. I remember choosing this school especially because the setting was very different, and the atmosphere at school was quite different, considering that there were quite a few people coming back to school after working in the job market and testing a number of things. It was what impressed me with my study, the ability to study with people with a variety of backgrounds. I don't think it's just an opportunity for those who have studied industry, engineering, art, to enter college, but it's also an enormous opportunity for university students to get people with a wide variety of backgrounds into school. As a result, I think it is important to the entire party. I'm not gonna have this much further. Here's a great piece of paper with the bill, but I'm not going to read it. I hope so fervently that at this council we will be able to finish this case whether it is this bill or the bill of directorship or some combination of these both, at least by law, that we open to the law that the university can have its entrance conditions, we are not protruding it down into the law of law that a student's test would be required to pursue a university study.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-25-60.u96	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a resolution to the interpretation of the order of an employee's group on the meaning of food carbon trajectory. Artists in this case have a problem. Councilmen Trausti Sigri Guðmundsson, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, Hanna Katrín Friðrk's Friðriksson, Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir K. Þorgerður's Gunnarsdóttir. The proposal involves hiding the minister of the marine eco- and agricultural sectors from appointing groups that object to suggestions on how to specify the carbon track of food. The task force has its representatives, its trades and services, its consumer organisations, and its reforms. The task force then submitted a report with proposals for Ministers no later than September 1, 2021. The motion of this case is that at 149 C.E., I directed a petition to the minister to see if the Ministry or Minister had plans for further work in this field or if such work had begun. In response to a minister, it was observed that a working group, including a group, was active. reviewing this, followed by a report from the work group. His findings, published in a detailed report on September 9, of that year, suggested that it is important to keep encouraging the meaning and commitment of government officials to mark products in this way. It also shows that there is still a need to encourage the meaning, to others, and to encourage positive ones. This report, as it has previously been stated in my case, points to the context between government's plans for noncarbonization and government climate goals and enable consumers to identify which carbon tracks they take, if you can put it this way, when they buy or consume products or services. According to the above report, although not yet perfect, there are already some methods to measure the level of carbon dioxide. For one thing, this is presented in a synoptic form, to be understood by tourists that preparatory work needs to be performed before a bill or some rules can be submitted. However, I think it is very important that the government take the first steps in this and give the tone which way we are going to go, perhaps the main reason why the case has been delivered. I also believe that markings such as these may be very important for production in the country, and that for the sake of the production, they may be important in competition with foreign products, which will eventually come to the country with some additional carbon line, even if only because of transport. This enables consumers to select the carbon - rich products, if that is a word, and gradually help them to change eating habits. Within the country, a number of jobs have already been won, and the community has to develop such a work in the sea and set goals for its energy of carbon equal food, which is of utmost importance. Such a change could actually support such a journey and encourage it and make it more positive in all respects. For us as a tourist country, this too can be of great importance because we want to show the expectation that we are a community that really take these matters seriously and that it would be fun if we were to become one of the first countries in the world to install some kind of color code on food, considering how big or small carbon tracks they have. As I mentioned earlier, some of the priming work is going to be done, but I believe it is important that we, as legislades, send the Commission the message that we want this job to continue and that it is done in this way. As I mentioned at the outset, we have an agreed proposal, such as this, in fact, one of the areas of support that governments can have with their climate goals as well as another message to the community at all about this as a matter of great defense to us and that we are going to continue on the way of trying to do better in these matters. After this discussion, Mr. President, I assume that the matter will be taken into consideration. Business committee.
