ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u1	Mr. President. The new forecast of the Bank of Economics is striking. The increase in real estate prices by 10.5% between the annual averages is the largest increase since 2007. At the same time, it is predicted that by the end of the forecasting period, there will be a peak of 2.75%. We know the reason for increasing real estate prices; insufficient development, growth reduction, and increased demand for new buyers. In view of the fact that we know of the arrival of a new large generation in a real estate market for decades, the lack of money is always as strange. Now the danger is that buyers are forced to cock their bow all too high to get into the market. An increase in the amount of property prices plus an increase means 40 million. K. Real estate needs to be placed in $ 800,000. In addition to the present and its loans, there will be 1.2 million in the season. K. higher. The increase in cost of newcomers is 2 billion. K. over two years. I've mentioned before in a talk that Iceland's real estate markets in our financial system carry all the signs of venture capital investments, and I think the news of the day underlines it. We must create a better environment for the future. We must provide sufficient structure for the variety of housing that meets the needs of society. We have to invite people to real estate markets and tenures so that they can make decisions that will suit their circumstances and not have to worry about government growth swings and decisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u2	Mr. President. In Iceland, children's families are far from being given the same amount of support as in the Norwegian countries. In my conversations with young women with average wages, they consistently say that they don't get child support, that child support isn't for their children. Still, no matter how many overtime hours are spent, they wonder at every cent and never have any leftovers. As the parents work more hard to provide their children with comfortable housing, food, clothing, and leisure, their children will have little time with their parents and the stress of driving and applying from work toll. In this country, only the families of minor children gain incomes under minimum pay insurance, and on average wages there are no compensations, and they have dropped to a significant extent because of the cruel loss of income, resulting from current government policies. If Iceland is to be a child-friendly society, as we officers are going after the next election, we must support more children's families. In Norway, Sweden and Finland, child reforms are not linked, but in Denmark the decline begins with high income losses. The linking is there through the income tax system. The idea is that by child reforms, it is ideal for those who share children with those who do not share children. But the highest individuals pay higher income taxes there. Some say that it takes too many billion to do as well as the Norwegian states, but we offer too many billion to reduce taxes on capital owners, as the government has done during this season, not to mention a reduction in hunting costs. Our priorities are different.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u3	V.E.G. President. The Washington Post reported yesterday that the president of the United States had recently approved a arms sale to Israel that amounted to $33 billion. On May 5, last week, this was reported by the U.S. Congress, about a week before the conflict broke out between the Israelites and the Hamas forces in Palestine, 93 billion were filled with the force of war. Let us now imagine that one of the most powerful kingdoms on earth would have spent this amount of money to inspire hope, promote peace, and reconcile different viewpoints. Controversy at the waters of the Mediterranean has a long and bloody history. It is risky for the discussion to paint a simple picture of such a complex matter. The conflict between Israel and Palestine is a national issue that centers on land. The subject is how Israel and Palestine can live in harmony with one another so that peace, equality, and justice exist among its inhabitants. Since the end of World War II, conditions have been at a critical point. Now, innocent civilians, women and children, are coming down. We condemned such things but must look for ways to lower the temperature, not just wonder and condemn when conflict breaks out. Undiscovered, civil strife and oppression will continue in a regular way, Israel's occupation will continue, and the hope of the Palestinians will be diminished. Hope is found in peace. The United Nations Security Council is meeting today because of the situation. The president of the United States has encouraged a cease - fire, yet three times the U.S. council official has used a no - force to halt the council's united decree of which violence is condemned and urged for a cease - fire. No matter how small we are, we must respond and encourage others to do the same. These disputes are not just about Israel and Palestine. Let's take the criticism to where it belongs.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u4	Mr. President. We look forward to brighter days here on earth. As the sun rises, immunizations go on, and hopefully the nation's commercial industry begins. But it is not bright everywhere, far from it. To this day, international society sees inexorably. In the last days, the warfare, destruction, and loss of life in Palestine will not go unnoticed. The Hammers have killed civilians in Israel, while Israel's counterwar attacks have killed 20 times as many children, including many. It is clear that Israel has a superior position against Palestine, both military and economic advantages, including those of the first century C.E. in view of national support. I'm not going to pretend to have solutions for the decades of Israel's conflict and conflict, but I think of the way the Israelites are on, and all of us must have it. Their actions on Gaza, their abuse of power, their repeated conquests, and the expulsion of Palestinians from their homes, and today the military activities that come primarily on the civilian population, men, women, and children, are something we should consider. It's simply not possible to sit by and do nothing. Human rights violations and violations of international release are also illegal in this part of the world, and they must be stopped by all means. The life and safety of millions, men, women, and children, depend on the permanent discovery of a truce between Israel and Palestine. Me and the Icelanders have a strong international voice. We have done so more than once in this small nation. We need to use it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u5	A respectable president. I want to start my speech by agreeing with the last two speeches. Senators. But I'm going to talk about the workforce. The work market is changing, and the fourth industrial revolution has begun. Covid has given the new revolution wings, and in just six months many things have changed that otherwise would have taken several years. Hard work hours and jobs without location have been accepted. Our four-walled ideas have changed. It is important that we continue to prepare and move forward in this direction. We do not know where the future will lead us in these matters. The traditional way to educate themselves, to have a safe work at 25 years of age, and to be given the 67 - year - old gold watch for well - employed jobs is no longer the picture we can present to our children. They know better. They've got it. The Gigg economy has begun its invasion. We need to be ready to educate ourselves and reevaluate all our careers, thus strengthening our skills in a changing world. In recent months, working together in many parts of the country has arisen. They offer different parts of the employees that are suitable for each individual. In cooperation, you will find that you can build knowledge and build up the social needs of people who are working on their assignments as well as that they contribute to a positive community development. Such a job can cover a wide range of projects around the world. By increasing communication and high - speed communication throughout the country, there is an opportunity to operate in a number of ways other than within certain walls. A respectable president. At the end, I'd like to call attention to the course of web studies that governments are working in cooperation with the University of Reykjavík have opened up artificial intelligence. The course is open to all the public called 'Englisht' and can be found in Iceland. The purpose of the course is to make knowledge of artificial intelligence available so that people can feel the power and opportunity in new technologies as well as to strengthen the working opportunities and skills of the Icelanders, as the introduction shows.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u6	Mr. President. I agree with the main points in the matter of the senators before me in Palestine, as well as in the conclusion of a council of the greens left over there. But for the next two days, Mr. President, lead in the Arctic Council. It ends the success of two years of Iceland's management in spite of the problems caused by Covid and Russia. As an indication of the importance of northern affairs, there is here all the Ministers of the eight states who are participating in the Ministerial Conference in Harpa. In view of these disturbing developments in northern regions, it is clear that this calls for more than the same responsibility of the eight states but of all the other countries of the world. As a result, we need to develop and organize the cooperation of all the nations to control greenhouse gas emissions beyond the Paris complex and not forget the bounds of carbon in the process. At the same time as this is happening, Iceland's new Arctic policy is on its way. It is a parapolitic document, quite remarkable, indicating the collective and cooperative cooperation of the eight groups here at the General Assembly. Today's committee opinion is on the program, and there are 19 factors in which climate and equality are referred to as peaceful cooperation and low - tensions. I'm not going to do anything about it, but it's basically a very progressive policy. I'm just gonna say a few words about the rest, Mr. President. Foreign Minister needs, in agreement with what. A Foreign Affairs Committee, providing discussions on this policy with experts in mind that there is a plan for action on the basis of the north-generation policy at the next council or in the north. This reminds us that we need to do so in order to develop emphasis and expand our cooperation and to get more done.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u7	Mr. President. In the United States, Antony Blinken, the new U.S. secretary of foreign affairs is now in the country. He had a meeting with his Icelandic colleague this morning. There, he even gave. Based on a clear message that the United States government has adopted a solution to two states in Palestine, which is a very clear and interesting message. But I must admit, Mr. President, that I am very curious to hear of this meeting of the two Ministers. I hope Iceland's secretary of state has had plenty of time to explain to his American colleague the policy of Independence in security and defense because it is not clear at all. After the four years these groups have taken care of the foreign affairs, it is not clear exactly what the Independence Party's policy is in security and defense. One woman in the north once, with president's permission, said that she wanted to be a dead fly on the wall when something happened. I agree, I would have liked to be a dead fly on the wall this morning when Iceland's foreign minister explained to the American minister why the Icelandic government has not received donations from the NATO library to make needed improvements to the Cheflavour Airport, i.e. both on the docks and on the field itself. I would have given a lot of money, and I will ask the secretary of state when he shows up for the council what explanation and possible explanation. His excuses were found by his American colleague on the fact that the Icelanders have denied the amount of money that is in the range of 1,930 billion, depending on the stage taken, to represent the necessary structure at Keflavour Airport and around which the Independence Party has ignored in the last four years.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u8	Mr. President. Today is the International Gathering Day. People around the world are celebrating this day, and it is their goal to promote cooperation with people around the world. There are three museums in Iceland, as well as a number of museums all over the country and cultural groups. I was there for the opening of a new series of openings in the Gön Museum on Aquilin last week. The exhibit has been in preparation for four years, and it is very successful in providing a sound - language guide for the museum. The theme of the new showing is life to sea and land for work and games. On the show, you can also visit the building building and see a fire directed at work, etc. This presentation is really worth visiting and examining with the family. We have amazing cultural culture in museums all over the country. If I mention a few interesting and inexpensive museums in my district, the Northwestern district, can be named The Water Museum in Stykishol, Iceland's National Institute of Farms, the Monsters' graffiti of the Bilndal Valley, the Globe Show of the Smokes, the Oymesar Museum in Bolunga, the Merrka site of Iceland in Susau, the Based of Vestjísfjörður, the World's Magic Show, the Meldyda memories of the Carding Valley, the Selvestlandstur, the Sóshovengógógóðá, the National Farms National Institutes National Park, the National Institutestography of the National Park, the National Park, the National Museum of the Arturgist, the World and Hofasts. There are multitudes of museums, far from the list. National museums are incredibly rich in culture and diversity, and I think that summers would be well spent by people visiting these museums on their trip to Iceland. It's also a good idea to take advantage of the move to visit the great museums we have, Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u9	A respectable president. There was good news last night when it was the highest. Department of Social Affairs signed a Regulation that largely eliminates the State's involvement in the visual cost for blind, vision impaired, and persons with integrated visual and hearing impairment. This is a change that will be important to many individuals, likely some 4,000 people, especially children's families. For example, a four - year - old who has both eyes of +3 formerly had the strength of some 7,000 dollars. every year, but now it can get up to 20,000 bucks. twice a year. At the top. Minister of Social Affairs had a good conversation about this subject in oral requests at the end of the 2019 months. There I stressed the importance of having my youngest children get glasses without cost and especially those who need them as part of medical treatment. This relatively small number of children is often between the ages of four and eight. Their eyes or vision do not develop properly unless they wear glasses that are often used in the past. So here we are not talking about any luxury problem but simply an essential aid for these children so that they can grow and thrive normally. Of course, the parents of their children who have had to wear glasses know how costly that can be. Of course, such soft - minded, undeniably needy ones can also be damaged. So how glad we are that as a community, we should be helping people who need this help, which is certainly necessary and a part of health care! The next step should be based on the percentage of the budgets of reforms and glass at the pay interview, to form 75%, as shown in my bill on the three-way cases, rather than the amount of money that I have set out in the current system. But, Mr President, this is certainly a step on a good road trip.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u10	A respectable president. Still, in spite of the promise of the last election, disability still needs to be stuck with 65 dollars in favour of a coin. Despite the approval of the Generals, the United Nations Convention on the Issues of Disappointment is not presented as a legal bill. As the cost of inflation is in full control of the government, they have the most severe need to tighten their belts. Food, medicine, and other necessities are raised as well as rents. Paying 220,000 bucks. of rent, and of $300,000. Exploited as a single parent of disability, there is the hope of starving, hopeless status for the individual and for their children. The government surmises because there has never been as much money in the social security system as there has been in the past. Is that true? No. She doesn't include in the calculation of major property reductions in the system at its command. Let's talk about the impairment and chain impairments that are causing the most successful efforts to reach the poor system of social security in Iceland, panic, malnutrition, depression, anxiety, irritability, and agitation. What about the children in these sad conditions and the consequences for them in the present and future? This is what the government offers them to the worst of all in Iceland, to continue to cut jobs, death rates, mother and father's pay, medical bills, pensions, rents, child care, so the worst is not in poverty but left in desperate condition. That sucks. And at the same time, those who have unfavourable access to the nation's resources have never made more money and do not know what to say. It is not part of the government's program to comply with the law. In the 69th. law on social security makes it clear that pay development should be considered, but an index if it is better and more favourable. A group of people says: Correct immediately to the health insurance system and to the extent of poverty. Nobody in Iceland should live at least 350,000 bucks. tax and inadequacy. So let us stop the financial harassment of governments to those starving today.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u11	A respectable president. I'd like to call attention to the increase in disability improvements by 3.6%, and that is a schedule compared to the average pay raise in 2021. But the other is then, and it has even. Maturity aid repeatedly pointed out, and the Microcollar Community, that the job market remains stable in the tenth of the year, despite the constantly saying that the government is urging disability to participate in a labour market. The lowest salary will increase considerably more than disability improvements. The gap between the two groups increases and leads to more sparkling effects. Developmental aid has issued a resolution, and it was completed in October of last year, where the board declared a great disappointment with a financial and financial bill, where there is no evidence that there is any improvement in the interests of the population of the worst - rated Icelandic community, disabled people who need to rely on the disability of life because of disability or a few tools in a very inflexible labour market. People are being encouraged to work, but they are not allowed to be allowed. It is not that this group will have parents throughout their lives who will see to it that they will not lack anything or anything. We are to have such a safety network, a respectable president, that our weakest brothers and sisters are taken care of. In fact, the government covenant included the government.: ▪ Iceland should be the land of opportunity for everyone. I hope so much and fervently that the majority of the local government groups, which are in the process of the last days of the council as to what financial programs should look like, take special note of the group I have been calling here when they play out their last motions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u12	Mr. President. I'm going to discuss the politics thing a little, now that there's a requisition and there's no time for elections. It's kind of cool to watch some candidates, especially those of independence and forwardees. That's as much as I can see that many of them took up our media language on a number of subjects. Now these fine candidates, many fine people, are almost all against a highland park, but they know too well that they are bound by his covenant of government. And if the case doesn't run out this spring, by means of proponents, these groups will agree after election in the fall to extend the lives of this government. However, they know very well that the only group on their feet against a central control in Iceland's highlands is the Central Party. They may even rely on him to act in their behalf. Many of these excellent candidates now find that most of their health systems, which in the last few years, are becoming infringement, although well - aware of their control in safety. Under the cover of these groups, there is a pile of great stones that are felt to prevent anything considered to be a personal enterprise. It is safe to say that there has been a rapid increase in the field of health care where the private enterprise has been systematically evicted. It is more appropriate to send patients to a far more expensive operation in foreign countries than to use national, private services. Those who feel this are sitting on the list. Finally, I'm going to give you the highest road. A health minister with contributions from a bill requiring the legislation of drug use. It is a clean-cut Pirate case that the government of the Independence Party and the Propulsion states that it is completely thoughtless and warring and in total opposition to the single warnings given by doctors and police. That case is a pathetic example of petty popularity politics, but the Middle East will be on its feet in the same way as anyone else.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u13	Mr. President. A prime health minister to authorize and possess doses of addiction and drugs has produced a strong response in the community. The police's review of the bill suggests that there will be no serious penalty policy in this country when it comes to the penalty for possession of consumers, in fact, the opposite. The Association of Education and Prevention, FRI, gives a review of the fact that criminal abuse is preconceived frequently to the end of the practice of drug and drug abuse. This has proved true in the countries where these steps have been taken, as well as in various states of the United States, which have legalized drugs. FRIEND rightly points out in his review that the explanation for the subject needs to be explained as to whether the ultimate purpose of drug law is the one of the steps to take. The organization asks with the permission of the president: "Will the next step be possibly requiring the introduction and sale of addictive and substance because it is impossible to buy them and have but not import, manufacture and sell them? " Regarding a species of chemical products, the head of the North East, with the permission of a president, says: "The bill is too much for the bill, where it takes on all types of drugs, not individual substances. It says that avoids consumption of all substances, e.g. cocaine, amikamine, MDMA, heroin, methadone, crack, etc., will be performed without criminality on one board. The government's warning about this. If the bill becomes a law, then there must be conditions that we all want to avoid, especially if the bill means the first step in bringing drugs into line, as experience in a foreign country has shown. Is this a prospect for our future? Finally, Mr. President. Perhaps the highest light is revealed. A health minister on suitable occasions how its bill will benefit in the battle against organized crime discussed here under the following program.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u14	A respectable president. First of all, I'd like to mention it here, for myself. paritaprevir Instead, Karl Gauti Hjaltason uses the facts freely and decorates with stolen feathers, especially when discussing a highland park on his part. I'd like to mention here the matters of liquor sales that have been discussed in the last few days. ALTVR suddenly wakes up to the fact that alcohol users must be considered illegal. But she's been in this country for years. Everyone is allowed to buy wine from foreign sources online and import to their own uses. The entire network network pages are employed in this activity, with good results as it seems. It is not unusual for ATVR leaders to scratch in their heads over this position, and it would be most reasonable that they called for a clearer protocol rather than a ban on a function that has been present in this country for many years and, indeed, throughout all Europe. Over the past too long, a general has drawn his feet in dealing with the changing environment. A matter of greater freedom in this business has been proposed, but they have never been able to make their way through the council. I think it's time we finish this case here at the Council. While there are natural opinions, as is often the case, there is a need to face the social changes that have occurred and to develop the legal environment in that situation. This is true whether there is additional restrictions on present status or greater freedom and further opening up this business. Of course, the interests of consumers, a respectable president, of course, are very interesting when only a small web site store with online activity are limited purchases, offering more than 20% lower prices than the government's alcohol and tobacco stores. [[The president calls.]] It must make us think about consumer interests when it comes to these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u15	President. Yesterday, Porta's council proposed a synoptic resolution on a comprehensive assessment of the activities of the European Environment Agency. The procedure includes setting up a special committee that should be conducted in all children's ecology and treatment homes and those who have been operated by the State, rural society, partnerships, and private agencies as far back as available data and information are available. In winter, reports from women who had lived in the Ecstasy of physical and spiritual violence were presented by family leaders and the lack of a reaction at the time, including those with whom they lived. From the Children's Protection Agency. The women have repeatedly called for a response from the Ministry of Social Affairs, but this has not yet been the case. This is not the first time, and certainly not the last time that claims of the violence of the management and treatment institutions, and the lack of response from the existing organisations, and should be taken into the situation. So it must be obvious that there has been a systematic problem with children and young people in a very delicate situation. We should also not forget that the balance of power is tremendous. Those who suffer from violence need to take a huge step to present their accounts and the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Government should take the initiative to examine this system-wide problem and give those who have lived in ecology and treated homes the opportunity to present their stories. If we have failed children and young people, we need to recognize them and listen to those who are patient. Therefore, I would probably appreciate that the Ministry of Presidency should take the initiative to set up a committee that can initiate initiative checks in ecosystems and treatment homes and accept indications and complaints about how they were treated when being saved in their homes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u16	Mr. President. There is reason to fear that Iceland is losing its grip on organized crime and, in fact, in considerable detail. State Marshal's analysis reports from 2017 and 2019 show this strikingly. How, though, has this been accomplished? What has been done? V.E.G. A minister wrote an article on the matter recently and discussed the more emphasis on communication, cooperation, consultation, agreement between police services in Iceland, including with a special control group. It is, of course, good and blessed to promote cooperation between police offices in Iceland, that it was lacking. In addition, international cooperation was accompanied by a general talk, including through Europol, which has actually existed for a long time. In this context, the police sought funds for efforts to take on drugs that have ever benefited her, and it has also been referred to in this context as an added emphasis on the education and re-education of the police. But what is this education, this growing emphasis on the re-education of the police? From the media coverage, this appears mainly to be a education on illogical language and sign language. Policemen have complained to me that they are being taught a language talk and put them on all kinds of Orthodox studies rather than preparing them for projects that become more difficult to deal with. There is no reason to believe that the U.S. police are having some special prejudices, yet it is spoken as if they needed special training in that area. Former Justice Minister, my ass. paritaprevir Sigridor Á. Andersen, sought the right course for the situation, but it seems that little has happened since then. What about the resources the police call out for, equipment, knowledge, human resources, the ability to deal with this changed reality? What about fixing the system, e.g. by making it possible for us to expel criminals immediately? And what about dealing with what things are, not how they should be? The analysis department's reports are good because they describe the problem as it really is. It describes the growth of foreign crime and how it is changing the criminal world in Iceland with increasing severity, with the greater supply of narcotics, cocaine, notably, by human trade, by rural groups, and reports on how these groups misuse the security system and the welfare system in Iceland. In addition to selling people's expectations and putting them at risk, the search system is used not only to install criminals but also to bring them into bondage. Is the problem really being handled? It doesn't look like it to me, on the contrary. What does the government suggest in this situation? On the one hand, drug treatment and the changes in the security system that conflict with what other North countries are doing to prevent the world from being abused by criminal gangs, especially. Here, abuse of the system will be made even more attractive. It'll be easier to lure people here, to sell them access to the system. These changes in the government are a gift that will make it easier to sell drugs and the police harder to intervene. Is it not true that the system is abused? Yes, we must, as is done in the analysis department, because this enables us to cope with the real problem. Foreign crime activity is often mainly taking place in foreign cities or in foreign cities and trustees who are actually entitled to a refuge. In Sweden, there was a way of not discussing this, in effect, not doing so. The result? Sweden lost control of the situation, all control. In 2019 Sweden proved to be the largest crime - control country in Europe. That year, 257 bombings were carried out in Sweden. The scope of organized crime has already become considerable in Iceland. The Icelandic government must respond in a decisive way, granting the necessary resources to the police. We cannot afford to make things worse by making changes that will make it easier for organized crime.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u17	A respectable president. I thank the advocate for taking the initiative in this discussion. The situation is that organized crime has been increasing in recent years. The U.S. Marshal's analysis department has repeatedly warned of this development, and I've been working at the Ministry focused on the equipment and action to respond to it. A lawsuit points out that in a report of the 2019 survey, it appears that the Icelandic police can counter this operation is small, but I have reason to believe that this situation has changed following the work I have assigned to the new marshals to launch in the summers. I will describe that work more closely in my case below. According to the State Marshal's Office, tax costs are counted except at least 4% of the gross national product, about 100 billion a year. Harmony of money and tax fraud are therefore huge and closely linked to organized violations. These issues have increased dramatically, and the benefits of a variety of activities are hidden by stealing them through business. It's hard to appreciate, but it's obvious that organized criminal groups are involved in a huge crime; drug sales, tax frauds, insurance frauds, tax frauds, and money frauds. And most important, to deal with these complex realities, the need to increase the communication and coordination of the institutions, one of the most important things a policeman would have to deal with in order to handle these matters properly. And yet, a word or a word. A senator talks down communication and the hard work that has been done in this case, which is one of the key elements to achieve success in these matters. It is safe to believe that in this country the job will be at least 15 cohorts defined as organized fracture groups and the number of fractures. They fall under digital child abuse, sexual abuse, abuse, drug transport, prostitution, money laundering, tax fraud, other frauds, Internet crime, and corruption. With regard to what we've taken to overcome the intelligence of the House, there are a number of operations going on, and I hope they will continue to produce results in the coming years and years. One is the establishment of a council of police, a formal meeting ground, which was started for the first time and began working at the beginning of 2020. The government's office continued to be under regulations for the office of the police officer. In the 23 - year history of the office, such regulations had never been established, but this clearly identifies the office as the leadership of police officials and, above all, to promote the cooperation of the Member States and to make them more efficient, including, more efficient, than any. in this fight. It was needed when I came into the Ministry. Second, there is a special cooperation between the State Marshal and police equipment and to improve the efficiency of these measures and violations. It was emphasized that all the scope created by the reduction of tourists would be replaced by planning violations. It puts everything in place of human resources and resources in research groups and other factors. There were procedures on this, an established control team that has returned to me and I have responded to them, including the following: with a new Regulation which increases their authority in certain areas, but other suggestions are currently being developed in the Ministry. Then we've put money in the fight. Such fragments are often elaborate and complex, so they need equipment to deal with them, and ere. A senator mentioned it and entered the special law enforcement fund, and this equipment has already been useful. A permanent 80 billion was suggested. K. contributes to the chief of police in the capital area during these operations. Since then, the value of holding, and the value of safe money, has been greatly increased. Since then, law enforcement agencies have been promoted to handle money thefts and to promote border control. The police have responded by increasing the number of educated police officers, as well as by experts, to perform analysis and information work. Then there are sources of foreigners to expel foreign offenders. It is clear and broad. However, it is necessary to coordinate the work order between the police and the Foreign Institute on such matters. The increased police law to exchange information with other governments and the police authorities' activities have made such harmony easier. Of course, we realize that in such wrongdoing, other systems, like foreigners, may be abused. The rapid treatment of the U.S. National Institutes of Iceland, where there is no issue earlier than 110 days of age. I can't get over all the issues, tasks, or legal adjustments I've made in this case, but I'll maybe mention them below if I get into it, as well as answering other questions that arise in the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u18	Mr. President. This is an excellent talk here, although I had a certain degree of openness, a talk about Orthodox courses, the abuse of the system, and the like instead of talking about the problems we are dealing with, the organized criminal activities that are carried across borders, regardless of their origins, regardless of the rights or systems, are being practiced around the world. That's the way it is now. What I would like to talk to you about is the most basic tool of all. Government and supreme. The Minister of Justice is the facility, the police, the head of the IRS, and the company of justice, because it was shown by major factors the other day, the Kompá party, that those who have become familiar with these classes and work in this field say that capitals, manpowers, equipment brought by the Iceland government of police and other surveillance agencies are in trouble, unfortunately. Margeir Sveinsson, a central police officer at the police department in the capital area, said that the police lacked both the amount of time and the amount of time to carry out projects involved in organized crime. Theodóra Emilsdóttir, appointed tax investigator, said in the same regard that organized crime is taking place in front of our eyes, but the office has called in vain for provisions to react more quickly to the suspicion of misuse of the tax system. Karl Steinar Valsson, chief police officer at the Marshal's office, said that organized crime is probably one of the greatest threats society faces today. How is that answered? Now we're dealing with the project on how to shorten the week's work, and only she calls 75 new police officers in Iceland. We're still at the point where there are as many police in Iceland today as there are 2007, there are now very bad things. [[The president calls.]] In order to be able to work fast, to investigate, and to defend citizens in this country, the number of police officers needs to be increased. It's not that complicated. It's where the neglect has taken place.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u19	A respectable president. I grew up in a small country in the Grinch, grew up in a rural area where organized crime was only in the movies, and we thought that there was only one small punctuation in the capital area. We're probably a lot of people in this room who grew up with innocent Iceland more than what we know today. Sadly, though, there seems to be an inevitable coven of the prosperity we enjoy and the fact that we are a nation among the nations. The business of organized crime is about money. It's all about drugs. It's about whores and prostitution. It is about money fraud, tax fraud, and insurance fraud, and it attacks companies, agencies, and individuals alike. As we know, because of organized crime, the population will likely be 100 billion each year. Then there are the countless suffering caused by organized crime in people's lives and the vast number of people, much to young women, who are victims of human halls and prostitution. It is an old story, and new ones to handle new and more complex tasks need to be funded. This is similar when the government has allowed extra money to go to the police in that regard. But more money on the road only to uproot and fight organized crime, and I believe we've taken a big step in this fight here during this ideal period. I have to mention the studies of police who have come to a university and are doing well, and the University of Akureyri is doing a great job. Cooperation between departments within the police has greatly increased and cross-cutting cooperation that strengthens law enforcement in other areas in order to control the scope of organized crime. Then, too, the system of justice has won its weapons into the fight and points to new legislation, which involves dealing with money thefts, changes in human law of penal law, and so on. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. Like the rest of this world, there is a change. It is our job to ensure that law will last, and who knows, perhaps we will experience at some point that we see the criminals only on the white screen again.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u20	President. The fear of the common people is a strong weapon for ruling groups. By fueling fear, governments can drive righthearted individuals through a council. The council now has a bill of changes in police law to give the police additional clearances. No information is available on how current sources benefit the police and why they need this increased research right now. The answer just always seems to be an organized crime. Police research has always included a limit to privacy. Despite the threat of action against organized crime, this does not prevent another citizen from being treated with the source. If there is no proper surveillance on the use of research documents and why it needs to be increased, I believe there is a dangerous path being taken by providing increased and in some case uncircumcised sources to the police. After a discussion here in February, due to the Red Force shooting, it was apparent that the Ministry of Justice or the police do not intend to use it to prepare a legal hearing for further police pay of arms, but it now seems that the hearing is more relevant to the police research. It is not without reason that police research documents are restricted, and I reiterate what I stated in the work of the council on February 17 of the past, that additional and effective police surveillance and foreclosure should be carried out in the way of the research rights to the police.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u21	A respectable president. I want, like others, thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð, son of Gunnlaugsson, for bringing up this issue, was an important and urgent task to bring about a chain of organized crime. A choice of words. A senator, an experienced speaker, and maybe a member of the council. A approach, though, seemed a little strange to me, but it is an important subject that we discuss here today, and I want to thank the highest. Minister for detailed information. It was good to hear how much has already been done in these areas and how much has been done. Because the scope of this project is increasing, the minister sees for long periods of time. I'm not going to list the numbers and species of crime, but species is large, and the size is too high: 15 defined organized gangs, that's creepy numbers. I agree with what. paritaprevir As Olsen Gunnarsdóttir recalls her childhood in the Grinch, it was a time when you could leave your life unlocked and that you saw a few criminals in the movies. This has changed, but I have full faith in the highest. Minister, I think we're on the right track. Of course, we need to connect different organizations and promote law enforcement. Teamwork is always good, sharing information, and helping to bond these crimes. I'm here to talk about the online crime and the premeditated protocols, but there are a lot of people involved in this discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u22	A respectable president. With the exception of natural disasters, the State Marshal's Department of Organized Crime is considered to be a serious threat to society and individuals in Iceland. These are big words, but they are the evaluations of a U.S. Marshal who was traced to a report from 2019 C.E. At the same time, police assessment is that this is a structured operation that is organized in its nature, with both considerable funding and as the function of this body becomes stronger and more difficult for the police to resist it. It needs to be obtained before it is firmly established. That's why, on the part of the government, I'd like to say that it happens year after year that reports such as these will be presented without responding to the seriousness of the situation. In fact, it seems to be a transvestite in a government approach regarding infrastructure and institutions designed to protect the public by monitoring. The report of the 2019 diagnostics comes, e.g. ... inthe power of the Icelandic police to resist organized violations of offenses is considered minor. In fact, I think it may go so far as to say that the government's neglect against the public is not to do any better. The police must have the authority to approach a situation so that such activities can be prevented rather than respond to the unique issues that may surface. These are research that requires time, they're expensive, they cross borders, they require knowledge. It's a precision and patient job. A respectable president. There is a picture here. The picture is that the Independence Party has been conducting this Ministry for years, and the U.S. Marshal's message on the situation could not be clearer. There is considerable need for government officials in this regard, ensuring that police are financed in accordance with need and that they have people to live up to the need. [[The president calls.]] It is as if the government sometimes forgets when it comes to talking about the insides and their structure, that the police are first, of course, protecting the security of the citizens. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u23	A respectable president. This is a need for discussion and a long time. There has been an increase in organized crime in Iceland over the last few years. This is not new news. The U.S. Marshals' analysis department estimated that the exception of natural disasters was the most serious threat to society and individuals in Iceland. This report contained repeated warnings from a previous report from 2017: ▪ For all of this to be respected, the current situation will be concluded that, unchanged, it is not a failure to inhibit organized activities in the country. From the above, it can be seen that police ability to handle many of the lawsuits that fit the term "supervised Crime" has been reduced to the point of reducing the ability of the police to perform many of the lawsuits that fit the term '-designed criminal activity in the ◯ Despite this warning, the government did little to promote police in its struggle. A group of people considered this to be a serious situation and provided additional funding for the police in the fall of 2019, just to put up a fight against organized crime. The government voted against that proposal. A U.S.A. report on the murder of Red-Type said, with the permission of a president, that about three weeks before the murder, the police received information about a man who was armed with a pistol: U.S. Marshal Margeir Sveinsson, a central police detective in the capital area, reports that the immediate search for the gun began. The search, however, failed. [...] According to one poll, Margeir said that the police, of course, wanted to patrol anyone suspected of carrying a pistol with a silencer, but neither manpower nor time would allow it. Well, that's a little bit striking, isn't it? What's wrong with our community if we can't even make sure that a man who has a handgun with a silencer can be stopped? It tells us that there are more officers missing. I saw in a recent report that in order to obtain an adequate number of police in Iceland, it would probably have to be added to 180 local police officers. That is what I continue to do in my second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u24	Mr. President. A man is shot outside his home, nine shots. Word has it that it looked like execution. Is this a story from one of the millions of cities of North America? No, it happened here in Reykjavík a few weeks ago and was some sort of criminal settlement. This is a unique event in our community, in a land thought to be one of the safest things to live in. The nation awoke to a new reality. But was this to be such a surprise? No. Many times this was warned. In a report, the U.S. Marshal's diagnostic department identified the danger and suggested ways to resist. The harmful consequences of this operation are well and accurately described in the analyses department reports. The skills of the Icelandic police are thought to be ill when this threat comes into play. A new, inexpensive series, Kompás at Station 2, has been published to increase the intensity, the orders of insurance fraud, and the scores of millions of drug trades now mark the continent of Iceland. But are governments listening? And what has been done for all these years? The answer is: Almost nothing. The authorities have hit on sewer ears, the gang's gangs have grown only on the edge of the streets since the first warning of their rise. It is not sufficient or sufficient to reach the highest level. Ministers say that they intend to increase the number of courses or to promote the education of police officers. Much more needs to come along. V.E.G. A minister must be absolutely at the end of this discussion about what action he intends to take. The diagnostics are available. The information provided by the department can be found. We are facing the Red Deerthal Law. More weapons will be delivered to the police, the weapons enough to bring down the years of the organized gangs for good. [[The president calls.]] A minister needs to make sure that the threat of organized crime will be averted by any means necessary. All counsel.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u25	Mr. President. Like the rest of them. Senators I think we all have to face up to the fact that organized crime is a growing problem here, and we need to take action to deal with it. But it's already in place, as came the other way. magazines in the speech of the highest degree. Minister of Justice, that very many steps have been taken in recent years to deal with indications of the need for action to correct organized crime. These have been referred to as changes in law that have made a big difference in this relationship, and more money has been spent on research in this field. These are real things, real actions that matter in this regard. I think that's what we're talking about. In the context of what has been done in recent years, members of the council must consider these matters in the past. The minister of justice and its predecessor, where there has really been a decisive and decisive step in trying to deal with this problem we agree on the need to respond. This is what I think is important. You can say that some claims that have flown through the discussion today are not supported in the real world. However, we must take it positive from this discussion and say that at any rate, it is full of will in the council to take real steps to succeed in the struggle with organized crime. It will, for example. When we attend a discussion here at the council, either on the spring day or later, we try to see how police research can be supported, which is probably the most important thing in this regard. We have taken a very important step in strengthening police intelligence and cooperation in this area, but we need to take further steps in these activities, and there are measures, in addition to promoting the general law enforcement force, which are effective in this work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u26	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with other members of Congress that there are good reasons to promote law enforcement in the country to deal with criminal activities and organized crime, which are presented in various ways, in various forms of violence, by human sales, by drug trade, and by tax fraud. But it is hardly a matter to remember that the government canceled the office of an tax investigator who has done the work here alone, except for journalists and journalists, from the land of the Icelandic wealthy. There's probably an advising border surveillance by not allowing professionals to be involved in violence to do their work on the domestics. But I'm telling you, it's not necessarily the biggest challenge we face in this area, it's the second that young people in this country, especially young men, do not see the way of crime and gangry as more attractive than the other. There, the school system plays a key role in helping all to develop their abilities and educational skills to the point of the mind but also to master the basics of being an active and effective member of the community. There, the language is much bigger than we realize. A community that excludes people on the basis of their origin, language, appearance, or religion puts them at risk for the formation of a underworld where self - respect and recognition are denied in the community itself. V.E.G. President, I believe I'm the biggest project in the fight against crime and lawlessness.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u27	Mr. President. An organized crime is a threat to all communities. And since organized crime is being done cross-borderly, it is necessary to deal with it through cohesion, but of course also by handling it within each state, so there is a need for both. I'd like to discuss just the part of organized crime that is being discussed in the latest risk assessment report by the state police officer since May 2018, mentioned earlier in the discussion and that in Iceland there is evidence that there is a practice of manure and, in particular, a construction center, restaurant drivers, and tourism, as well as there are a number of points for organized prostitution to be increased in this country. This needs to be addressed, and as a result, I'm glad that there is now a treatment in the General and Education Committee to correct the change of universal penal law in terms of manseal. Mr. President. Because of it. I have to say that an apocalyptic associated these issues with the trustees. It is just the cooperation of countries with a good welcome to the solution to the trustors, not that each country constantly narrows down the way they receive people in need and thus makes them even more vulnerable to the mismanagement and oppression. [[The president calls.]] That is why it is of importance to welcome the refugees and ensure their social status. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u28	President. You see, it is so interesting with the crimes we are taught to be afraid of. I also grew up in the secure environment of Icelandic society, such as others in this room. I grew up with criminals being bad guys, those who were evil against children and old people. However, those words, organized crime, are so valid. It is repeatedly suggested that there is a foreign criminal organization, even a terrorist organization, or even a direct report. What, though, about the organized crime taking place openly; tax evasion, organized, and gross destructions and stealing of valuables? There are fragments that also have a profound impact on society. It is a work that reduces children's quality of life and robs older people of their life savings. It is the work that takes the nation's resources and uses them for their own interests and their descendants, bringing nothing of the resources to the nation. It's organized crime, human activities in suits, and people we're raised to trust. If we are really going to fight organized crime and secure the security and protection of society, maybe we need to think of ourselves a little closer. Organized crime involves more than just crime with guns in the street of people of foreign background. In this country, organized crime is also committed by Icelandic men in suits, and it is organized criminal activity that must be handled to ensure the prosperity of society.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u29	V.E.G. President. This discussion is good and sheds light on things but perhaps not necessarily new light. We know that this is a problem, and we need to take action, and it sounds to me that people, contrary to all categories, agree that we want to promote law enforcement and further improvement and to be successful, we need to be a team. Like what? paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir mentioned the interracial partnership not only within the country but also between countries. V.E.G. A minister mentioned previously regarding the expulsion of wrongdoers on the border, which certainly helps to reduce the growth of this criminal activity. I'm going to mention Schengen in this regard, be our guest in Schengen is also very important. There's a lot of cooperation and information there. We have, for example. recently accepted sources that provide us with access to a very powerful information system that will help us to deal with these issues. As for the research warrants, I agree that those who control such sources will, of course, be well and definitely, and all the processes will be well guaranteed by security and personal protection policies. I just want to get to Internet crime, but they've become a serious problem. I wanted to mention the QA in Tallinn, where we are involved. It has abundant growth and information and experience in these materials that we will now be able to apply. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask the highest. A minister will see if the law benefits us from our participation in the elsewhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u30	A respectable president. I wanted the second talk to mention only the influence of organized crime in a community. In spite of their variety, of course, all of them are negative in their own way. This applies to the incidence of crime, this applies to the severity of fractures, and this applies to the negative effects on the labour market, the business life, e.g. In terms of a confused competitive situation. This is particularly true of the government's loss of income, which is damage to the public. It has been pointed out and noted that the number of local police officers has not held up to new assignments. That's an old discussion. Officers doing research, e.g. In fact, in recent years the number of drug and other manifestations of organized crime has fallen. The law enforcement situation is, in effect, the ability of the police to deal with organized offenses is very low. These are the words of the analysis department itself. I would also like to mention only who are involved in this organized crime. These groups are as diverse as the activity they are involved in, a function that is certainly extending across borders. It is a global problem, but it is not a foreign problem, as I find the discussion sometimes mirrors. If we look at the numbers on the bacteria involved in these matters, it is certainly not that Icelanders are in the memory of the criminals in this regard, it is not. Emphasis on the highest. The minister of justice has now been on a new judicial hearing. That certainly is positive. But as long as it's the highest. Minister does not support law enforcement itself, the police itself, when such legislation sounds hollow, i.e. if the lawgiver can't use the tools he gives her. We are familiar with the discussion of the treatment period, which is a major problem in economic crime, e.g. money fraud, and tax fraud, which are a large part of the black economy. There I would like to say at the end of the report from 2017 that these are 3◯7% of the domestic product, approximately Ten percent of the total government income. [[The president calls.]] If, based on the fact that priority since 2016 was 4% of the domestic product, this would amount to 100 billion dollars. This does not mean all the tax benefits, with the lack of property in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u31	A respectable president. Police have called for extra funding to take better care of research and measures against organized crime, but little has happened. Sadly, before money can be used to prevent an accident, it is often necessary. We have seen many manifestations of organized crime recently, unfortunately. The threat is increasing, so defense needs to be intensified. We need to give the police all the help she needs in the fight. It must not be said that because of the lack of resources and the lack of human resources, the police need to give up surveillance on someone suspected of obtaining a handgun with a silencer. We have a system, Schengen system, on the edge of Europe, a system that also seems to be built up to keep criminals out, but at the same time there is a free movement within this area. In Europe, organized crime is common. We see mansal, we see children and others crossing Europe without ever being stopped. We need to change the system. I believe we need to return to border check and even use the Schengen system to stop crime. At the same time as this is going on, Iceland police are starving. I noticed the other day that for a year, I haven't been around a single police car on radar readings, not even one. I've never driven for a year back and forth, the same distances in and out of work, and I didn't have a single radar check. It tells us that the police are very expensive. It's too small. Clearly, while the police cannot care for their own simple duties, neither can they care about taking a man who walks around with a gun with a silencer and who is willing to commit a crime with her.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u32	Mr. President. Amongst the highest. A minister has mentioned, in terms of the response to this situation, is the situation that led to fewer tourists, that there has been a new police income, also obtained by the police from the release of so-called Šsilk Romana-doses from abroad, recent international rules on money laundering, and so on, what I learned about communication, cooperation, consultation, and harmony, which, of course, are very positive things, especially if they have been lacking. This, however, sounds like a system response to the problem rather than a solution based on the real nature of the problem. Compatibility and cooperation, of course, need to be part of it, but what about responding to all the other indications from these good diagnostics of the State Marshal's Department? What about the equipment? What about special people? What about funding? What about authority? What about expertise and technology? What about dealing with the misuse of the security system? Therefore, in view of the importance of this analysis, it is very detailed in these reports. And what about the rule? What about the authority to send criminals out of the country, foreign criminals? We need to act on this. It is not enough to deal with the present situation and to get worse, only by consultation groups. It takes real action to intervene in that area, not to attack activities that will help criminal activity, such as drug treatment, or the formation of a security system that facilitates its misuse.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u33	A respectable president. I thank everyone for this discussion. It's important. It has simply been a very clear priority for me and the Ministry and the Department and the Department of This Issue Police and for this measure of action. Of course, it is special to say a word or a word or a word. A senator was baited in the priority of money in the police department. We've been raising the money of the police in a few years from 14 to 17 billion. It is not only the financial resources that are put into service by the police but also because there is a clear priority in improving law enforcement in all areas. So we are continuing by ensuring human resources in an effort to ensure the safety of the citizens in the best way and to explain our priorities in handling the organized violations described in a report by the state police department. It's a U.S. Marshal himself who leads this work. There have been clear indications for me and for me. conducted as suggested in accordance with Article 89. The criminal law to alter the criminal investigation principle in order to expand values and conditions so that prior tests can be used, which can be of utmost importance in investigations relating to organized violations. This Regulation is being set up in the interest of criminal defenses that will include: are particularly responsible for police authorities and the ability to monitor and gather information in order to prevent organized crime, because of this. Councilmen also asked what was being done, not just what had been done. There is also the number of bills that have been approved here at the council, whether it is a procedure against money fraud, a law of personal information in the law of law, a bill of human law, changes in police regulations, changes in criminal exponents, and so on. This is a great deal of effort to improve the work of the police and enable us to cope with the problem, but it will be a permanent project, and we cannot stop. We need to move forward and realize that there is much work ahead of us so that the police can continue their performance, the funds, and the equipment needed to handle this. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But there has been a real priority in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u34	Mr. President. We're about to vote for a minority protection bill in hunting companies. It is supported by a natural class, an article that includes a great change in qualifications for those who make the committee of the committee of the Committee of Assessments, which plays an important role. In accordance with current law, two of the three members of the committee need appropriate conditions for the office of local judges. This requirement is to be canceled so that there is no legal requirement in this committee, where legal statistics for careful court treatment and other procedures are under strict pressure. Therefore, we have proposed an adjustment in terms of the removal of this bill so that this will be the same situation. Large demands are placed on those who make this committee of assessment clear of what the bill expects. I got it. I got it. Councilmen to pay for our adjustment of plans. paritaprevir His vote of Sigurður for Páll Jónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u35	A respectable president. This bill suggests changes in salmon and trout law, No. 61/2006, who aims primarily to strengthen the minority protection in a hunting society with special guidelines on the value of meetings. With the Laws quoted above, No. 61/2006, it is recommended that we be in a fishing club. This is based on a law set up before a century ago, where a fishing partner's role is to divide into fishing in accordance with their rights. Clearly, in these laws it is assumed that the fish stocks in fresh water are used, that they are caught. It should be done in a sustainable way. The purpose of occupies is to use the common fish for the overall benefit. This is an important law we've had here, and the council has taken place for a century and discussed it from time to time. This has been two years' work on a professional committee, and I think we have a good decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u36	President. This matter has made a very positive change in the conduct of the council as regards the fact that the matter no longer applies to Icelandic citizens. The changes made on the bill were essential. However, there is still a matter of interaction between the average and the basic necessities of this matter, which includes the time of this case, which requires that this bill be a law, authorized by law to the minister until the end of 2022. I just want to mention here that I present a change in this particular point at the 3rd. The point.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u37	Mr. President. That was interesting, it might as well fit his chair. This matter has been taken on an interesting record at the council since its first appointment by the Environment and Transport Committee for about Two months. To make a long story short, the committee split into its case, and three committees were mentioned. Two of them had adjustments, and they were sort of heading for a failure to complete this matter properly. However, the majority of the committee's proposals are to be commended that when the case was called into question, it was a fine way to establish a solidarity with the Committee on Change, all those who had been proposed, so solidarity was achieved in the committee. I would have liked to see the matter discussed more, and there are other factors that might be considered in this matter, especially in view of a significant change in risk management during the two months that have passed. [[The president calls.]] In particular, the change that the committee agreed on is that what is under, the one presented here, with the support of a good body of members, would prevent the spread of the land from bringing an end to the United States. That was a very important change, so we support the issue as it seems today.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u38	President. I just want to thank you for the actions of the council on the case. We pointed out that it is possible to control matters there. 66. g. The Constitution says it would not be necessary for an Icelandic citizen to come to a country that was just a very rich subject to whether this would include the country. We saw that it could be the only thing that would happen with this permission to the minister could be avoided by an Icelander to come to the country and not only that it could be possible, but it would be the duty of a airline to do that if it were maintained, it would be necessary to correct the fines and then to judge the penalties. As we pointed out in the discussion, it is natural that if people do not meet these requirements that remain in prison, they are only arrested and infested in Iceland under the law that is currently in force. But you don't mean Icelandic citizens coming to America. It was adjusted so that we seem to pass the constitution in this regard and thank you for finally being heard so that we could get along with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u39	Mr. President. As a carrier of this whole thing, I only need to get information here. First, that's what it's like. A senator was discussing the above. We had just landed this question on the constitution. The whole committee had taken care of the case with one of the three committees. As it happens, two members of the Parliament request that the committee be reinvigorated, and that is when it comes to the requirement for a valid time. This is the case with an 18 month period. This is to help cope. There are now 178 countries on the high risk list. It can happen again. This Regulation, which is reviewed every four weeks, may well have to be taken into consideration, and it is, of course, very difficult to bring up a matter of Congress here and to restore these laws with all that is involved. Therefore, this 18 - month period is very moderate, and I'm not talking about when the Regulation is reviewed every four weeks.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u40	President. Actually, I was going to comment on the vote, but it doesn't matter. This is a case with a very positive signature, a positive objective, with a whole code of European rules. In recent years, it has happened repeatedly that we have legalized such law columns without knowing fully what real effect it will be to form a small company in Iceland. In recent times, there have been cases where even a small Icelandic company has been fined millions of dollars for doing nothing but being unable to meet all the latest paperwork requirements. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, president of the Economic and Business Committee, has, in a number of cases, indeed all, brought up with such cases on them a significant improvement, and that is appropriate in this case too, nothing to be accused of in this matter. But this is where the Ministry should have offered a case tailored to Iceland rather than to foreign corporations. The objective, however, is positive, so there is no reason to object. But I don't vote for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u41	A respectable president. I'd like to recommend our committee party at the moment. The Foreign Affairs Committee for New Iceland's Environment. It's especially fun that we can discuss this matter here in view of the meeting in this country, now that we're decoupling ourselves with the head of the Arctic Council. The Commission has discussed the matter and has met with a member of the Department of State, from Rannis, from the University of Iceland, the University of Akureyri, from the Arctic Circle, from the Northern Pacific of Iceland, and from the founding of William Stephen's son. The committee also received reviews from these sources. By the proposal, the General of the Government shall assign a policy to the North Sea policy, which is based on 19 emphasises. These focus factors were developed in a cross political agreement within the Senate Committee on reviewing Iceland's policy on northern affairs. The policy will deal with the task of introducing the Arctic as an important part of the world in a wide sense, in terms of the smallness, breadth, and diversity of ecosystems. Iceland's focus is on combating climate change, adaptation to the environmental impacts of climate change, international cooperation, peace, human rights, equality, impacts and rights, and finally on social and economic well - being. According to the proposal, foreign and development co-worker is assigned to develop a policy-making programme and its follow-up. Comments to the Committee presented satisfaction with focus factor 16 and 17 on policy, i.e. To strengthen the state and image of Iceland as a northern states, to build national knowledge, to promote international scientific cooperation in the north, and to shape a northern study plan. Newsmen rejoiced that further research in northern and international scientific cooperation would be needed, and community development was repeated in terms of knowledge and sound research. The importance of the north is increasing, and it would be necessary to focus on the issues of the north, where future society's projects were challenging and called for forward - looking solutions, intensive cooperation, and wide knowledge of the educational community, state, rural society, and private members. The reviews also included pleasure with focus factor 12, i.e. to support monitoring with improved communications and the spread of satellite systems. The Commission's review gave different perspectives on the 19th focus of policy policy, on promoting Akureyri as the centre of the Northern URL in Iceland, and promoting international consultations and cooperation on the affairs of the north. It was noted that the educational community in Akureyri had taken the lead in researching communities in the northern regions, and it called attention to the affairs of the north among the Icelanders. Scholars in Akureyri would need support to continue this work. Commenting on the University of Akureyri, the school in 2001 found its establishment in the University of the North, the International Association of University and Studies in the North. At school, there is an offer for studies in Arctic education and for a master's degree in Arctic rights. At the University of Akureyri, there is a work of a very powerful educational community in the fields of sustainable and social and environmental change in the north. On the other hand, studies in the Arctic and the need for knowledge to be applied in the capital area were also made available throughout the country. A review of Iceland's University pointed out that to further research in the Arctic and to make the most of the scientific research available in this country, it is important that all the universities of the country work together. National scholars would need to be encouraged for increased cooperation, which would further strengthen them with applications of foreign funds and projects. The committee rejoices that there has been a counter-regulated review of Iceland's Arctic policy. The previous U.S. political policy against the media was based on a conference resolution since 2011, and the development of political and environmental developments in the north has been extremely rapid in recent years. Northern issues are closely related to Iceland's international interests and need to be clear about government policy. It is a new policy in the affairs of the north to the advantage of working with it has been done in cooperation with members across political groups and having agreed with diverse economists. The policy is taken from a complete vision in northern regions, where northern issues are faced with a range of schemes. The Commission reiterates the importance of cooperation between national scholars and northern research institutions. The 19th aspect of the policy is not to be understood, however, in the field of foreign research, only in Akureyri, which is specifically encouraged to improve consultation in the topic field. To maximise the influence of Icelandic scholars on a global scale, an all - time Icelandic community needs to be developed. A number of visible projects will only be solved on the basis of a large number of data sources, scientific research, and innovation. The Commission encourages the secretary of state and development to work hard on policy implementation. It is important to increase cooperation between councils and institutions in the topic field to ensure that the ambition shown by policy takes place in real action with the means of financing. The Commission reiterates the need for a minister to be informed about the work of other advisers and that a minister maintains the Agency's activities. According to this, the committee proposes that the proposal be accepted. Under the heading, everybody writes to each other. Foreign Affairs Committee, i.e. Yeah. Councilmen Sigríður On. Andersen chairman, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Resa Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bjonkjólflfsdóttir, who stands here, Logi Einar Einarsson, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Ginsdóttir, Trausti Sigri Guðmundsson, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, and Þorgerður Katrín Gunnarsdóttir. A respectable president. Then the State Department's opinion of our northern policy reads. As I said at the beginning of my speech, I think it is safe to be glad that we are at this point able to handle this matter from the General Assembly of the Icelanders. It has been ten years since the last Council resolution was adopted in 2011 and it can be said that there has been a significant change in this area as such. We will constantly witness that the ice will melt as never before, so the international community is increasingly looking into this area. It's a good thing to mark that mark now, when we give up our lead in the Council of the North and North Pole, but here are the foreign ministers of the nations in charge of ships. We also see tremendous interest in this area and its future among the nations that are far away from us on the map. As I've talked about before, when the Arctic comes, you'll see that there's so much interest and so far away from us. There's some reason for that, and there's probably a lot of them. The more important it is that Iceland has a clear policy on this case. A respectable president. I think that the course here is being considered as a focus of our attention. Of course, they vary, for there is a particular matter. The heart is the climate and the environment, but it's also the telecommunications, the shipping routes, the security. But the point that we only stressed in the committee opinion is the opportunity for us Icelanders when it comes to innovation and research on the different ethnic groups. I say that for my part, I think the opportunities there are huge. What a joy it was to have good visitors who have been doing research that can be done in the north! Then some may wonder what it is exactly like, and it is true that the University of Akureyri and the Society there, with the Northportina, the Founding of William the son of Stephen and the office of mercenaries, i.e. Of course, projects under the Arctic Council are direct examples of Arctic research, which are practiced in so many places. Thus it can be said that a lot of science studies on weather, environment, and other aspects of Iceland's University also depend on Arctic research. It's one of the things we had in our conversations that Icelandic scientists may have to beat their chests more, introduce themselves to them as scientists at the time of a North-generation investigation. But as we came on to the committee opinion, it is one thing to see these opportunities, and they are published in this direction, and with these 19 points there is a paper that is detailed in the points in question, but other to the practical opportunities there, allowing policy to be realized. It is clear that funding needs to be covered in these important research. However, this alone is not enough; it also ensures the application of the results obtained from the studies. It is also clear that, although he has a right to the State Department, this is a foreign case, there are so many issues involved. Therefore, it is very important that the Ministry of State finds ways to keep a tight grip on the strands working in the northern regions and, as we say here, informs us at the General Assembly on the progress of this policy. It is also clear that a number of institutions are working in this category, and the more important it is to hold on to all these threads so that it is clear who is doing what and how we make the best use of the skills and knowledge of institutions, individuals, and university to work in this language. A respectable president. I think I'll let it end here. Thank you very much. President for the opportunity to bring this matter up quickly and safely. However, as noted in a committee program, this general stand is at hand. As a result, the document was written on a transnational committee, it should have received extensive publicity among all political parties. How happy we have been able to have the subject on our schedule on this day!
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u42	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, please. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, for taking us to the Committee of Foreign Affairs and rejoicing that we should be discussing for the second time a proposal for a resolution of Iceland's policy in the affairs of the north. It is particularly interesting at this breakthrough in the following days, during a large and remarkable meeting of the Arctic Council here in Iceland, where Iceland produces a successful prehumanity in the hands of another North Pole, Russia. New Arctic policy replaces current policy adopted on spring days 2011. During this period of the decade, things have changed a lot. The picture, whether it is environmental or international in politics, is very different. The work that is already faced by communities is doing even more in the immediate future, and conditions are challenging. This calls for a farsighted, powerful cooperation, both regional and international. In many ways, the northern communities are very special. There's a cottage in most places. They are remote, and many of them lack necessary wood. Yet, our communities are not uniform. This is an enormous region, the northern regions that we define. In this vast area, some 4 million people live. In many places, areas are well equipped with technology, and even Internet and electronic connections are good, and many technical factors are in a more stable area. These areas are working very seriously in green and environmental solutions, since these areas may be more aware of this than many others, feeling it in their own skin, what changes are taking place in our environment and climate. The human life in the north is an aspect that is all - out in our mind. The situation differs, but most of the time, deep - seated communities with their unique culture and culture, which have different ideals for the inhabitants. A common factor must be addressed, i.e. Transport, communication, health care, and educational opportunities All of this is the interest in life for all the people, and especially for young people. That is what we have in mind, to create a future for young people, to choose a future location and to build up in the north. The native settlements are part of what we call people in the north, and six indigenous organizations are involved in the Arctic Council. We've always spoken the indigenous language on behalf of Icelanders and on the suggestion that Iceland's policy may be compromised. With regard to the things I've had in mind, the Western Council, which I'm so happy to sit on, has emphasized these aspects of my work. The Western body consists of Iceland, the Faeroe Islands, and Greenland. We have given special attention to the lives of young people in the north. Mr. President. As noted in the report by a member of the Committee opinion, this policy is in 19 teams. I'll let you say that you did well. The project was met with a view to the vast majority of things that are urgent and that have become persistent. It's the environmental factors, it's pollution, and it's that huge increase in the traffic of freight ships and, in fact, cruise vessels around the North, have to say, " Call for specific alertness." It is a vast, wide area that is hard to keep track of. Then, of course, we are discussing that the voyage north will open in the next decade or the next two decades. Thus, the risk of pollution accidents is real, and the safety of seafarers needs to be considered. This pollution threat, whether caused by oil spills, toxic chemicals, radioactive materials, or plastic waste, is required and is discussed in this suggestion. Finally, Mr. President, I would like to mention one thing that is also killed in a new Arctic policy. It is safe for those traveling the north, whether in the sea or in the air, as well as for guidance systems, telecommunications, and gevnith guidance. There are severe failures that affect accuracy and traffic, especially the interlocking and stability of the air traffic in the North Atlantic, and directly and physically, and particularly of the Icelanders and Greenlands. These satellites are of two kinds. On one hand, the European network, EGOS, and then the American WASS, but at present both these countries, Greenland and Iceland, are on the edge of being able to use this technology, even if that is done in part. You have to come up with a contract to access both systems or both, and hopefully you'll make it. The latest information tells us that treaties are being negotiated in the European Parliament. Mr. President. The proposed proposal that Congress resolution highlights the importance of the work being done in the Arctic and other Arctic institutions. There, the Icelanders will continue to contribute, as they have so far. I think that's what I'm sure there's a lot of pride in it. Full will is to do so, as is the 19 suggestions that the policy implies.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u43	A respectable president. I'm taking a commission view of a change in proposal from a greater part of it. The General and Education Committee for the Support of Private Media Forces. The committee, however, received quite a number of envelopes and many visitors, but the matter has been over a long period of time, not just after this government began it, but for many years, and will definitely continue, how we will improve the media work environment and support a democratic discussion in society, thus building under the democracy. This was our mission, i.e. This unique bill of law, but I repeat, it takes a lot more to improve the media environment in Iceland. But so I'll just grab off the committee's opinion, the highest. President, it says here.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: THE Committee's meetings were a significant subject to foreign chemical and flow groups, particularly in terms of their status in advertising markets and their tax environment. A major part of the need to improve the position of the unique media is that they play a vital role in a democracies community. Furthermore, a greater proportion of households and international media needs to be leveled. In this sector, the more part takes place that the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs and Education and Cultures has considered the taxation of the foreign chemical and flow groups or the taxation of electronic companies with foreign sources. A greater proportion of the perks of the importance of the speed at which possible work flows, however, some percentage of advertising revenues flow from the country, not paying the same taxes and obligations, as if advertised within the country. Changes proposed to the majority of the part - The committee considers D-joins 2. ..... Business support requirement: ▪ The Committee had some comments on conditions for management support listed in Article 2. The bill and the changes made in it since the bill to correct the change to the press law, No. 38/2011 [...] was submitted to the 150th legislation (458th case), in particular in terms of termination of the version frequency requirement. The greater part points out that according to the bill, the criteria are required to strengthen those who directly promote democracy in the country by means of a news transfer and informed discussion. In view of this objective, the majority of the items are considered to be desirable to be required for minimum distribution rate and to be expected by the printing media to be published at least 20 times a year, but networks, audio and image servers, and other comparable media should communicate new news, news related material, or coverage of community issues on week 20 of the year. This made it clear that there is a lack of power. In this context, the greater proportion indicates that according to a-compliance 2 above. The bill shall support and promote publications on the news, news-related topics, and information on community issues by providing private media drivers with support for some of the costs involved in obtaining and administering such materials. Furthermore, the majority suggest a change in wording of two words. Number 2. d-joints 2. gr. the bill, so that the media medium has been working with a media board registration for 12 months or more. The law specified only the media, which had worked on the basis of permission, but not all media are authorized by Article 17. Act of the press, but due to Article 14. Same song. [...] Based on E- team 2.g. the bill goes down the direct cost of pay for the unique media because of the amendment and the provision of materials for supportable costs. The term pay expenses includes both pay and pay-related pay and is a total wage for more specific employees in the editor. In the treatment case, it was noted that the pay cost of metabolites does not depend on remuneration costs. The majority of the evidence suggests that the pay cost of metabolites is also expected here and suggests that changes in their costs. This suggests that the majority of the pieces agree with the wording of the law and the wording of a-party 2.g. the bill so that direct pay costs fall to obtain and share news, news, news, and information on community issues. [...] According to C- team 2. the bill shall be followed by an application for management support, as well as the follow-up data, no later than March 31rd of each year. That's 3rd. suggested that the law be accepted on January 1, 2021. In view of both the deadlines, the larger part suggests changes to allow application deadlines to be made on August 1 and, on the other hand, that the law is already valid so that priming can be started, such as by order of an intervention committee, and advertising for sector support applications. In view of the fact that the larger part suggests that an application deadline will be made on August 1, the greater part considers the law to be desirable on the same day. This allows a measure of time from the execution of the law to organise the work of the Branch Committee and the implementation of its distribution. [...] In the treatment of the matter, there has been an idea that the methodology needs to be explained more fully to support the system and to ensure that the system will be affected in a positive way by the diversity and diversity of the media market. Likewise, the position of the smaller media needs to be considered in this context. The importance of services and the price of mail services was then highlighted in the management of local media. You might consider setting up a competitive fund to balance the situation and competitiveness of the media. A greater proportion of the support systems set out in this bill will be considered to be a closer consideration, including taking into account the above views, but will also be considered along with the review of foreign chemical and flow taxes. In view of this, the greater part is now considered to be a temporary support system to be held on December 31, 2022, due to the mediating of the news and news reports in 2020 and 2021. In view of the above, the majority of the items contribute to the change. The majority realize that some of the provisions are intended to be permanent. However, the greater part suggests that the law will remain as long as it is decided to extend its time. So here's a chapter about other changes. This is a full list, but I'm going to slide over it for the highest. President: ▪ The more part suggests elimination of 5 mg. and case 1. F-joints 2. where there is a recurrence of 3 mg. c-arms 2. g. The bill. Then the more part will be suggested to end the 1st case. 1.mg. F-joints 2. to be consistent with the c-, d-, and E team 2. The bill. At the same time, a greater proportion will be assigned to remove the final figure of 7th. d-joints 2. gr. where the law applies for the strength that comes to you because of the pandemic and is therefore unnecessary. In addition, the majority suggest minor word changes that are not intended to influence the subject of the bill. In view of the above, the greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following changes. I'm going to read it, too. I have plenty of time for that: ▪ 1. The words "smbr." 1stItems 14th and 1st. 1st par. ... goout. 2. We're on 2. a. Instead of the date ▪31. of March ◆ of 1 mg. c-populations and 3 mgr. [ Picture Credit Line on page 2] - Like I crossed the clock and its purpose. ◯b. Following the words "sent " in the 2nd issue of this magazine. d-joints arrive: or registration. - Necessary word change. ▪c. After number 3. d-joints are entering new numbers, as follows: Printing servers should be released at least 20 times per year. Network servers, audio and image servers and other comparable media should share new substances on active days for 20 weeks per year. - So, this is about this version rate. ▪d. Instead of the words "year " preceded by" the number " 5 and 7 of the above words. D-joins, come in: the next year before. - Compute change. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Instead of the word "portages " to 5th. Come on, boys: next. B.T. 2, p.m. Number 7. D- men will be removed. g. After the word "o." Following the word "performor" in the "E" team, you will find: metabolites. h. In place of the words'♫ Because of the amendment and media of matter ♫ In the a- and b-a team of e- teams come: to provide and share news, news, news-related information, and discussion on community issues. i. Case one. 1.mg. F- crews are to be removed. j. 5 mg. F- crews are to be removed. K. Case one. 6 mg. F- crews are to be removed. I. Third speech. 7 mg. F-men say: If the decision is made to reduce support levels, either the applicant should repay the state's funds in less than ten days after the decision is announced or the money has been withdrawn from the management support determined on the basis of next year's application. 3. After 2nd. A new article, as follows: At 64 C.E. There is a new paragraph to be added, as follows: Section X-B falls from January 1, 2023. 4. Section 3. Put it this way: This law is already valid, but it will be carried out on August 1, 2021. I'm not gonna have any more of those words, chief. President. It's been a terrible list. Under this committee, the publication of this magazine, as well as the chairman of the Committee, has been published by Jehovah's Witnesses. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Birgir Ármannsson's son, and Þóra Enra Árnadóttir
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u44	A respectable president. We're here on bill to legalize the media law, support for the private media. I just have to say, I think this is one of the stupidest things I've been doing here at the council, about putting the private media that's thrown out of the premeditated people on the state floor. I'm afraid that once we do it, they'll be there forever and this will cost the growth of this support. The second thing is, this is being added because the biggest elephant is already in the market. The pink elephant that controls it all, the State Radio, the state racing, has largely the advertising market. I ask: Did not the committee come up with an opinion and would not have been the best start with them at the beginning of an advert of an advert, thus giving the competition an opportunity and the same time to take on foreign hosts that are at the market and make sure that this market and those who are on it live or die rather than add to private resources? The people who get most of this money are exactly the biggest media that's being driven by the premeditated agents who can continue to run this thing without landing on the state wall, and that should not be a problem. As I say, I fear that if they once come, they will be there and that this will go on. At the same time, it is said that there is no money for people lacking food.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u45	A respectable president. I hear what you're saying. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson is against it. It's okay. There are only many views associated with this case, and that is naturally why we have had this project for a very long time in our hands, i.e. To find a way to secure the work environment of the media in Iceland, thereby building an open, enlightened, democratic discussion to strengthen our democratic society, which is very important to keep in. That certainly does not happen. I'll figure out where it came from. A senator is coming to respect his opinion on the matter. For RUS has the highest standards. Education and cultural minister, like what? A senator knows, a group of people a few months ago that was supposed to reexamine the operation of VOLV by a number of factors, not just the advertising market. The task force listed here has not resulted. I can say, however, that it is in my opinion every reason to limit the space that RUS has at a commercial market. At least I'd like to take a step in that direction. The taxation of foreign media - I mentioned in my history that the majority of the committees encourage that this project be carried out. I'm going to answer some more of the senator's questions in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u46	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answers. Well, tell you what, we're strengthening the private media at a market that's driven by rich people who don't need strength. At the same time, we have this giant RUSB. There are 7,000 million, 7 billion of them. If we put it in touch with some little multicenter that's in one room with a few computers and a few employees, they really fit on it. It would be much easier for us to focus on trying to figure out how we can strengthen these little media, national media, and others, rather than putting it out to everyone. The last of all and the most bizarre of all, considering how to do this, they will get the most that should least be given, but the people who need it most is the least. There is, of course, another factor that would have been far more effective than it would have been. To help the media that are highly competitive toward foreign media, to make possible the translation of child content and various material in English to maintain the Icelandic language, we would have put money in it rather than ever to place 100 million and even more in the media that need nothing of this money and have enough funds to do so in order to keep their own press work.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u47	V.E.G. President. So I'm going to continue to answer questions or ask questions as a question. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson mentioned in his answers when I naturally disagree with the senator's claim that money is being shoveled into some very rich people. Of course, the media's owners vary in money. The one standing here has, for example, been Working for years in a small local news media called Viking News, who knows how to create an environment of local news media. We also share in this matter of network services and media services. This is not just about television stations, but it is also very different. You can't put these companies under the same hat and claim that money is being shoveled into very rich people because it certainly isn't. This is a law change, a procedure, including to react to Covid and to the impact of the outbreak on the environment of these mediators. For information, I also direct the senator to read and review what is said on page 24. 6 and 7 on the bill. It summarises statistics about the media's environment. There you see black people in white how much money the media have made in a relatively short period of time. If we look back in time only a decade, it's a dozens of percentages of income contractions. As I said, the bill's objective is to strengthen a democratic discussion in Iceland, but also Icelandic because we want the Icelandic and powerful media in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u48	A respectable president. I agree with that. A senator likes us to have strong media in Iceland and diversity. I'd like to state that although I didn't sign the committee opinion, I support the main subject of the bill and its objective, but I and a senator with me, we have a motion to make on the committee's opinion. I'd like to ask you what. A senator into this period of time, which is a little overwhelming to me, altered the proposal of the more part to temporarily timeize the options. It says here, by permission of the President: In view of this, the greater part now feels that there will be a temporary support system that will be held on December 31, 2022, due to mediating and reporting through 2020 and 2021. I feel that the support for this is unclear, and I'd like to ask you why. A senator whether this is not a risk to the media's environment, which makes it harder and even unduly difficult for the media to deal with, since naturality is also less reliable for the media and becomes more difficult to plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u49	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The divinity of Andri Thorsson to the counter and the question of why the greater part suggests that the support system will be valid until December 31, 2022. I'm sorry that I was blurred in my speech earlier. The main reasons are, first of all, Covid, that is a major reason for us to take the situation a little less when the impact of the epidemic is reduced, but not least the review now taking place in other areas of the media environment in Iceland, and I mentioned it earlier. Among other things, we have work to do with the activities and field of activity of the State Radio. That project is complicated, and it's been going on for a very long time, as long as I can remember, and maybe I'm not old, but I'm in middle age. Still, it is a subject that we need to keep talking and move on. Even if that work is going on, however, there is no need for everything else to go on. So I believe this change of law supports the way that the goal we want to go, i.e. To strengthen a democratic discussion in Iceland and the Icelandic language as well as me. A senator cares a lot about both of them, I know. I'd also like to mention a review of the tax environment in which foreign groups live here, i.e. that we need to do that work, and it takes time too. The options were not to do anything, to wait for all that work or to take care of it now and try to resolve it, and I hope we can get it here at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u50	A respectable president. I may not have been quite right to say that there were inexplicable reasons. I just didn't think they were good enough and I still love them. Everything is natural and everything is gone forever, and if we always take that polar in the hill, we never do anything. This kind of fund, staff there, must find ways to cope with different situations at one time. In my second answer, I'd like to ask you a question. A senator to see if she cannot risk it, if not covered by these strengths, such as that. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Igngi Kristinsson came to the point, that the big parties, the biggest party, will take over the share of the change. This is a limited amount of money, and if it is not covered, the majority of the funds are likely to run to the big parties, as they did in the Covid strengths, and the little press is waiting for a very small object and may not even get anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u51	V.E.G. President. Whether the reasons are good or not, you can naturally debate. I think they're valid, though. It's not simple and there's a Covid, as I said before. At any rate, we need to unite in the goal of which I assume that the World of Congress agrees. We cannot continue to debate which to begin with and about accurate design. We have to start somewhere because the numbers show us. I quoted earlier in text in the bill itself, as there is a comprehensive review of the media sector information, and you can see it very well, since there have been a very large number of revenues in recent years. There are many reasons for this. The environment is difficult, and then these foreign groups and others are added. Of course, there are great and rapid changes to this market, which we need to take on because this is happening so quickly. I think if we do little or nothing, maybe we won't be much longer with the powerful Icelandic media. Netflix is very good for itself as a certain form of recreation and supplement, and You Tube possibly and more media, but I don't want to lose my local newscasts and the State Radio and N4 and all the good media we still have here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u52	A respectable president. I hereby explain a committee party with a change in proposal from the memory of the General and Education Committee. ▪ The main part supports the objective and main subject of the bill, since the environment of the environment in particular media is on the country in such a way that there is reason to run to it. The competitiveness of the individual media is greatly disturbed by the efforts of international giants who do not have to pay taxes or pay in this country, and the share of the State Radio on a commercial market is so much less likely to be replaced by other national media. The democratic and cultural importance of the media cannot be overemphasized. In this environment, independent media are a particularly difficult source, but rich people can protect parts of their property to run the media. Such circumstances may require workers to be pressured by media owners to write news and articles that are drawn by owners. The minority agrees with the aim of promoting the free media in Iceland and is deeply concerned about the status of free media in Iceland. As the reviews of the smaller media show, a greater part of the estimated strength would flow to the biggest media in Iceland if the bill is adopted in the same form. Thus, concentrations do not involve the motivation to maintain a sustainable management environment, which has been successful in the efforts of many of the smaller media. So, in view of my share, the bill does not serve its well - defined purpose, to promote diversity and to create a small and new media in an acceptable environment. The media play a key role in the support of rulers. A fourth power is one of the cornerstones of a democratic community. Over the years and years, the informants of the past miseries have shown us how important their work is and how powerful a device they can be when it comes to fighting corruption. The media are under attack at many fronts, and the media has had to protect themselves from the unfounded speech and slander campaigns of those mentioned. It is important for the public to have access to the media in which they strive to tell the news professionally, to accept the work of journalists, and to guide the standards of Iceland's National Society. This enables people to form opinions based on facts and information rather than on false stories and interest stakeholders. The review of the Contestant Commission reminds us that the main objective of the media law, No. 38/2011, is promoting the diversity and diversity of the media. In a paper with a bill that became the law No. 38/2011 presents the view that the purpose of the law is to ensure cultural and political diversity and to contribute to the evaluation, decision-making, and participation of democratic decisions. The lesser part agrees with the above views, thinking that there will be special consideration for the diversity and diversity and competitiveness of the smaller media. The minority feels that the goal of the bill will be better achieved by having the funding increased and the funds lower, as was the objective of the bill submitted by the minister of education and culture at the 150th legislature, the 458th case. Such arrangements can make a big difference in the business of the smaller media and should ensure that more media, with more materials, can gain a stronger economy. The smaller section suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. mg F-joints 2. puts it: a maximum of 25% of the applicant's supporting cost of management should be observed, dr. 62. g. H. Support for the candidate, however, should only exceed 50 million. K.◯ Under the circumstances, the one standing here, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, and the od. paritaprevir Olga Margrét Cilia. To this, I may not be too much to add unless I want to underline it and deny that one of the most important resources in each democratic society is free media, free of media, free from media, where a professional and critical discussion gives power support, and keeps public informed. Then I'd also like to state that free media is not about possession, as it is often said, it is not about whether the media are successful, whether they belong to this or owned the other person, but is about the freedom of the workers from interference by owners or political agents. Free media is a matter of commitment to civil and professional standards and confidence with the public who want to shape their views on the basis of information and facts rather than being fed on troll stories and propaganda interests. Fortunately, such media are still in the country, but their operating ground is very sick, not to be taken lightly. I believe that the tax is well spent to strengthen the operating ground. Because it was here a little bit that the State Radio, often called the elephant in the living room, might be mentioned as being such a multicenter medium. I think The Kingdom News is, and should be, a free polycenter, free medium, who will serve no one other than the people, the people who own this media. Let's get on to it not to be an elephant in the living room, but to the living room itself with elephants and other animals and only as the most diverse life that reflects the entire population, and not just the national life as it is today, but as far back as it is possible to reflect it. The national radio is supposed to be a mirror for the nation to look into, and not just the Government Radio but also the media who have the role. They do this in ways that are different from the Kingdom News; they do not necessarily have the same obligations as does the Kingdom Hall, which also allows them room to use other means. Yet, the media is a trade, it is a special subject, just as it is to be a shopkeeper or gardener or carpenter or anything. This is about getting news and sharing it. And in order to gain news, a certain work ethic and a certain code of ethics are guided, and when news is given the guidance of a certain honesty, a confidence is established with those who are served, as it were, to readers or listeners. The journalist or the mediaman believes that he does not have responsibilities with the owner of a private media, above all, but those who enjoy the work that is common in the country. For the general population in the country, this is done to make it possible to enjoy national media. It happened during the days that I received the answer to a written inquiry that I had sent to the highest degree. Secretary of the digital taxes as it is called, i.e. on the activities of the foreign chemical forces and other such international giant corporations, which work cross-borderly and have headquarters somewhere where such companies have headquarters, perhaps even on Tortoles, they may all be there. They do not pay taxes and obligations in this country, but they earn a considerable amount of money in this country, especially by advertising and subscription sales. In answer to the highest. A current minister of finance found that OECD and, indeed, the European Union also have work to find out how taxation will be best used in such activities. This is shown in the answers to the highest. Secretary of finance is hoping that the decision might be made in the middle of this year. Once such a conclusion is made on a international level, OECD and probably the European Union, we Icelanders should also be able to respond to it. If a person so happily assumes that he or she can get some tax ties into this operation, it will mean a significant change for the environment and the competitiveness of the media, even though it may not have a major impact. I think it's important that such a fund, that there's a certain commitment to such a operation, and a measure of presupervisability. I think it's important to be able to assume such a treasure, that it's not an annual uncertainty about it. I don't expect that I will support the change in the rest of the section. Most of the time, I've been through my committee's opinion on this matter, which we support, thus completing this talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u53	A respectable president. We're discussing support to the private media, and this was a story with a minority at stake in that case. Hv. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson spoke of the short period. I'm asking, "How far should this period be?" Five years? Is this a revised law? Should the amount be raised in an index, or should it be determined if it requires more funding? Has he foretold what it should be like? And then the other thing, I see that the smaller part makes it a suggestion, at least to improve, that the cost of operating should be at least 25% of supporting costs. What stings me a little is that it's not more than 50 million. If we look at 50 million in a bigger context - I think I have the right amount, there are about 500 million who are going to do this - there are only ten people who could get that amount. I'm thinking about the little magazines, these local newspapers that are really fighting. I agree that we need to strengthen our environment. I say for my part that I enjoy reading these news magazines, now in Kópavogi, and earlier in Hafnarfjördur. I don't want to lose them, but I know that my children are not interested in reading them. So it's getting a little bit vague how we're supposed to do this - I understand that we need to build this up, but at the same time, I also realize that we can't be strengthening someone who can fully afford to run his media, those who don't need strength.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u54	A respectable president. Hv. A senator noted that the media he is interested in are the media, but his children are not interested. They will be interested in the media. A senator mentions. Perhaps we should set the time limit when the time will come when they will be interested in it. Timeout, I don't have the opinion of it shaped, but I believe it's too short to keep it for just one year. However, it is not necessarily something that is really the norm in the way of the operation or distribution rules. Rather, I view it as the development of experience in the operation and people whose machines recognize the weaknesses that arise and what needs to be strengthened. Of course, it will be revised every five years, but it will be firmly established, a prescientity I believe is an underestimated quality of the Icelandic economy and so usually. Only about 50 million. In fact, there are 400 million people. K. Which is even smaller, so there is not much to trade. If we look at the current arrangement, we can go up to 100 million. Well, we'll just see that the few big ones that are owned by money-rich parties are likely to be safe to say, take too much to themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u55	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Andri Thorsson's divinity for the answer. I kind of agree with him in many ways. I think what he's trying to do is much better than what's supposed to go through. I agree with him on that. What I would like to know is, would he not agree that somehow, after a year and a half, a year or two, it will have to be scaled how this works? What I'm worried about is how the state's strengthening is affecting the news. Does it affect the person's thinking twice about criticizing the government at any given time, feeling that even if there is little food, the finger grips of those who are feeding them? Then I'm also worried about this amount because it's a lot of little media. I agree to find a way to strengthen them. But what does he say about VOLV e.g.? Does he think it's natural that RUSH should be totally off the market and that we should have taken him away, that they would just have to adapt themselves outside the advertising market? I have no doubt they'll be fine. Then they would be just focusing on what they are good at. In fact, they should let go of this American entertainment and other things except focus on Icelandic and other such good news media and let others around the entertainment industry. Even the fact that we're supposed to concentrate on going into action with these giants like Netflix and Viagra and taxing them. We're just supposed to focus on that. I feel like we're starting at the wrong end somehow.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u56	A respectable president. I love to hear it. A senator has such a positive view of this change in scheme and is holding to my side. It's kind of my job to get in my business the rest of the council, and I hope that our new proposal will be accepted. Yes, it has to be plotted, like a sledgehammer. A senator says, after maybe two years or over this and see what has given up and what has given up. I'm sure that's what you're doing. I feel that this is part of a fund that is viable and that works according to its goals. I'm not afraid that funding will come from government funds, tax money, and the media will be unnecessary and unnecessaryly spared by local governments at one time. As I said before in my speech, being a media player is a particular subject, it's a matter of lifeliness to be a mediaman, to be a reporter. A reporter doubts everything, a reporter never believes any politicians, or should at least not do it, and a reporter always has to dig in all things himself. It's that kind of reporting, and that's the kind of media we want to strengthen because the public needs such media. I have four seconds left, three, two, one. I just can't answer that. That's a question too big. There is a particular subject for each of these advertising revenues to run, along the streets, and how it would affect the Kingdom News as well. [[The president calls.]] There's another discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u57	Mr. President. Me and what. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir written under the opinion of most of the General and Education Committee in advance and I intend to explain our views here in a brief speech. First, I'd like to say that we support the case, and we feel very strongly that private media are being supported by the state. We think it's important for the community talk. It strengthens democracy. Having diverse and powerful fables in the media, we simply feel that we are for the good of the community. We feel that this bill is important, but we have to admit, as it so often is, that if we had been given a single movement, it might have looked a little different. But I believe, in other words, that the objective here is important. First, I'd like to say, because this is a suggestion that the operation will be temporary, that I think the private media will need support for a longer time than this is assumed. However, since this is the case, I feel that it is important that time will be used to review the experience of the arrangement and after events change and precisely improve the objective of supporting a wide range of media fleas. There are a number of factors listed in the Committee's list of aspects, such as the need to ensure that the arrangement will have a positive impact on the diversity and diversity of the media market. Likewise, we need to keep in mind the position of the smaller media in this context, and I feel that it is important to see if and how it would be possible to make further contact with the local media, which may be extremely important in different parts of the country. It is also mentioned whether it might be considered to set up a competitive fund to balance the management and competitiveness of the media. These are all things that I find important to be examined as soon as there is experience with the bill suggested here and after the events made changes in order to achieve these views further. And I'd also like to mention that one of the things not mentioned here, but I also think it's a good idea to look at is to set up a fund for research. I think that might also strengthen the media in Iceland. Nevertheless, to say and to convey these views, I feel that it is important to turn this bill into a law. It will then be necessary to consider the taxation of the groups and discuss the issues in this large context, but, as I say, then use the time during this bill to cover the arrangement and change and improve. Experience shows that it is needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u58	A respectable president. We're still talking about support to state drivers and private media. Hv. paritaprevir Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir said that it would be good for these media to receive this support. Then I would like to ask: In what way does she feel it is good for all these media to receive this support? Because, according to the bill as it is stated, the largest part will go to the biggest media they are the highest, with the slightest need for this in themselves. As a result, it will be much less for the little ones who really need this if we are paying attention to who and who will not. Then I believe that when the granting of funding, there is a greater chance that these tiny, unique media will surrender than ever. That's why I'm asking: A senator does not view the minority as a dog. Senators Andri Thorsson and Olga Margrét Cilia are involved, however, are they at least trying to reduce it so that they will be replaced with little - better to achieve at least the goal of strengthening those who need it and, therefore, escape the efforts of those media that are driven by wealthy people who have enough money to make their way in and put their affairs in place without getting something of government income and getting into state beds to promote their affairs?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u59	Mr. President. This was discussed extensively in the management of a global and educational committee, and there were a number of views. Among other things, it was noted that the position of those who may be called large or larger media is and has been very difficult in recent years and has deteriorated, so there is one view. However, I think that the project needs to be done very carefully whether it needs to be met more closely with the media and, as mentioned in my introduction, I think that local mediums that are being published are needed to form local newscasts. You need to look to the experience of this bill when considering the subject. It's something that's been discussed, and I think we just need to keep looking.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u60	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. At the same time, I'd like to hear her opinion on VOLV. Does she not believe that it would have been right to start with them at the end of a commercial market, to see just to improve the competition? It tells itself it's gonna be a bit of a piece of butt. They are trying to make up for certain media sources that are fighting the giant in the marketing market. They're starting on the wrong end. Would it not have been better to start with them simply to take RUS out of a commercial market so that at least we would be in the position of the commercial competition? That would probably right away improve the situation of these little media. The other thing, of course, we have to deal with, and there are foreign media, that their tax environment is similar to that of those who are fighting them here in Iceland. Then there's the other thing: I believe that, like this bill is put up, we're not doing what we were going to do. I think somehow we're running blind into the ocean and we're just gonna take a chance. Yeah, yeah, that's 400 million. 400 million is a lot of money, and I'm sure these 400 million are needed in far better matters than this. I'll make it clear that there are a lot of things that would be ready to get 400 million and could do much better with the money than ever to put them in that pit that's there. We're going to do this, so I say: We'd have to think about all this better before we left.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u61	Mr. President. I think this money is very well spent and that it is relevant to society as a whole because powerful media involved in issues that are relevant to society and that have careful editors and careful news coverage promote society. So I think this money is very well spent, and I also think it's starting at a very accurate beginning by strengthening the private media. I think RUV status at the advertising market, i.e. taking an ad market, will not automatically lead to the extra media revenues. It has been observed that when the national parts of the country closed down, RUS did not do advertising for the local printing media as a result. So I just don't think there's anything to be done about it, and that's why it's so important that we're sponsoring the private media, and then we're looking at taxing the foreign companies because it's the ones who are sucking up the money. No media in Iceland would be improved if the funds that now flow to the RUS would leave the country in foreign territories.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u62	A respectable president. We're here on bill to legalize the media law, support for the private media. It has been observed that the government and its leaders feel that it is a good thing to spend 400 million in the media. Perhaps the most amazing thing about it is that most of these funds should be protected by a special media that does not need support at all because they are driven by big - estate workers who have enough money to run their media on the ground they do today and who do not need support. Unfortunately, in that sense, I am basically speechless so that we should be in the position of starting backwards. We're just starting on the wrong end. If we were going to start right, we would have, for example, been going right. You will start taking in foreign companies and taxing them, Netflix, Viaplay, and these hosts. That's where we should've started. Then, too, we were to start with what private media and others have been asking for, to take the RuV out of a commercial market. But no, we didn't start on either end. We started at the other end, going to a government fund and making private media money dependent on the state funds, and putting it kind of in a little bit next to the RUS. How stupid can that be? They're talking about this being a Covid thing. If we were really talking about the Covid case, we'd be talking about other things. We'd be talking about the consequences of Covid, we'd be talking about funding for dealing with the illness and the consequences of Covid. It would be closer for us to take these 400 million and put them there than to put them in an effort to improve the position of the needed media, for example. This is not to be used. I can see that the problems of the little media need to be addressed. It claims that their environment in today's state has been extremely complex. It tells itself that there are, of course, some options for those whom the government has placed in the Covid case. But that we're putting these media on the Kingdom Hall with VOLV is something that's wrong, and somehow it's not sound thinking behind it. I just can't get this method. If we take an advertising market, which was the first step, it would immediately improve the position of the little media. Someone has to go to advertising. At the same time, of course, we would have to grapple with the foreign media. It should not be a problem if we take it at the same time. I also think that the position of the media we're now trying to put on the state bed would be much better and they wouldn't have to go that way. I believe that those who have established the private media have not founded them to end up as a part of a state-wide treasurance and depend on it. There's something else that's happened here that's a little strange. It's temporary resources, but somehow I have a feeling it's gonna be progressive and it's gonna stay. Somehow it is that once we've made a law and once put something on the budget, it seems very difficult to stop it and take it back. I think it'll be a little difficult to keep. We are talking about news and news - related material that is designed to strengthen. Then there is a question: What is news and news about? We can also ask ourselves that question. Is that just news we see? What about e.g. A station that may not have an ordinary news lesson, but a sports news lesson? Does it feel that it is newsable and that it can get strength or that it is excluded because it is only about sports? Or someone who only deals with art, art news? Where's the difference? I don't think this bill is kind of a mess, and it wasn't supposed to end. I just have to say, the more I look at it, the more I'm against it. I think if we did something intelligent, the bill would be pulled back and we'd start at the right end. We'd start with, as I've said before, taking on foreign companies, taking the RuV out of advertising markets, putting things in the environment that will then be a healthy environment, and then we can start looking at what the little news channels in the country need. We must realize that the environment is changing and that it is changing very quickly. I can only see how I want my news or news related information. I want it in magazine form, I find it more comfortable to read it that way, but I see that my children never read any news of it in that form but on the Internet alone. The changes are coming to an end, so the next step may be the dangers of the magazine edition. That's why this environment is changing so fast. I believe that by having this government scholarship for the media, we have the most fears that most of the 400 million will go to those who need it, and that the most people need it, they will have little or nothing to do with them. As a result, the purpose of this bill, which may have been good at first, is completely broken and does not return what was to be achieved.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u63	A respectable president. It is unusual for the state to go in with tax dollars to support private business, no matter what it is, whether it is in the media or something else. For this reason, the answer may come to the speculations that have caused some people. Congress on why the sunset rules are in this bill. I suppose, from my perspective, and from my point of view, primarily to send out a clear message that direct energy from the state fund to a special company is not self-centered and that it is not come to be, but is here to answer a certain intervening situation that I intend to take a few words about. I think, without a doubt, it can be said that the operating point of Iceland's special media has not been worse since the state's photon operation or the State's monopoly on the optics has been removed. The bigger news media, which I'd rather come to, which, if we're going to call it an unhandful name, they're making the most of it on the news. Current news services, as we know them, are now few people left in private business, perhaps three people who say they're all fired with much losses, more losses than we've known before, for years and years. There are a number of factors that have caused the situation of the unique media to get worse, depending on the sector of the media. We can say that the appearance of the larger groups, such as Netflix, Viapplay, and other such activities has resulted in the release of a subscription TV such as we knew it best at the top of Station 2 and a very large part of Icelandic homes were subscribed to that station. The appearance of these stations, the international companies selling their materials very cheap in the way that many people buy the world over, has, in fact, eliminated the sale of subscription TVs, especially recreation programs, all over the world, including Iceland. Since then we have a post on the market that we can so grossly estimate - this is not done with great precision, it is rather a approach - that the object of international community media at the Icelandic commercial market, i.e. Advertisements intended for publication in Iceland for Icelandic markets may be up in and over 20%. There is a share similar to that of the State Radio in the Icelandic advertising market. The foreign sources pay no taxes in Iceland, and they have no responsibilities, and of course they flaunt the highly competitive position of the local media. We have the situation that from the total advertising market in Iceland, countries are exported by 20% and the state itself by another 20%. A peak of 60% of the Icelandic advertising market remains to be replaced by the Icelandic private media. Of course, this competitive attitude is so crooked that it will not be a pleasure. This was shown in the case of a man. paritaprevir Guðmundur of Thorsson Thorson earlier, quoting to what appeared in the council the other day, working on the taxation of these sources in the European field - in fact, it is also being done in the Norse field - and there is likely some evidence to be expected of this year. This gives us a part of the answer to why we make time for the law and why we set sunset rules. If we look at these two things that I listed as a competitive position at the Icelandic market, the tax-free environment of foreign media and then the traffic at the State Radio on the market, and now we're comparing the figures on the bill with 400 million to the exchanges for private media, the state has about 2,000 million advertising dollars on this market, and if it's the right plan for some of the guests who have been approaching this figure, we can expect another 2,000 million people to go to foreign society, tax-free in Iceland, and there are 4 billion people who have access to it if we can't. That's ten times the amount we're offering to help with the private media. It is in these situations that you can agree to take action like this. These are temporary measures that take into account differences and if we look to foreign sources in terms of tax discrimination on this market for the private media. That's what's in my mind justifying this kind of intervention, temporarily while this post is being resolved on the market. I just wanted to step in to what may be the main issue in changing the memory of the part as well. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson made up the subject of the past. I may have explained, at least From my point of view, what is the reason for having the sunset rules in the bill? Then there's the question about the little, big media. There are, however, these limits, this roof saying that no single medium should be given in its share, regardless of size, more than 25% of the total amount required for distribution. Admittedly, then, we can say that no one can get more than 100 million of the 400 that is expected to come for distribution. The importance of the media is not inversely correlated with their size, that's what I wanted to come to. To me, there is nothing on the basis of this bill, in the situation we're responding to with it, which should, in fact, be more inclined to strengthen the little media than the big ones. The larger media are far worse off from the market situation I just described here than the little because they have more subscription teas, such as what Stab two built their lives on, and is now more and less missing by the larger groups, and then the advertising revenues that are starting to flow into these foreign sources on the other hand and the State TV that has been for a long time. The small websites that are being referred to here have a majority of their income in a way that is different from the one I was describing. Then we must also make a distinction between the nature of these mediators. We have these so - called large media, which, of course, are dwarfs in all international comparisons, Europeans, and even Norwegians. The media I was referring to earlier, and maybe there are three of them left in private business, are in this evil concept that I mentioned first production on the news. These are the main media channels that run on Icelandic standards to make large editors who are in the process of obtaining news on a daily basis and sharing it with the public. And then we have the soots of the media, which are often referred to as these little media, which some of which have spoken, may be understood to get even more than the big ones. To this end, there is simply no argument, not only in general, that little is better than great, that small is beautiful, or something like that. This is not where the important thing is. The importance depends on the fact that here are some media that are hot enough to run independent news offices and produce, if it can be called, write, make news from the ground, and have this, I don't want to say everything that's going around, general news service while the little media, sometimes referred to, are not in the sector of media. They are more involved in sharing news reports, and they often have excellent news explanations. There is a physical difference between a medium that exploits and distributes other media sources and then throws them out, attacks fine and essential news items, and does not replace current newsism. Today, only three such public news agencies may be based on personal employment. In other words, there is nothing to say that in this operation it is more important to consider strengthening the small media than the ones I mention as the main media, which all have in common to be fired now and that for a long time, they have been fired with an eroding loss. This discussion presented the view that these main media are driven by rich people who have deep pockets to run them. Well, I guess that's just not right. I doubt that there are rich men in Iceland who have the patience to run e.g. An enterprise that goes the long way to losing a million dollars a day, maybe 300 to400 million. K. In a year - that is, they are doing what the situation is right now - I think this kind of granting should not be determined by how the media possessive measures but by the general view that temporary action is justified in considering that two kinds of situations on this market, both towards the size and the passage of the state, and then by the tax-free foreign companies, the competitiveness of the media in the sense that temporary action is justified while paying from two kinds of situations at this market.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u64	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a fine talk I had in mind, and there were some disagreements. I don't share that opinion. A senator says he's right to have this time tie, this sunset plan. I think it's important for these media to have a vision in their operation whenever possible. True, we are currently living in an unusual period of time at Covid times, and there certainly is a very unusual environment in which there is international giant, chemical, and social media functions. I hope it's temporary, but I'm quite convinced that there are other challenges to them. I don't agree with the vision that seemed to be in my case. A senator, i.e. that he would like to associate it with a plan to take the State Radio off the media market, which I believe may be more complex. Hv. A senator turned aside the adjustment of the memory of the part about the 50 million roofs we want to put on. That may not be the main idea. Of course, it's fine, but it's not just a matter of small and large, but I think that we're working there in the spirit of the 2011 law on the media that highlights diversity and emphasizes that it is the role of the State to promote diversity. [[The president calls.]] First and foremost, the smaller portion of it is to try to help increase the strength needed to make more flowers grow. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u65	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question and for the question. I'll just get right into the question or this perspective on diversity. I agree with the fundamental point of promoting the diversity of Iceland's media. I do not think, however, that this is best done by diluting it out in such a way that the sums down and downs as well as the number and number of the recipient. Then I think it's better to take action that's important to the media. This is not to say that I despise the smaller ones, as well as that the rules apply to the distribution of the smaller to the larger things, much larger things, of their operating costs - if we take e.g. The Internet services listed above may contain a six - month edition of printed paper, their operating costs consisting of a relative proportionately more sustained pay than those larger with cost of operating and binding in printeries, and a number of other things that are not considered when deciding whether they are strong or not. The bill as it stands means that the roof is 25%. That would probably be worth a buck about. 100 million. At least, the roof is somewhere in there because no one must take more than 25% of the total. In the minority proposal, this roof will be 50 million, not 100, but 50 million. I don't think that for these large media services, 50 million people are really no real people, but 100 million are a big deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u66	A respectable president. I know why. A senator would not say that some of the media were important, and others were irrelevant. That wasn't his intention. But I still feel like I'm an expert on the matter. A senator - he speaks of primary production on the news page, I know that this is the government of the early manufacturing articles, but it can now be taken all to extremes, and in the other hand, there is research and news explanation and so forth. I don't completely agree with this assessment. I believe the internet servers, that's what they're talking about. A senator calls it, plays a very important role in democracies, and was very relevant to information to the public. I think more media is also important there, local media and local media, and so forth, which is important to support as well. If we turn to the current bill in the current picture, we may be talking about the exchange of 100 million for the smaller media, the big media changing between 300 million and 100 million for the little media. I think if we'd covered 50 million - this isn't much of the money we have in the first place, but I think it could make a difference for the little media to have some money. But I think for the large media it may not have made a difference, certainly it will be important, but it may not be a big deal for business survival, as is the case with the smaller media. Again and again I remind you that this is where the lawgiver has a role to promote diversity.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u67	A respectable president. I think it's a matter of opinion between us. paritaprevir The divinities of Andri son of Thorsson are in some respects lost, and there is no reason to say any further. Hv. A senator probably believes that this interstate should lie somewhere else than on the bill. That's the middle of the road, though. I'd guess, without having calculated it or that I have it somewhere in front of me--when the last time it came for distribution, there was one media company running up to the 25% roof and I think it's more like two now, possibly three, but probably two. I believe that this is about to be an interaction, on the other hand, doing something that matters - I'm not really going to use that word again, it's so ugly - this primal product, this main media media, if we can call it that, which is, in fact, an extensive press coverage and the smaller ones with their focus elsewhere where costs and human resources may be considerably less than the main media.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u68	President. Support larger than smaller, whether the media are main currents, etc. This is very interesting in view of what we have seen in recent years, i.e. how political investors have participated in the operation of the larger media. Actually, they've picked up their credit card when they're in a lot of middle media and they fill up the hole. That means that the strength the General decides to give this media, up to 100 million by the end of the past few years, is not to support any reporting activity, it is simply to strengthen the investors who do not have to pay as much, put as much on the map as they would need. If we were to focus more on the smaller tickets, in the environment of strengthening the media, it would simply be about making more news. There'd be no more news, better news, or something like that in the larger tickets. It would just be shoveling into a hole that investors would not have to shovel as much into. So I ask. A member of Parliament: In view of his appeal, how is it successful to strengthen the news transfer of larger media, considering how their birthday has been in recent years, and how has it been reacted to by investors?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u69	A respectable president. It's fine to come in. But I'd like to say right away that I haven't spoken up that it should be more powerful than smaller. I have said, however, that they should be strengthened like smaller ones so that they adhere to the same rules. But I'm ready, as we were in the majority of the Committee and Committee, to put this roof, this 25% roof. When it is said that it is to strengthen the investors instead of the news, it would be extremely dangerous to think that this would be enough for the mediums mentioned when compared and would have more than proportional if the limit had been dropped, like the dog. paritaprevir And the Björn of Gunnarsson called for an independent report, namely, I've never heard of their speaking of their future plans or ambitions lying there, much more in doing more of what they're doing. We have an example of one of the big, rich media companies - in the sense of just being big, not in the sense of suffering a nonsense loss - making a decision this winter to lock up the news of Stopr 2. It's the next number to stop running the newsroom. And I don't think there's any indication that these large parties run these three big media companies, all fired with about A million dollars a day, whether or not to want to continue the business. We're hoping that, and that's why me and my squad can agree on this temporarily, that two types of reviews and changes that will hopefully follow this review, both in the foreign countries and in the State's passage on this market, change the environment so that it doesn't have to come to a direct state of that kind. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u70	President. I think it's very clear in this bill that we're not about to be able to support this main event as a dog. A senator talks about it. As the situation today is, considering the amount we're talking about, it's simply shoveling into this hole I talked about earlier, making it necessary for the investors not to meet the loss of the business, in effect, in this really unsuspectable business. It's not just the news transfer that costs a fortune, it's other things these media do, which also costs and the exchange of where the losses are completely hidden from us. So we can't talk too much about where such support really comes in. If this is just the strength of news transfer, we really have no idea whether it will be successful or not and not the total amount given to the quality of the media in recent years. In the total recovery, we simply are not strengthening the main event, since we are simply putting into the hole that already exists. If the goal was to strengthen the country's news transfer, not necessarily a major news transfer, but a general view, we would be more likely to strengthen the smaller parties. Then perhaps it would be nice to have a government who would like to bring something that she has not been able to do for four years, a suggestion to change the environment so that a major news transfer is a basis for management. It hasn't happened.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u71	A respectable president. It might be unstable to try to figure out exactly where this loss of the private media is from. We've covered all the main lines of the history of people other than these private-relevant enterprises we're talking about here on this market, at least 40% of the Icelandic advertising market is increasing. There are two extreme unfair competitions, the foreign tax - free, irresponsible media that have more than 20% of the market, and then the State itself is on the market. This is now being revised, and hopefully it will release quite a lot of money. As I told you earlier, the object of this two parties at the Icelandic commercial market may be near 4 billion somewhere, ten times the amount we are deciding to spend temporarily for this assistance while the environment in other ways is being revised.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u72	A respectable president. This matter may be illustrated in a rough way, at least. From my point of view, that it is being endeavored to correct one mistake with another as bad or as bad. This is an effort to improve the position of the individual media in a fierce competition with the media, the media, in the same position as the RuV. During the past few years, there has been a number of problems with the government when it comes to private media in the country. Obviously, people have, and it's a positive thing, recognized that the media in Iceland is under attack. The requirements for the media are difficult here. There are a number of reasons besides the few of us in a fine country. Of course, this is especially because of competition by the Kingdom media. In 2016 a committee was set up to identify this position, although it has been in the past for years and decades. This committee took two years to obtain a report, the results of that analysis. It took two years for a committee to give their opinion on the work environment. What may be faced as well when we read that report is that we have different eyes on the competitiveness of the media. This bill has been introduced in the past. This bill does not indicate that another bill has been submitted, but during this terms, at least You are presented here by your highest bill. Secretary of education, similar material. But there has been no forward or no progress due to a conflict of emphasis on these matters. So the situation here is some sort of application. It is true, too, that before winter, certain so-called Covid concentrations were adopted to extraordinary media media, temporary for the last year, to meet their financial needs, probably with the same objective as this bill, but they had a name Covid, despite the fact that the media may rarely have had a better chance of earning money than in this case of Covid age when the use of the media was as large as possible. It may rarely have been more than just in the past year. This bill is remarkable in view of what I have previously mentioned about the competitiveness of private media against the RUS. The bill itself does not contain a single word of the Kingdom broadcast. There is no mention of the ROV or competitiveness of the individual media with regard to the RuV. Let it be, because we have entered Congress and it is the case in 2nd. Here at the council, a committee of the members of the committee views, that in the leading party of the greater section, there is also no mention of a single word on RUS. The bill says that the goal is to meet the private media to match the state of the Icelandic media with foreign advertising and community media. A respectable president. Of course, this would be funny if it were not completely tragic that the bill of this theme does not mention the only word facing all, and it is the unjustly competitive position of the individual media to the media. That's where the competition lies. The inconsistencies of the state - driven media are not with foreign advertising and community media, although I agree entirely with what has been presented in the Committee and in the discussions on this matter that, of course, there is a special project for the state's funds, to balance the status of taxpayers, to look for ways to taxpayers, to tax the commercial advertising of foreign agencies in this country as it is done with the Icelandic media. There is, of course, something else that is not fair. I'm not going to go into a lot of technical matters, as many people have done here during the discussion. It would be unsatisfactory to consider whether to pay the cost of metabolic costs rather than photographers or reporters or technicians. Of course, the technical matters involved in this discussion are because the matter is faulty. The matter is defective in nature. When it comes to granting Kingdom strength, depending on these conditions, the endless nonsense does not end by listing all the conditions that humans would expect in this regard. Metabolites are added to members of the committee's section from which they live. General and Education Committee. They felt that there was reason to add metabolics to a list of cost-effective populations. You can think of just right away: What about broadcasters or technicians or stage photographers who are setting up for cameras during telecommunications? It is possible to think of a number of other financial groups that are not even yet there, in mediums that have not yet been observed. So I'm not going through this. However, I regret that the main differences in this case here at the General Assembly seem to be about the calculation and peak of the sector support that is expected in the bill to be at a maximum of 25% of the supporting cost of business. This requires reasoning on the supportive cost of operating, and so on. However, it cannot be higher than 25% of the budget. It's just going into this a little bit unstable. On the other hand, it seems that the lines were somehow divided so that those who lean to the right in politics want to ensure that the large media, the civilized media, could call it, the Morning and the News newspaper, do not carry a cut - off object, but that those who lean to the left want to make sure that the other media are different, the Web sites of another kind, which do not take as much news as the big media, do not carry a sharp object from the table. This is the discussion. A respectable president. I would wish that men could only get out of the pits and discuss what is truly important: Do people like to put private media in the state of the earth and finance them for a future time in this way? In fact, the answer is available, at least of the memory of parts of the General and Education Committee and the billaries who give no notice of the duration of the case. They actually suggest that the so - called fourth power - and it's not a thought I've made about the media. Rather, the media themselves want to use the word that reveals itself to them - be the state's drive and depend on every year to make a petition here to the General, to the fundacies, on operating expenses, and on strength. I didn't mean to go to this technical process. I just want to point out that, also for those who want to do some technical deportation and wonder who to get this strength and who not, that man is looking at the media environment as he is today. Then it may not be out of the question that the same people have a little thought as to the effect of such terms of Congress and such legalization and such government strength on the media that are present today in the media may have a potential for new media. Here, for example. has been defined as having had to work for 12 months. It is not even enough that you have been working for 12 months but that you have been working for 12 months under some special supervision and announcements and registrations from a state - of - state press committee that holds a record of the media and gives mediums the best permission to persuade you to the media. What effect does Kingdom power have on the potential entrance into new parties on the market? I can answer that, Mr. Honorable President. He has the same effect as competitive competition and competitiveness in all other areas of human life; in the public business of the grocery store, in the state business of liquor stores, in the business of government on airlines, in civilian business on farms, in shipping companies. He limits private access and reduces market competition. That's the effects the government has, and the government's grants. The injustices faced by the private media today need to be corrected. I agree perfectly with those who have pointed out the need to be corrected. This is an injustice to the common people, who are now obliged to give thousands of millions of dollars to a Kingdom publisher on many channels, on audio, on television, on community media, and on the Internet, thousands of millions each year. These thousands of millions then use the national media to attract advertising as private mediums who compete with the state media would have had at least an increase. Any hope of being a part of it would not be so aggressive. This injustice has to be corrected and that forced donations have to be reduced to RUS. But here we are adding to the injustice, it's just getting better. I pay attention to it, and I call special media, begging them to wonder if it serves their real interests in the long run. Do they serve the real interests of the media? The so - called fourth power is not to be subject to the State, should not have to be brought here in the Senate Hall every year. It is thought - provoking for all these media, for the private media, and for consumers the news and media, the public in the country and the taxpayers, whether these media will provide real protection for the government at the same time as they intend to feed the state.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u73	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. I think I can share her speech in the vast majority, if not all the cases. This was very good and needed to be discussed in this discussion. Actually, Mr. President, I've missed no more talks on this subject. I've felt like a pack of dogs. The senator somehow planned to do this until now, and I am grateful that the senator will come up and give this fine talk. I wonder, though, what happens to the situation, and if it is simply so that the independent party has concluded that it goes through here, a reasonable number of people can deliver such fine talks as the dog. A senator, but the case will still be accepted. We'll see. It has now been shown that the thought is temporary, i.e. that the power, or the temporary application of private media, is temporary. I ask the senator, " What are the chances of this being a temporary arrangement? ' What are the chances of it being taken off again? I couldn't help overhearing that the president of the General and Education Committee mentioned earlier was a temporary arrangement. If that is the case, what are the chances of it being taken off? Are we looking forward to a recording of some other system that also aims to keep from cutting hair at the head, if that's the way it can be said, Kingdom broadcaster? It's obviously the problem, maybe not the only problem, of course, of course the foreign companies are also a problem, but the biggest problem in Iceland with private media is this national radio that has almost unregistered access to funds, even gets to pay back losses, like last year, 200 million I think. I'm asking why. A member of the Parliament: Are there any chance that after putting these strengths on them, they can be removed?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u74	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for the counterargument and a good question about forethought or the end of this matter. No, I don't think it's a great chance that this kind of strength, as it is before, and as the opinion of the committee gives a reason to believe, someday it will be dropped. During my review, I did not review these technical factors, but I draw attention to the fact that the bill itself refers to a distribution committee. In fact, it was funny to me that in this article it simply stated that she does not need an explanation, but I would have done very well that the operations of a distribution committee here were explained only. This is a distribution committee appointed three men designated by Government Accounting. I don't know what a government accountant would say about being assigned to appoint a distribution committee from the state box. Except, here's a distribution committee arranged. Then there's a long, thick article I can hear at the moment. Councilmen have been arguing about, i.e. The distribution route itself. I would have thought that a greater part of the General and Education Committee would have been suitable, in view of the fact that it is temporarily suggesting that this is precisely done by a new committee, a distribution committee, which I thought was merely a build-up of this bill in itself, a system structure because the bill itself is creating a new system, a new committee, a distribution committee, which I thought even the forward group was built up from 2021. And so I say again briefly: No, I don't think there's a great chance that a system like this will be removed soon.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u75	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the answer. It is very important to bear in mind that when members of the Parliament begin to vote on the matter, the chances are that this arrangement is all there to be, that we are leading here into a law of some arrangement where private media, at least those who exist today - they may not even increase the amount of time in the light of the arrangement. Like what? In his speech a senator rightly pointed out the need for the media to have existed for at least 12 months I'm told that I can go under this strengthening system. There is no chance that this will be removed when the time is seen expires. On the contrary, it is likely to be established. And worse, Mr. President, based on the discussion that has taken place here in the Senate Hall, in view of the changes we have seen and the points of the committee that have been seen, any chance that if there was a left control, it would be by changing the rules give extra money to the left - handed media, and if it were here an absolute right control, it would lead in the opposite direction. Some bastard is being created that will make the media in the years to come totally dependent on the government. I'm gonna let myself say it: absolutely, all the media in Iceland, not just the state's run. Then you wonder: " Is there any solution to this matter? Yes, it has been suggested that e.g. can be allowed to choose whether to pay this so - called radio fee or to name it to other media. It is also possible to wonder if people are so excited to continue some form of Kingdom broadcast. I'll tell you, I'm against it. I think the State Radio should be turned off in the picture it is today. We may have some kind of cultural radio, channel 1, or something like that, but we may not be going along that way. A senator says, the whole media. The government radio, if you want some sort of battery called it, can only be on the budget and take the plaque that needs to be taken, added when possible, etc. I would like to ask a conquistador: Does she see any solution to this situation but perhaps just shut down this Kingdom Radio?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u76	A respectable president. I just have to admit that I have to break a council and celebrate and agree. A senator in answer, such as he himself did in his answer. I'm just saying, when it's in place, it's gonna be another political bite in the future. The answer is, of course, that once when it comes to media and government business with the state TV, people do what they want to do and say they want to do what they want to do, they put their heads under and are now shouldering their responsibility in politics, making decisions, and setting out for the future. I was very disappointed that at a new service contract, I was greatly disappointed. Education Minister signed RU - signed a service contract with a state agency, the highest. The Minister of Education is prepared to sign a service contract and negotiate with RUS for a donation which, of course, is a negative consequence of this ohf. industry that has been involved in the whole of the past few years. But let's face it, I was very disappointed with that service contract, and that it was not only in this business, trying to determine better the role of VOLV. If they're going to continue to have RUSV - and I'll admit that even if I agree with them. I realize that it is not a political reality and reality to do so at once, at least at least. ... Idon'tknow. However, this activity can, in any case, be reduced, improve policy, explain the highly targeted role of RUS, and thus do not promote the use of private media. It's only necessary to do so. This bill does not, nor does it serve the interests of any individual media.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u77	A respectable president. In 1st. I discussed that the position of the individual media was clear to all of us. Of course, she has been for a long time. I reasoned that the importance of the media for society is also clear to all of us and that in that light, lateness is the highest. Secretary of education in this matter is both tragic and serious. I think it's possible to say that the media status is a reflection of the democracy's position in each community. I have to say, after not only this bill, but this situation has been discussed in Icelandic society for years, I find the conclusion of this case and the opinion of a greater part of the General and Education Committee an incredible disappointment. I believe that it is in these fundamental issues that the government's weakness will be so tangible and awkward, a government designed on the width, from the left to the right. In some way, it often has an effect that in situations where basic factors are tested, the result often becomes that way, somehow nothing. There's no movement here, there's no change here, and here's little or no improvement. The goal of the bill is important, and that's good. The environment of the environment of the media is in a way that needs attention and attention. I support that goal, but when it is done, it is of course important to discuss what is responsible for this particular situation in the media of the country. Why is the environment so heavy? Wouldn't it be a normal start in both the conversation and in the actions that are then proposed by the legislazoner, to review the reasons and to deal with the factors that will influence the situation in that direction and in the sense that the situation of the individual media is the way we know it? It seems that this government cannot. It cannot establish a common conclusion as to whether or to what extent VOLV should be at a commercial market. Therefore, there is no discussion on that point. Nor can this government have a bearing on the fact that foreign giants or foreign groups take on great things, do not pay in this country, pay taxes, but are large on the market. They're not being treated. They're not part of the bill. This bill will provide primarily, at the end of the time of this strength, to maintain this difficult, heavy environment of the individual media. According to the bill, the goal is to promote the individual media, to enable them to do their part in modern democracies. The State's cost of change, which is presented as temporary, and in fact nothing like what we've done with various other Covid measures, will be up to 400 billion this time. However, because there is no discussion of these key factors that affect the status of the servers, a foreign network that absorbs capital and then the highest position of the RUS, a section of the council seems unable to have thought of long - term support for the media. This way, by not going into the variables that have led to the fact that the Icelandic media position is in the way it is, they want naturally, I mean, don't go in the long way to put money in the media in this way. That is why a bill will be left to offer strength until the end of the year 2022. After all this coverage, both in the community and in the hall, this is a result of a single intervention. Then, of course, there is a human view, whether it will be tried or whether it will be extended in this. I now believe there are many in this room, especially those in the council, who, if it does, will support the situation in this situation just because it is a single intervention, that is. Because it's not a laughingstock in any of the important things. I allow me to assert that the political objective and the political conversation were about something more than this. It was about creating a promising situation here for a private medium in order to survive, to thrive, and to thrive. Of course, the situation is that RUSH is in a high position, in the position of both financial contributions and making a lot of money from a commercial market. That situation is not new. It is my clear opinion that the careful masseuse of the country is of the good. This does not mean agreeing to the rules of practice that private media skills should be subject to difficulty automatically. The wealthy medium and private drivers should be able to live on market together, even directly and indirectly support one another with their common existence. Therefore, it was not only natural but both aspects of this matter, not just to put this patch on, not just to bring up a case that is here at least Acting as a single - change operation, it is a matter of putting political solutions on the table. We are well able to create the basis for working together as a team of Kingdom drivers and personal instructors. I think there's a very small hold in the words of the highest. A minister of education who regularly declares it in this room or in the media that she wants to see certain changes, that it supports certain changes, that it has certain opinions and ideas. She's not putting them up here in this matter and has not made all her seminars in the media. She has done nothing but make regular declarations about her position on how things should be done. This issue does not address any important issues and has, in effect, influenced the reality of the situation in the United States. It would have been a challenge in this case to stand up for some form of ideologies and some position, whatever it might be, to have some vision of how we are going to do better in this regard. I believe that it is normal in today's environment to support the private media in the light of their basic role in a democracies community and with the aim of ensuring and strengthening a living and active national media cover. Of course, that need to be discussed. Being in favor of the fact that this can be done and done does not mean that anything can be written up on it and any other way in it. Here, too, I feel that it is important to look for ways that support can be of real help and that it will go to the means to which it needs to be used. In what form should this support be also? Would it be reasonable for support to be placed in a way that contributes to the cost or to something in the media' environment in a way other than direct payment? Of course, it should not be obvious or default that the government will destroy media companies, which, despite all of it, are in a private market, not default. It may, in itself, be a small plot in the Polish business of putting 400 million. K. a bandage on the media but cannot even attempt to create some guidelines that provide a more healthy and more reasonable or reasonable environment. I think it's special and it's a good idea to go the way the greater part is doing, proselytism party, forwarding party, and even left green, that more of the strength to go out to the biggest media in Iceland. I don't agree with what was presented. paritaprevir Sigríður Andersen that it is some right approach to strengthen the large media and left approach in the small media, rather, that it is a matter of public interest and special interest, why, first, of this process, is suggested by tailoring some of the frameworks around this, that the largest part goes to several large media sources. In this context, I would like to review, as is done in the Committee of the Isthmian Department, what the Contestance Commission's comments were on the bill. Of course, that matters because we are talking about a normal, healthy environment and a healthy environment for competition, but the League of Nations reminded us of the purpose of the media law itself; to promote diversity and diversity in the media. Of course, it is only at odds with the goal of putting out 400 million. K. a pot where the rules are pre-cut in such a way that most people get the most. It simply violates this goal. For this reason, I support a change of motion. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson has submitted, i.e. that in this environment and this time that we're taking care of this matter, this case will be strengthened, if it becomes law, more, and thus it will reach more parties on the market, but at the same time it's bound to be lower. So it serves a viewpoint that is in the interests of healthy competitiveness and that contributes to diversity. I don't think it's about doing that in the speech of a chairman of a man. The General Committee that the reasons behind are just that small companies are for some reason better than big. I think this is the focus of market diversity. Then I think that within the limits of which we are discussing here, there is some confidentiality and rationality that leads to a lack of support for the strongest. A respectable president. The role of the media, as I mentioned at the outset, is clear to all of us, and they have a fundamental role in democratic and cultural respect. There is good reason to be concerned about the status of the local media over their role. But again, this situation is not new. That's why this case is the highest. The minister of culture is so disappointed. It does not address any of the factors that have, in effect, contributed to the position of the individual media, many at least, in the way of experience. In effect, this situation does not change over the long term. When the majority of the committees are read, they scream at them, not discussing the important things, not going into the politics. Much is said about what needs to be considered. Certain views are addressed, but no steps are taken. The three government parties make what everyone knows, and they're going to take a step, but they're not going to take it. The majority of them consider it necessary to balance the status of national and international servers, but do not suggest any actions in the material, no actions that could balance the situation. The majority of the items have the need to improve the position of the unique server, but this time it makes them strong. There's nothing about RUV, as I mentioned earlier, and it's almost as if no senators of the greater part or as high level themselves. The minister realized that they are at the helm. They could present the council with some political ideologies on how the media environment in Iceland should look. I said before and again that I believe that the importance of the media is such that in some context and in some situation, support can be justified and that it will be done in the interests of the public interests that are behind the role of the media. The media are simply a factor in defending democracy, but the way they are done is important. And because nothing is to be done at the root of the problem, this matter is at best at the very best of half - truths and expensive patches. I think I'll just stay out of the matter. I'd like to mention, though, that it is quite open whatever is considered stable by this means, that may be with the will of this, but it is stated in the committee's list of parts that are so prominent in this language. It is said that the methodology needs to be clarified in calculating. They will discuss the need to ensure that the arrangement will produce a positive influence on diversity, even though it is clear that it will not. It is said that the position of the smaller media needs to be considered without doing so. It is said to consider setting up a competitive fund without doing so. It is said that this arrangement is best considered later, despite the fact that there is nothing more to it than this particular support system. So there is not even a matter of the idea of itself, which is put on the table, finding clear answers about how this will work and what is really meant to do. The result of a lot of work on this case is very, very small. This is a lack of political ideologies, and we need some political product in line with that ideologies. There's nothing about VOLV, there's nothing about a foreign task force. Support will be available in 2022 to 400 million, but the status of the Icelandic media will be at and after that, especially after him, the same. Thus, the media receive this temporary patch that the public pays for, but there is no special promise that after this period of time, the public will receive or follow a healthy media environment in the long run. In this and thereafter, the question may be: If we were to discuss these paths, would we be discussing this if a healthy, natural competitive environment had been created here? And then, of course, the question is, Is this a way to stay? At the end, I want to say that I am aware of the weight of the market and how important the role of the media is. I'm going to support the modification proposals of my share with reference to the views I traced, i.e. ... thediversity. To be honest, I'm not quite aware of what I'm going to do, but I can support myself, trust and shelter, that here is a temporary operation, and the situation is what it is, to support even this matter. But I'm just completely honest with it that I have the truth not quite made it up to me. I simply can't hide my disappointments with the unsatisfactoryness of the more part here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u78	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Þorbjörg of Sigríður, the Gunnlaugsdóttir of Guindal for a fine speech. This bill was missing, and it was not handled as necessary. I can totally agree with that. It also showed that the senator, along with other members of the previous talks, has no mention of RU in the bill and its special status in the media. Then I would like to ask the senator: " What would the senator see to be the most effective means of making peace in the community and in the media? We are, for example. talking about taking RUV out of a commercial market? How can we balance this situation? Some years ago -- these have been spoken of for years - they often talked about the security factor of RUS being so rich because when someone was in trouble with the transmission of RUS to be the security factor. So, now, other broadcasts have become much stronger. THOUGH it is not always possible, the question may not be addressed to the senator but, " What does the senator think would be the wise thing to do in the position to make some progress on the other side of the tunnel? '
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u79	A respectable president. In order to be told and repeated about what I mentioned in my speech, I firmly believe that the state media is entitled to do so, a media who is being thrown into public service, and that is exactly what has been the case. this safety role as a cognizant. A senator points in. But I don't think his importance is least hidden and bound in this rich contribution to his culture here on the land. Of course, the highest position is because there is a multicenter of budget, receiving government contributions, while competing for advertising. Both of these will lead to the trial of the hook. I believe in myself that it would be normal to look to see if RUSB is usually at a commercial market or if it should be limited in some way if the medium is fired in the way that he is. And I think, though I have an understanding of the point of view that appeared here in the hall earlier, that this alone will not lead to fundamental changes in the private media, that it must be a solution to the situation to see whether to limit the participation of the RU at a commercial market in some way or even take the step to the full.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u80	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I can't quite figure out how to limit access to advertising, but it can be possible. The state radio speciality is huge, including Because there are about 2 billion that they get out of a commercial market and then about 5 billion from the government. In order to be maintained, my feelings for State Radio are very warm, and the State Radio is very cultural in my mind and contains much learning from the past and all that. But there are only times and conditions that have changed, but only a few years ago. I think it's way too much jam, jap, and francing when we're talking about the problem we're having in the equal struggle of the media. I just want to let myself put it that way. Therefore, I actually repeat the question, What would the senator do best to do in the situation today? I noticed in the senator's speech that she spoke of the help that would somehow come, but not at all. Does the senator have any answer for me to give me a little lunch as to what she thinks was the most reasonable step in handling this? If the senator were a minister, could she give a good answer?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u81	A respectable president. The points in my speech were, in effect, that I believe that there is a somewhat accepted view that the Icelandic media status, the unique media media, is weak, on the one hand because of the state's attitude on the market and on the other hand because of what has been happening in the past years, and that is a problem that is growing, the situation produced by these foreign groups, i.e. that there are large members of the media market, people who pay at best, at best, limited fees, taxes here, and, of course, do not have international workers. As far as RUSH is concerned, the solution I mentioned is that of taking the whole area of a commercial market, and the rest of it is also effective, limiting it in some way. Of course, talking is the way it would be done. I think it's known that it can be done and, in this context, I think it might, for example. look to the state-running medium status in the North countries. But what I disagree with this issue is that it is not mentioned here why what the Icelandic media are in the condition in which they are in, and in turn, should go this way, should be put on a single - change operation for strength. And to be told, I believe that since the root of the problem is not tackled, I can have compassion in my view that this is the only way to go, even though I do not like it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u82	Mr. President. It's not the first time, and it's probably not the last time I'm coming here in the Generals' symposium and discussion about the media, the media market, and the uninterrupted game there. I did so even. in December 2018, when a comparable bill was submitted, many have done so before and since. Of course, the media have become very independent. That is most likely what we in this council hall can agree on. They will be ashamed and even worthless against the privileges that the legislator, the General, has provided to a stately firm in the media market. Added to this is international competition from corporations that suck not only advertising, advertising, but editors of a special media home. However, when the bill presented here is read and considered by the greater part of the General and Education Committee, it can be concluded that the understanding of those who assume that the bill is that the problem involved in the management of independent media lies in foreign corporations and their application into a commercial market here. It's just a small piece of history. And when half the story is told, and she's not even half told by it, there's so much missing into the picture that it may be no wonder that the conclusion will be in the way this is suggested. I'm going to ask the World of Congress to bear in mind that what is important to the media is not just competition in a commercial market but the fact that it is being sucked out of the editorial material that they place at work and costs for other media and especially foreign social services. If people mean anything by supporting their own media, they mean something by their being important to democracy, for an open discussion, the importance of holding up for us here, for the Commission, businesses, institutions, etc., people have to be able to actually balance the game. It is clear that the environment of the independent media here in Iceland will not be healthy until we deal with the state's activities in competitive business, have the opportunity to define the duties and roles of the state radio, if any people else want to run State Radio. Of course, I have certain doubts about it, especially in the 21st century, but I realize that this is not political support. Then the question is, why don't we try to balance the game and improve the environment of the independent media so that we don't have to create a complicated transfer system to keep them at the level of hunger, Mr. President? I'll admit, however, that I'm in a slightly more selective crisis. I am a matter of choice because there is no political support here, there is no greater part of the Generals for creating a healthy environment of the independent media and limiting the competitiveness of the state on this market as we should do at all other markets. That's why you wonder: Has it got so far up against the wall, close up against it, that the only option we have, we who believe it is necessary to strengthen and support the independent media, their diversity, is to accept here some kind of transfer system of government funds, like when people were here with towns making at the expense of municipal funds in the old days? I have put it this way, both in the public speakers and in the articles - and they have become quite a number of the articles I have written about the position of the Icelandic media and the status of the Kingdom News especially - that the TV is enjoying the soft and warm embrace of politicians. The priorities involved in the media in Iceland are that first the plans for the operation and the future of the Kingdom radio and that we should consider whether and how we can work on the survival of the independent media. Survival, that's the goal. It is the political policy that much of the generals have made, each in its own way, but no one puts it this way. If that is the will of the government, and if it is our will here to support the diversity of the media and to make the media's independence possible, we will not escape the law of the State TV, law No. 23/2013. And it just so happens, Mr. President, that later tonight is on the program for a bill I have submitted with my partner, okay? paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson, who takes note of the points I have made as a topic of publicity, suggested that in two steps, the Kingdom News disappears from a commercial market. The first step will be taken on January 1, the second, where there will be a limit to the state radio coverage, for example. No direct sales for advertisements, and at the beginning of 2023, advertising is a thing of the past. But right at the beginning of the year, the State Radio will be such as Do not make an option on the part of the program. There are 2,000 million people in this year. And, of course, the State Radio is running a competitive business, including the U.S. -...employment. You might want to consider that even if the bill doesn't. I think, Mr. President, it is reasonable to think that in connection with the bill we are discussing here, the bill I was making is a subject for, and hopefully follow-up physical treatment at the conference and later, at the General and Education Committee before it is finally replaced and approved by the 3rd Environment. Although I'm not suggesting it here, and now it may be wise for me to see that when the General and Education Committee has received the bill on advertising at the TV, to pull the Kingdom News fully in two steps from the advertising market, she calls the bill that is here to be discussed again and discuss them. Then you may be able to take some real step, and you may be able to discuss that we are creating some type of soil that can be described as reasonably healthy for independent media to sustain in the coming years, and then you can be assured that this action, which is temporary, but it is temporary - although worrying. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, the son of Sveinsson, who showed earlier that it wants to happen when you put something on the ground, it's hard to take it off. I still think it takes senators at least To again drink the cup that we are evidently about to drink here and extend this ongoing situation. It can be avoided. Of course, it is in itself unhealthy to believe that independence from the media is under the heel of the financiership in the manner proposed here. The support will likely be permanent, rising each year because it will be such an unholy alliance between the media and the politicians, where the politicians will control their independent media. But the media will also have the power to get the politicians to raise their power because they always need more and more because they have become dependent on their Kingdom power. And how on earth should we talk about independent media when at least Part of them all, because the treasure of the kingdom, even the taxpayers, is to be given to them for business? True, I'll make it clear that this may not be the worst case ever supported by a trust fund. It doesn't change that it's abnormal, it's not healthy. I feel like we're a doctor who looks at the patient, feels the pain, doesn't want to cut it off. He does not want to cut it off and just give the patient a amplitude or some aspirin, and he temporarily feels better, but the problem does not go away. We are in this doctor's position, who does not trust to attack the injury, cut it off, and give the patient a lasting measure of healthy life. As I said before, I've had doubts in my life, and that may even be said in a mild way, of the right of the state to engage in media business and to run a media company. But I realize that it will not be long before it will be a problem for a state - of - state operation in the wake of the century. I do not minimize the sincere conviction of many who feel that it is necessary for the State to have and drive a media medium to support Icelandic culture, art, history, and language, etc. And I respect those views. But let us assume that the government media's operation in such a way that it does not hurt, nor does it detract from the activity of independent media, small and great. If we agree to run here the competent State Radio, let us do so in a way that will affect the function of independent media. This is the only way we can make the Kingdom News fully out of a competitive market. That's why I think it's only wise that we try to discuss these matters at the same time. V.E.G. President. I can go on for a long time, but I believe that I have considered most of the factors that were on my mind. I think it is right to conclude this with the words: The media that directly depend on the government can be free only in word.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u83	Mr. President. I'd like to thank a senator for his excellent speech. I was able to share most of my conversations with each other in a talk. paritaprevir Sigríður Á. Andersen and I would like to say the same thing to what. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kámsson. There are many things in his speech, and almost all that I can agree with. I'm a little worried about wording that I heard appeared in the senator's speech, and it was that it was likely that members of Congress were forced, or something like that, to accept this bill. Probably in the sense that it's better than nothing, better than nothing for the private media to get money. It may be that in the end some members of the council feel that they have to take such action, to accept this in need, but I will not. However, it is interesting to ask, " Is it not possible to change this even further, at least to put it down with a bill as good as any? ' A senator named here, and he's a porter, along with his head. paritaprevir The wearer of the son of Níelsson, if I remember correctly, i.e. about taking them the State Radio from a commercial market, as they do in their bill. Actually, there are other ideas on this table, e.g. bill of a radio bill's disposition as a what? Bergþór Ólason has served. I think it's right to discuss all of this and try to take care of some kind of future mice about this elephant in the room that you like to talk about and, of course, is the State Radio, which is the biggest problem in Iceland's media. I'd like to ask you what. Senator: If we can get RUSB out of a commercial market, 2,000 million or so will be eliminated from the operation of these slots. What do we do with the demands that then arise in some way? How will we answer that question? Because it comes as soon as possible. A senator recommends this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u84	Mr. President. I think I put it this way earlier that I was in a kind of walnut crisis or that I was up to the wall when it came to this bill. However, I am personally convinced that if we have the wisdom to take that step, I was talking about - and I heard a scene. A senator would agree with the rationality of taking the Kingdom News completely out of a competitive market, we're trying to create a healthy environment -- then won't need the official support measures we're discussing and that it's much healthier. I am quite aware that if this step takes place, it will definitely be required, such as the dog. A senator put it that way, and I'm going to put it in the petals, which I'm going to make up the Kingdom broadcast. The question is, Should we not replace their own losses as a result of their actions and priorities on the market when it ironed, for example? promoted the advertising market around the World Cup soccer tournament. I'm good at that. Part of the project is to define the role and duties of the State Radio. If it is not possible to run the State Radio for the 43/45 billion paid by taxpayers, do you have to go through it and ask yourself, " Wait, can't you get anything more for every dollar that goes in there? ' I believe that's possible. I'll get to that later.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u85	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. It is true that, of course, this is about the fact that the state is not in a competitive business where it is obvious that a great deal of competition is, in fact, just a great deal of competition. Not only do national media compete with government but foreign media are also available. Thus, the competition is very active and high at the market in which the media operates. That's why I agree with that, too. A senator's concern is that it is very dangerous to ridicule the government through a committee's distribution, as it were. paritaprevir Sig hardon On. Andersen mentioned, which, of course, is a very special arrangement. At the same time, we actually ridicule the media. There's gonna be an unhealthy relationship between us. However, I am wondering if there is usually any need for a state radio in the form that we have today. I think it's true, and I can totally agree that if we define the need or define the role of the State Radio from sharing culture, protecting our tongue, and such, being our cultural awareness of the media market, we may well be able to create an acceptable system around it. It would have to be that the government's budget was tied, not the taxation of individuals and businesses in the land, but the financial resources of this cultural institution from the government. As a result, there could be a department at the Ministry of Education or Culture, or what it was called, those who handled this part of culture that we really need and want. Sometimes they say we're supposed to keep Channel 1 behind, and I just put it in the petals, it can be in some form. But we have to get rid of these huge predatory baloneys because of the competitive market so that the media can grow and develop and develop like another business in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u86	Mr. President. In recent years, I have become increasingly convinced that there are evidence that the Kingdom News is on budgets and that the radio fees will not be collected, as it is done. I think that's all there is to it. I agree with that. Senator. I have also suggested that the State Radio be a kind of channel for national and national programs, etc. Except that the National TV runs a news agency, a powerful news agency, but all other programs, which go first and last to be Icelandic - we could say some percentage of Norwegian and something like that but mostly Icelandic - should be offered. We're going to raise up independent producers all over the country, so we're gonna get a show from Redfarves -- I'm not talking about from the Sea of Galilee. A senator, we'd get a lot of factors from then on, and from there on hand with all of them, but we'll get independent programmemakers who'll pop up all over the country if we go to make the State Radio a kind of channel for Icelandic programs independent of the operating programs and movie producers, etc. This is an idea that I gave in a very thorough manner five, six years ago in a magazine article in the great national issue that all members of Congress should subscribe to, but now let it go. I hear it's at least Not between us. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, son of Sveinsson in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u87	Mr. President. This bill is, in effect, the natural offspring of the government community because it is embarrassing and some are very painful. I admit that when I sat under a beautiful talk. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son Kálmá here made me feel as if I were listening to the section of rock opera, Jesus Christ, a superstar, where Christ is in the garden of Gethsemane reasoning with his god on whether he should drink the toxic cup that the Lord has rationed him. At the end he gives up, saying, "Yes, I will drink this cup." [[Up front.]] That's exactly what happened. A senator said earlier, "We will bear this cup." So those independents who have been seen here today, and God bless them, they have naturally revealed how embarrassing this matter is for the government and how embarrassing it is. The thing is, and I said it in 1st. about this case, that I don't think there is one sector that has taken such a big change in the sharing of information, at least for as long as I remember. Today, one man with a computer has become a recording. He can have an effect, just infinite, and even as powerful as a few hundred people, who are run for government money. It also turns out that the competition we're talking about now is not just going on the inside, it's also out. Everyone here is competing with foreign companies and dispersal hosts who have the tax benefits that they don't pay taxes or salary or anything like that. That's a big problem. I think it would have been the right thing to start by taxing these international enterprises which are domestic, large and small, state run and not, bad business. Instead, the government decides, doesn't it? Secretary of education, starting at the wrong end. It may best describe the awkwardness of this matter that when a similar question did not arise in opposition to it earlier today, why not? paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, who is the spokesman for this matter: Well, you have to start somewhere. That's right, and with President's permission, there's also a saying that it's better to wave the wrong tree than a hook. The point is that instead of attacking the problem as the taxation of the foreign competitors, the government says: No, we're in charge of all of this. Iceland's media market now is becoming like Marteinn Mosdal's dream Mosdalur, just one member of the state media. And what will happen then? It says that this is done to preserve freedom from independent media. That, Mr. President, is completely inverse because if a medium, large or small, depending on the government, it will be difficult for him to bite the hand that feeds him. At least it is very difficult in the pet world to bite the hand that gives you birth. On the contrary, by the fact that this activity is becoming publicized, we are reducing freedom and freedom of the media. I think, too, it's true, it's not in today's discussions - that after the distribution rules that are now on the money exchange, there must have been some left-hand green to support the wealth in Iceland with the hundreds of millions of dollars that are here running to the biggest media in Iceland. In fact, this discussion has not appeared because it is overrun. Even some may be poisoned on both sides. Because the government is so strangely put together and so divisively, people take the easy way out. Independents claim to have won by temporarily making the intervention, which means that those who run the media will knock at the door again after a month and carry themselves gruelly. Hv. paritaprevir In his speech earlier, Óli Björn Kárason said that while men had no courage to change the rules of this market, nothing would happen. That's right. The middle class and I have provided a route that may also benefit those politicians who dare not handle this matter. And what is that? Yes, it is that in the first place, those who pay radio fees will sell a self-inflicted example of whom they pay their radio fees. We have decades of experience with this because of another collection belonging to the National Church. Those who are not listed there can direct their money elsewhere, here on a wave at the university, and now in other religions of their choice. As I have said here before, we Icelanders are born into two institutions, we are born into the National Church, and we are born into RUS. The difference is, we can resign from the State Church but we must serve the shift for the rest of our lives. This big thing, and the main thing, is not mentioned in the bill. The source of the problem, if we can put it that way, is not mentioned in this bill, and it is very bad that it is not. Now I must also make it known, Mr. President, before further being held, because here stepped on the stock of this day a nice dog. Senator of the United States and spoke of smaller parts when he was describing the respect he spoke for, that I am not part of the lesser part that the noble senator spoke of today. Like my friends, I think we should proceed in such a way that we should allow subscribers to decide for themselves which money they're going to pay for the radio. Whether they want it to flow to the Hour or the Morning or the Core, or whatever, or their local newspaper, it doesn't matter. That's how it is now, I think, that RUS is the only thing in Iceland, possibly in the whole world, who can get away with the cake and eat it, too. There's so much money on the farm, it was shown in the last financial debate and payment. It was not one but two suggestions from the Parliament on the budget that were directed to support the financial situation of RUS. It doesn't seem to be enough because that great company is run by 200 million. K. Loss of it is said. It doesn't help, Mr. President -- because it doesn't mean just to point your fingers at RUS and criticize that union -- that it's also the business arrangement that's critical. That is because, as has happened in many places where public societies are founded, the surveillance will be more and less successful in all the world, and the business will just roll on, without any apparent direction. We have other examples, as I mentioned, and maybe the most remarkable thing that is now being attempted to do is the postman ohf. So the question is, what will we do, Madam President, when we face situations similar to those in the media market? And now, I'd like to promote that the Ministry of Education and the government have just given public educational institutions of all sorts of sordid funds for heavy management, but all private schools, seminars and others don't get a nickel, Madam President. They don't get a single cent, and just this one point for themselves is that their operating ground is really wrong. If this is to be an example, that the state of everything where people stand because a big government agency or a big government company or aniversary has superpower on the market, then perhaps we'll be reduced to all who hold courses in Iceland, Dale Carnegie and Mimi and what they're all named, and do a good job, instead of just trying to see that it's given right. As more people here have spoken today, I fear that despite the fiscal victory of the Independence Party to establish this arrangement, we will see that it will be an eternity machine and that we will continue to draw money into the media environment for many years to come. This amount must go up as much as any other budget in Iceland. Therefore, I say this matter is bad, and staying on a committee for two or three months has not improved. Nothing's improved because the basic problem has not gone into place. I received an excellent delivery today, where a nice man says, with president's permission: ◯ Here is simply putting the media in a ventilator without any way dealing with the problem of the free media. You're absolutely right. And the main thing that stands out is two, one on the other hand, the vacuum of the foreign media and the dispersal hosts that suck advertising money out of the country and the power of the government radio. The State Radio is then to be done even more competitively by implementing some European directive that accounts for 30% of the material, of all blacks, for European purposes. I think I've read it somewhere during the day that a nice man said it was a way of politicians to make sure they were bored, and not just a lot, but a lot. In these days when free media should actually bloom because one man with a computer has become loaded and can have a great impact, as I said earlier, there is no great expense unless someone tries to step on it and stamp it as an opportunity today. Madam President. There will never be peace on the distribution of such money, ever. All who do not receive or receive will argue over this, and they will point out that someone has received more than he is and others much less. There will never be peace on this distribution at any time. From this bill, we've built an eternity machine that's pumping money out of a government fund, almost for the next few years or decades. We're going to get it out of here that there's not going to be any peace between the media and the media. That's what we have from this bill. It's a real pain when the solution I pointed out here, which we middle-classes have spoken about, is that they get to choose with their feet, they get to decide for themselves, the Icelanders get to decide for themselves what this nose tax, if he happens to be here, can go or should go. It is a very simple operation, Mrs. President, and with it is a poignant to the leak of politicians who dare not deal with the problem by extending it to those who use or enjoy it. Very simple. I can also agree with that when they say, "Do we need to have a national radio here? And people often talk about how good it is to promote the culture, which is absolutely correct. I'm also going to say here that the State Radio does not believe that my opinion rests with the demands on which it plays on the other hand so - called a security role and a cultural role. Unfortunately, I must say so, e.g. Because, of course, the State Radio should be at the tip of a good tongue, the treatment of Icelandic language, but unfortunately, the calamity side is over there. I've said myself, and I can live by the fact that I think the state needs e.g. I don't run a television station when we've got a public host spreading all kinds of entertainment, I don't talk about if the state is to shop 30% material that's least boring somewhere to keep us from giving a smile. That's the best you can sell. On the other hand, I disagree with those who say only Channel 1 is cultural. Channel 2 has a tremendous cultural role as well and has, for example, a role. Collect at one spot of concerts and concerts by means of Icelandic common music, from 1985 or 1983, whenever this channel was formed. It is not inferior to the cultural value of Passius Blocks or to the initial transfer of works after the late late Páll Ísólfsson. Yes, it would be nice to have an institution to care for and hold this inheritance, but I am not one of those who claims that the State has to run a television station. Actually, I'm not in the mood for the state to run a news agency either. People talk about BBC and more stations than the National Radio in Iceland just isn't the BBC and the news agencies I remember best from the past are Novosty and more of the ones in the Government. [[The president calls.]] We don't need such a news agency.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u88	V.E.G. President. The purpose of the bill considered here is to establish a support system for the private media. You wonder, " What kind of vision does governments have about the media and the media? ' So here we are to make what we call the media itself dependent on the government. Then someone would say, " What kind of independence is that? ' There is no remarkable independence in my mind. The fact that members of Congress are at the point where the media market should be in such a way that it is fully dependent on the government is very special. Of course, we know exactly what the problem is. We know this, and most of us feel all right that on this market alone, the state is the dominant party, that all traditional competitive rules are turned aside when it comes to the media market. I don't think we'd accept this arrangement in any other market. Hardly, I don't think men could accept that. I think it's absolutely clear that once we get this on, even though this bill assumes that it's temporary, it will not have to go away unless you tell them to the private media: you just have to die. There is no interest in solving the real problem on this market. We're going back 50 years, 60 years by creating a system where we're paid from a government fund to keep any business alive. It's never going to work. We've had experience with that. We have experience with this in various operations around and after the middle of the last century. We must establish a normal media market, just as at all other markets, where natural competition thrives and those who play that market have some equal strength. It's not done here, far from fine. We have never had the courage to revise the role of the Kingdom broadcaster, first of all, whether there is a right to anyone in today's society to see that the State is in such competitiveness. And if, like many people, it's important that the state is taking care of some kind of culture, then it has to be defined exactly, but not just this way, that the state radio gets billions of dollars a year, is a market manager, and competes with others on advertising income, etc. This is abnormal and everybody sees it. Why can't you change this? It is as if many here feel that the Kingdom News is some kind of sacred cow with no standard rules, no natural market should be around the media. We just want to have this state radio, no matter what it is we're talking about. And if others can't live with it, then we'll pay for it too. This is the prospect for most politicians in this country. It's terrible, of course. Thus, it is acceptable for people to feel that the State Radio is receiving tax money but is competitive - and to keep alive in someone who always becomes someone they receive support from a government fund. Then there's a costable system around it in the bill. Staff, office, application procedures, tens of millions of applications will cost each year. So I wondered why many people's attitude toward Kingdom Hall is in a way that makes this arrangement acceptable to them. In fact, all of us have been able to understand that state and church. We've done it. However, understanding the Kingdom radio or the Kingdom beacon, it seems impossible, as if heaven and earth were lost. You need to check that today's media environment is anything but when you arrived on a Kingdom center, a beacon of light in many parts of the world under the circumstances of the day. That was understandable back then. But we are still trapped in the state media, knowing that there will never be a healthy market for media traffic. It doesn't matter that there will never be a healthy market here, no matter how much more is pumped from a government fund in the state media. So now it is time to pump more money in order to keep alive at some point in private media that they want to call independent media but, of course, never become independent of them. Then somehow people are so desperate to think that it could just be temporary. Of course, it will never be. When the sunset rules expire after a year or two and politicians say, "No, it's just temporary - you think politicians are standing up and saying, "Yes, listen, it's just temporary, that's all? Oh, no, it won't be like that. We must have the courage to reevaluate the role of RUS, since people are not prepared to put away what is, of course, just a matter of time error in modern society. I realize that it is not the race at all, at least not at once, to define its role, what is not in direct competition, evaluate the cost, and then allow other media to compete in the commercial market. Of course, I know that the problem is deeper than that. We have a problem with foreign community services, what they record from Icelandic mediums, advertising from them, etc. It does not seem that we have much thinking about how we can cope with the problem. This bill will solve no problems, not permanently. There will never be any independence of the media and a normal media market in this arrangement, just never. This is what I think everybody knows, and yet they're going to go that way. I suggest that men take a closer look, that they simply cross the entire state market that has disturbed me for a very long time. The present system is long out - of - date, but for some reason, political activity is never made more of an object to do something about it. It's kind of psychological. It is as if someone is dealing with the same psychological problem as that humans cannot imagine someone selling alcohol but a state worker. Of course, it's the same syndrome. One day, when all the evidence breaks down for State Radio business, people will probably just come up with public health, for it always works, that the nation's people health will be very bad if the RUS stops. With the ohf structure, it looks like a private firm of some employees who do what they want. There's no government, even if it's a national radio. It's just some independent government, some people we've hired, and we have nothing to do with it. You just do what you want, you just do the law whenever you want, and nothing happens. Politicians are really total losers when this happens, even though these are billions of expenses every year. We're just watching this happen. We just don't care, because most of us feel so damn good stuff over there and we're used to having it, it's always been there. [[Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh!]] People wonder and watch this. At least I don't see any differences between factors there and factors I see on N4 or Ringtrack or Station 2 or what they call all of them. Of course, it's just long out - of - date, but we can't deal with it. In itself, I will not belittle the fact that the State could do some cultural work, something that puts duties on the State Center rather than on others. Yet, humans do nothing but care. But to be just like an ordinary medium, to distort the whole market, to make all the other media incontrovertible is unnatural. We'd never accept it like this in any other business, but in a photon, we're trapped in it. What would people say here if there was a government store with some products that would always get an X high each year, which could affect the price and all of it and advertise more that it was all paid for. And then there's a market race. The same people who are special supporters of the State Radio jamming this whole market and just thinking they're all right are very busy with all competitive rules when it comes to other operations, but not these. It is impossible for any healthy man to understand this. I'll never understand. So these people think it's also modern. There's nothing modern about the government being in this business, there's nothing modern about it at all. This is actually out - of - date. It is an out - of - date system, an out - of - date arrangement, long out - of - date, has been out - of - date for over 20 years. Still, it is like tearing out people's hearts that we need to reconsider, of course. We need to reexamine the role of the State Radio. But it will never work. It's going to be all locked up here, just like when we're going to be authorized to sell alcohol that's a legitimate product. Even the government cannot allow us to have nicotine pads, some laws and regulations about which we have been given. At the same time, these people are allowing their consumption of illegal materials and asking for consumption space for them. Where are we? But no one other than a government worker can sell alcohol. It is only hope that a person will scratch his head. Of course, nothing changes during this arrangement. If voters don't vote for liberal democracies, we're stuck with this in the future. Even the Central Party has become a liberal democracy at the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u89	Officers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u90	Sportsmen?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u91	Officers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u92	Officers?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u93	Authors?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u94	The central party is never going to be the pioneers. No, we need to change our thinking about this. The wealth is not an inexhaustible resource. We can't just do whatever we want. We must arrive at a healthy market. I realize it's always harder in a small group, in a small community. But the world is big, and the media is no longer bound to countries, there are many things available. I could live with the fact that the State played a very limited cultural role in protecting the Icelandic language and culture, something that concerns our inheritance. But there is no need to be in what they are now. It's strange to me that not all of us agree to try to limit this to a completely reserved role. For some reason, we're stuck in this, and we can't get out of this. We're going to create a system that will never be satisfied, never. You will argue about these appointments, you will find yourself at odds with not being in the house, etc. It just creates an inconsistencies. We're going to assign some people to decide who gets money and who doesn't get it. How do you think this is gonna be, huh? Senators? It will be boring, just as much as it can be. This will only lead to a further improvement and improvement. That means taxing and taxing. And people think that there are no consequences because there is plenty to do in the community. This is the talk of society: There is plenty. When they think that there's enough, they always end badly, absolutely definitely. V.E.G. President. I've finished my speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u95	A respectable president. This was shown in the talk "Wicked. " A senator was so successful in bringing a segregation of state and church. I scratched my head a lot because I had no idea what was going on. A senator was talking about, especially when I look at budgets and there I see contributions to the National Church of America of 3.8 billion and other things that raise the figure somewhat. Churchyards up to 1.2 billion and parishes of which the Church receives a greater portion of 2.7 billion. Then, however, there are 4.5 billion Kingdom News. If a state and church have been separated, then according to this, there is just as much separation between state and State TV as there is in front of us by the budget bill. After all, both the nations and the State Radio are on budgets. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Where is this separation of Church and State?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u96	A respectable president. I simply said that it would be better to separate state and church than to the State Radio. Acquisitions are just collected through the state. It's not just about the church, it's about all the partners. Moreover, as far as the church is concerned, the State is buying a certain type of service at an assembly. On the other hand, we present a special tax on some of the people, not all of them, who go directly to the State Radio. That's a big difference between state and church. Of course, that's certainly true. much greater separation between Church and State than the State and the Light Label, which no one understands why. I've always been a spokesman for the Church's independence. She has now, has changed it, it is no longer government employees. The church has its rules. True, RUSV is a natural, very peculiar government device. They create a partnership with some government, and elected agents have nothing or little to say about it. It's just that there's become some kind of state in the state. But I'll agree that the State Radio will be the same as the church.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u97	A respectable president. It's interesting if it is. A senator wants to separate state and State Radio in the same way as state and state church. It would be interesting to see that process. I can't wait to see what it's going to be like for the next campaign. It's just gonna be interesting. We have a little problem with the church that we as government are not buying any service from the church. It is not defined in any contracts what we are getting for these all too many billions of people who go to the National Church. There's something a little more specific in the law about the State Radio. But as we have seen in various cases, there may be a difference between what people feel is fulfilled. There is, of course, a big difference between that and not really having anything to do with what to get for this, though, would be enough to go to the National Church. [[The president calls.]] If we are going to go to a common arrangement, where either the Church is not on budget, and then the State News is not on budget - it is. A senator suggesting that, or is it something else? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u98	V.E.G. President. What I have found especially remarkable about Pirata's campaigns that have fought against the National Church and have been a great opponent of the state - and - church relationship is that a statement has never been heard from the Piranha that the state should not be running the radio. I've never heard that. It may be some time, I've never heard it, never. All the battles of Pirata have somehow centered on the fact that the State is not coming near to the church, either in support of it or in order to buy some fees or collect fees, nothing. But the state radio is very important. I can honestly say that I think the church is doing a lot more good for the Americans than ever State Radio. Others do it much better than that, I can tell.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u99	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for a brilliant speech. I was pretty much in agreement with what I was doing. A senator with the approach he had on the subject we're discussing here. I kind of have to get it over that, Mrs. President, because I'm talking about the National Church that I admit to the fact that sometimes the Church of Nations has been getting its hairs on my head to rise even more than usual, but not like the government radio I've seen over the years, really evolved from me. A few years ago, I was a great supporter of the Kingdom Radio, when the TV was the national media of all the people. Now it's some kind of media medium of good people. There is nothing else that will find out in this medium, which, of course, is very sad. The government radio has, in fact, failed to fulfill its role in all opinions. We'll see, for example. what experts are provided in a discussion program. I don't remember right men getting much to come there, so I'm just gonna mention it, but I'm not gonna argue about it at what? A senator. I've got to tease. A senator only because he was shooting at us in the Central Party. It is true that we may sometimes be a little rural in this category, and it is now mostly when we are looking at the settlements and the agriculture and something like that. But, hey. For the past 37 years, a senator has been in charge of the Ministry of Education for 27 years. For 27 of the 37 years, the independent party has been in charge and conduct the State Radio case. I know why. A senator hasn't been to the council yet, and I know it. A senator has a very different opinion of this than his colleagues at the time, I think. It was the Independence Party that turned it into an ohf. So it is slow to find a way to change only the course of life and try to take care of yourself in this ideal category, the Independence Party. You often agree with what comes from him, but it is true that humans have just not been on the watch. That is why the Kingdom News has been doing the way it has gone, and it has become what it is today.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u100	V.E.G. President. That's right. Of course, the independent party is responsible, and they have been conducting the Ministry of Education very much in recent decades. This does not change because there has never been more political things here at the council for the changes for which lndependence has spoken, never has there been. It's true that this Ohf thing has gone bad. What happens is that this will only be one of their own firms in control. That's why people experience what they're doing. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, that there's only a certain point of view there. All neutrality is gone and gradually. This may not happen at once. This, of course, is the problem. This is the problem with market business. A marketing senior society, society, creates this problem. We're not supposed to have it that way. The only place the state should be is where there is no competition, there is no market. But we always feel that the Kingdom is not in harmony with any rules. It doesn't need anything because it's for our fund. People don't realize that this market is being ruined. Eventually, we'll lose on it. Of course, that's just the problem. I'm not leaving the Independence Party with any responsibility in this. I've always known that many independents are busy having their RUS, otherwise the day is ruined. But it's still out of date, huh? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u101	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I agree that this arrangement is out - of - date. It is something special when a person compares himself even with the BBC, a form of universal media. There's a completely different law about him in itself, but this little one, which is still huge in Iceland, a tether that's the State Radio. It hasn't even lived up to the responsibilities it should have, as we did, e.g. when the storm broke into December 2019, I think it was, when the system here did not work that meant sending messages to people, etc. That's what worries me most, what. A senator, that this has become more a force in the community, as you describe it, which defends the State Radio, this business, under cover of milder control.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u102	V.E.G. President. Yes, yes, they often mention the BBC, the British national radio, which, of course, is a completely different arm. They are not in a commercial market, so all competition is very different. This, however, is just a community in normal business, producing material, etc. In competition, everything different. I notice that Danir has become very thinking about Danmarks estuary and has now cut down on the costs and cut down on its activities. This cannot be offered to taxpayers forever. I think we just have to take this. However, it will always be difficult when we have a national radio, since a large proportion of voters do not have to pay their dues. They will never disagree. Of course, it's subsidized by taxpayers. It makes it so easy to make people just feel at peace with the situation. That's why it's so hard to change, although everyone knows in the foundation that it's long out - of - date, it's going to damage the independent medium, and it's going to ruin this market. Then two years from now, people will have to answer whether they're okay to drop out of this support and just let those psychics die. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u103	Madam President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for an excellent speech, which was fine in most respects unless he was seriously lost when he felt that in the Central Party, he was not the founder. And because it is now that my hearts and hearts are in it. A member of the Central Party and members of the council have taken quite often and often feel that this is coming out of the most severe direction. I'm writing this to you that he just didn't pay attention, e.g. in this case where we have suggested that a person may post his own radio fees wherever they wish. As I say, I think what. A senator didn't listen. However, I want to follow through on a talk. A senator and a what. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason will allow me to question the fact that there is more to come to this Congress of the Independence Party. Wait a minute. A senator to correct me if I find that wrong. I'd like to ask who, too. Senator if he doesn't agree with me even ... witha forwardprogram ofwhat. paritaprevir Kárason Björn's son and what? paritaprevir Empresseur, Brynjar of Níelsson, this evening and our council of the Middle Class, say that when it comes to a radio charge between 2 and 3, they will be called in. I will make my suggestion now, Madam President. Wait a minute. In view of what I said before, a senator agrees with me that this case is being brought back to committees of the past, i.e. First, that there is a question of doubt about the fact that more is involved in the case of the Independence Party, second of all, that the two partners present tonight and in view of the case that the Middle Order has suggested that they themselves have a radio fee or part of it to the multicenter company they choose.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u104	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by taking back my words about the fact that Middle-class members are not great pioneers. I think they're often great pioneers and a little different from the rest of us. But I agree that I thought it was normal for this case to be accepted and actually discussed with our bill why. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son to take the RuV out of a commercial market. I don't think senators can avoid discussing the general way in which men envision this future market. We know that if we don't do anything, the independence of the media will just be blown off. It's going to be some kind of sound radio or some of that small media. There will be no real media, and it's not something we see useful in an Icelandic society. We need real independent media and we're not gonna make it in this system. So if we think that the object of the product needs to remain unchanged, I don't think that it has to be necessary. Middleclass motions are worthy of our opinion, just as our proposals were. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son, taking this all at once, taking a real look at this. There's nothing we can do about it. We need to think about this media market because it is important. People talk about the importance of the media. I agree that they're important, but we just can't have one media, a state medium, which is the only one we can call a real multicenter on this market. We can't.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u105	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. I am glad that he saw his face. Then I'd like to use this opportunity to renew what I said earlier, that we need to get this case to the committee. Where it is. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason is sitting on a global and educational committee, I think it must be our common interests for both of us to get through it. I want to pray. A senator about to tear back what I actually mentioned in a speech about the fact that men don't come to the hand that feeds them, only for a short time, and whether he is, as he has already killed, do not agree with me that this so-called human freedom is trying to preserve with this bill - that the bill will not be successful in preserving this freedom while the media are being directed on government money. I want to pray. A senator of killing only on this case again, please.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u106	V.E.G. President. Clearly, we cannot talk about the free and independent media that depend on the government's support. It just tells itself. We're simply creating some transfer system from taxpayers to some private business to keep it alive - we knew it in the old days with some unscrupulous success in the fishing industry and all sorts of local fishing projects, endless transfer funds, from taxpayers to keep living in some business - instead of creating some system of serious competition, serious business in this important article. The media is important, but this is not the way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u107	Madam President. I didn't mean to sit next to you tonight, but this is not the first time. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son will only set me on fire and fill me with enthusiasm. That is why I wanted to follow only what was discussed here. So that's how this case, like I took it before, may be the worst way to go. Instead of glorifying this forced subscription that follows us entirely over the grave and death and makes it more modern, it is not only for us, but also for the public, if he does not buy it and the core does not read it. And then I just take an example, it's like that instead of us consumers getting free choices about each part of our radio charge -- whatever our mind is heading for, the hour, the station 2 or what it is -- now to hang these so-called free independent media on the wall of the state, thereby hanging it for them to be free and independent. So I must once again, Madam President, renew what I said here. I formally request that this case be taken back to a committee between 2 and 3rd. so that their unattainable bill can be observed. paritaprevir Óli Björn's son of Kárason and Brauns Níelsson's son and that the influence of our council can be compared to the problem bill the government has issued. We must also determine, Madam President if it is a more real matter for this matter. Actually, I don't understand that the case has come so far. I don't understand in itself why it came out of the House of Independence in its own time. It's kind of completely hidden from me. Perhaps the spirit in the House of Independence is only heavier than that of the Assembly Hall. Men may be a tatter and speak freer, but they would do so. Now I don't know. I'm not an insider. I'm not going there. Yet, how amazing it is that this fine thing, or the truth, to say bad things, has come far away! Hence, we must insist that there be an absolutely complete analysis, and we will find out once and for all whether there is a more real thing here or if there is to be an even further adjustment, even in view of the future issue that we discussed earlier. You see, Madam President, we are now in a lot of dough. To be honest, it is also incomprehensible that the government and the Supreme Court. If this is the case, the minister of education should not take the initiative and try to promote Congress that a foreign task force is paying a tax here to level their game against those in Iceland who are involved in this business. In itself, it is not new that we try to settle that thing. All kinds of jobs in the country are given up competition with foreign interests. I could, for example. Named the agriculture. In Iceland, he competes with very subsidized agricultural products from another source. We have, of course, tried to straighten out the article in a certain way, but this does not mean that this practice must oversee all the activities that are competitive to foreign people. Rather, we can also correct it by separating from foreign people who are here trying to make themselves available or to take back the tax benefits they truly enjoy today. It would be more difficult for me to take it seriously. I'd also like to state that I went up into this pont, as I said in the beginning, because of the night. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son set me on fire only. I cannot help but agree with him, for he speaks of in himself being the State Radio as being such almost out of control. In itself, it would be the best thing that we could do for a short time, perhaps change our business plans again, change this company from a public partner, and turn it back into a real state agency, cutting it down to the appropriate size, as you say. That's exactly what came out, e.g. in the speech of a man. A senator earlier, of course, that we are strengthening all kinds of cultural activity. It's natural to say, and with great respect, that for any man who sits in Hörp on symphony, the taxpayers paid 10,000 bucks in every ticket, for every ass sitting there, 10,000 bucks. on you. Of course we'll do this. We'll strengthen these functions. It is a natural process to sift from time to time to make a real assessment of what will depend on the role of the state's television cultural network. The person here can honestly tell his mind that a company who's supposed to be a culturalist and works for him as an employee who's supposed to be a painter and invent a painter--it's hardly that I'd like to say it out of this chair, Mr. President - a reputation called a packer, which certainly doesn't meet his cultural role, but the proprietor of the State Radio is a proud author of this verbal writing, and this is the institution that's supposed to guard the tongue, different from before me. Sadly, though, the distribution system of these batteries does not come up with so many fish that you can, as a matter of fact, assume that you can get the necessary security services. I've previously told this story here in this chair that where I was on the South Mountain Coast, there I had to go over a few years and I might want to watch if something was going on, and turn on the radio was the first radio station that came into the Christian radio station in Likinum. Now I had no objection to driving that beautiful way under the god of God, but it was no matter how you looked on the radio that the radio of all the people of the country did not come in. As I say, this fine Christian radio station, along with other stations, came in free and independent. We also need to be careful that as soon as we try to balance these so - called free media with the two - sided "power of power, " i.e. First, a foreign national radio, and second, a foreign power that controls distribution hosts, we need to check clearly how we're going to level this thing without creating some monster that's going to be unsatisfactory and some long-term machine that's going to go forward in years. And to taxpayers, we continue to pay on the temporary loss of the Morning edition in part and part of the work of other sources. That's not the way, Madam President. The solution must be to balance the situation between these sources with tax returns rather than to reach out for the money in the pockets of taxpayers. Enough is enough. I hope that my request for the matter to be considered for the committee will be considered, and I really look forward to dealing with this matter again in that field. Many questions remain in this issue, which hopefully we will be able to resolve between 2 and 3. on a committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u108	V.E.G. President. Because of what? paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson is interested in knowing what happens in the Independence Party Group room, I can inform you that there is a living discussion, a process, and then men try to achieve a balanced match. There's a disagreement within the Independence Party on the role of the State Radio, but there's no disagreement, I think, about strengthening cultural activity. Israel's culture and heritage are important, but most of us in the Independence Party feel that they need to be a government agency that runs a radio station. So I ask. A member of Parliament: Is the Central Party designed to form the view that the State itself has to run a radio station so that cultural material can be communicated or that others can do so? Can we strengthen others if they are? What is the central Party's policy regarding government or photon or the media market over the head? What is the role of the Kingdom News there? Is it supposed to be something? Does the Central Party support our bill Óli Björn Kárason to take the RuV out of a commercial market, or does the Central Party believe that the right way is for all to be required to pay for a medium but only to choose? In case of a moment. A senator could explain the matter a little further to the senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u109	Madam President. I thank you for this clear description of the atmosphere in the House of Independence. I'm sure a lot of people were welcome to hear, not just the ones here. Because of what? A senator asked about the Central Party's policy on the State Radio best shows that we suggested that in the first place a section of the radio bill could be spent by those who pay for the services they want to pay. I don't think it'll be any clearer. I said before myself in my speech, and now I have to cry for it again. A senator should not listen carefully, to see, for example. there is no need for the Icelandic state to sack a television station where we would have here a television and a subject group through hundreds of nets and other media. It has to be with the state-of-the-part society on which, if a new legal case becomes a law, you have to buy 30% European material to get us bored even more - if that happens, I think it would be much better to find a private person who is trusting to run a television station on 30% of Europeans and just get the keys to it. The important thing is that, as I've told you several times before, he's going to make a choice to the public himself as to which one of the lights he's paying for his use fee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u110	V.E.G. President. I would have preferred that there were no radio fees, some special tax to run a photon or some medium. So I may not completely agree with the method that we should just choose the middle and continue to do so. I see that there will be a great deal more serious media market where people can compete on equal terms rather than on the whole state. That is not to say that the State does not support culture, whether it is on radio or on television or anything else. Perhaps because I have grown up, I believe that it is important to the community that we support Icelandic culture, the language. I believe that the middle-class members agree with me on the basis of it. But we can't afford to have such a crooked position in a media market where we're trying to ensure that everyone's equal status at all other markets in Icelandic society is out of control. We have competitive, competitive surveillance, but we are always ready to replace it with the authority of the Kingdom. Is it not true that the media agree that this is unnatural? We'll never reach a decent market, no variety, no independence from the media in that situation. This is what I'm trying to draw forward, and I think the foundation is in favor of middle-class members. Maybe it's just between going this way, having one of those radio fees, that you can choose where it goes, as it does with the church or the play of life? [[The president calls.]] It's like this between us. What does it say? A senator on this?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u111	Madam President. Me and what. A senator has come to the gray area that was tried to change the people's ways, not to agree. We have become mysteriously agreeing, me and what. A senator, for this is no surprise to me. He has come to realize that it is the first thing to take, as he so well put it, that interaction in allowing people to take part of a so - called radio fee and put it to the media that best they want. However, there is something else that we would need to do to establish this perfect media competition. A senator will mention, and if possible. Government, and hence what. paritaprevir The Independence Party, Brynjar Níelsson, would have had the best of luck to get to the right end, to begin with the tax freedom that a foreign group enjoys in Iceland. Instead of opening a government fund like a tap and letting it out, you don't know how long or how much, to those so - called free media that will no longer be free, you will no longer be independent. The other approach would have been much better. This is then the central category's first priority, the intermediate game, to allow those who enjoy and use, and to employ where the money is placed to ensure the most important business they want to see. But with what, I take my heart to it. A senator may think that we are the class that has gone the longest in trying to maintain language and culture. It now happens that one of the members of the Central Party is sometimes president of the council and is extremely strict in the use of Icelandic language. [[The president calls.]] The day of the United States is November 16, but all days in the United States are the days of the Icelandic language.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u112	Madam President. We're discussing the state application of all the media in Iceland in a considerable way. We will discuss a case presented as temporary arrangement, but in reality it is a future arrangement, as shown by the case itself and by the opinion of a greater proportion. The General Committee. It says, for example, by permission of the President: It's the same as "C" section 2. the bill shall be followed by an application for management support, as well as additional data, at no later date than March 31st/year. Every year, Madam President. A number of other factors in this matter show that although it is actually presented on false grounds as temporary arrangement, it is evidently thought of as a future arrangement. In fact, it is associated with an epidemic of crown virus, but it is like a whale. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason and others have mentioned the matter, in fact, in the same nature as the case presented in December 2019, is the same. But that was before the outbreak. When the Korean epidemic began, some saw a chance to put the matter on a crown, so to speak. All of a sudden, it became a Covid thing. Then it happens again now, when we finally see that this epidemic is beginning to resolve in Iceland, stop being a problem for us, that it is once again proposed as temporary planning for the economic situation and its impact on the Icelandic press. Private media had become a major problem, a major financial problem, long before the start of the crowning epidemic. It had long been for good reason to address the environment of these mediators in a whole sense. It wasn't done. It was offered the same language as this on the national accessories, the epidemic was used as logical support, and now added to the disguises involved in calling temporary arrangements, which I honestly prefer not to say honestly when considering the matter. Each person can be aware of what is expected with the future impact of the matter. Besides the obvious facts that many have brought up in this discussion, why. paritaprevir Doubs of Níelsson's son in his speech, that we can all guess this, the 63 senators, what it would be like if someone reminded us of the fact that it was only temporary, and therefore it should not be extended. You will see, not just the council, but the media of this arrangement. And I suppose the reminders will not fail that those who are not planning to extend themselves are endangering the future of the Icelandic media. So here it is being introduced a real future arrangement, a future system in the disguise of Covid and temporary arrangements. There's been no trouble with this case, Mrs. President. You can see this clearly in the matter itself, and indeed in committees, the complications have become enormous. Hv. paritaprevir Andersen was fine with it in a speech such that I'm not spending long hours reviewing the complications of the case, which in many ways are peculiar. I need permission from a press committee, and a 12-month lead-in period is needed, which I agree with. Of course, members of the council who have been reminded are a great barrier to access in this article. Those who might think of forming a new medium, starting with a small medium, will have their feet set against those who already have that support. As I mentioned earlier, the media had long been in trouble, and it should have been a complete approach to these matters a long time ago. People have suggested different paths, as I come in a little better afterwards, but nothing has been done with it is just hacked into the same makeup. In a new service contract with the State Radio, despite promises made, at least Expectations of what it did, handling the problems of this institution's activities, such as it was designed to put in other media. I had come to realize that this should be solved some extent in a new service contract, as well as the legal duties of the Kingdom News on neutrality and something else that might be somewhat less appropriate. But it went above the garden and below. The minister may not have wanted to strategize such an effective media. And here we are stuck with this solution in case it is due to the fact that time has not been used for the overall picture. It can turn out that way. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason called an unholy alliance. What will it be like, for example? if you start dealing with it in a campaign, what category will you give the media the most money, the harsh money? I know several groups here at a council that might wish to participate in such populism and make an auction with other groups of that topic. Those who made them anything less would be accused of wanting to starve the media. How is it, Madam President, that there has not been a way of reacting to the media - and there is no disagreement about their problems - meet them with ease, balance their competitiveness? Of course, it is inevitable to accept the position of the State Radio superiors, this prerogative on the market. While men may imagine that this arrangement, the state of all media, will not interfere with the media coverage - some may imagine it, in many cases it is probably right to be able to overlook it - however, it cannot be overlooked that this puts the media in a more difficult position toward the person who distributes the money and can make it harder for the media to criticize higher government spending. Once more and more, when the State is adding expenses somewhere, will the media be as well equipped to criticize such things, being self - strengthening as the State's? That is why it would have been much better to meet the media by improving their environment, by preconceiving them to a certain extent by paying a valuable tax, just like foreign companies - I'm not saying they're lifted up, they don't raise as much as the State Radio, but they're all about to take a substantial income, a possible income, from domestic media, and they don't pay taxes here. To balance that position, guard your equality, it would be reasonable to meet the media in that way. We see that Station 2 News Service no longer broadcasts news into an open program. These groups and their effects were mentioned in connection, that the station had to shut down the broadcast except for subscribers. It is a great loss, Madam President, that most of the country's population now only have access to television news from the state, and it is even likely to be turned upside down and used as logical support for the fact that the state needs to have these television news when it's done with the rest of the story. So reverse is sometimes the argument in this matter. Of course, it is quite remarkable that the Kingdom News is not mentioned in this matter. After that, I had to go over it again. paritaprevir Sigríður Á. Andersen pointed out the fact that it is not mentioned in the language, nor is it part of the committee's list of parts. The concept of the living room elephant has probably never been as relevant as it was about the State Radio in this case, the big case that has the most impact on the media market here, where one giant is the State's scholarship and with a totally controlled position on a commercial market. You are discussing how you can cope with your personal media and simply act as if there is no problem. Sadly, in all too many cases today, people are dealing with things, not as they really are, but perhaps rather as they should be, or, as in this case, simply ignore them. For a discussion of the Kingdom News, see the topic mentioned earlier in the discussion. Óli Björn the Kárason of Meriah, and Bristur the Brynjar of Níelsson, have come forward. I agree with the proposal that came from which it first came from. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason and others have agreed that these matters should, of course, be discussed together. It has now been requested that the matter be brought back to a committee of discussions and, of course, normal - and not really normal, that it would be unnatural not to do so when the Kingdom News was forgotten in the case. But it can still be corrected, and I hope to do so. Congress officials are not alone in this matter of their council. I noticed that there's only two of them in the case, and I hope they're not as a species of extinction in the council, not as the north-south white rhino. There's only two copies left of that kind.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u113	Both male.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u114	In fact, female in this case, both female, unlike female. The members of both sides are male, so there's nothing you can do about it. I don't know if there's anything we can do about our rhinos here at the council, but we have to hope more people will come to help and support it at least. that this will be discussed in the Committee. Then I also remind others of what has been done here in our discussion that all the members of the Central Party proposed a different form of motion to address the Kingdom radio problem, a very moderate proposal indeed, in our spirit, a proposal based on solution moderation where, starting with at least, people would be given the option that without mention of the radio fee, nose tax, other media. This, of course, involves a certain democracy. The media play an important role in a democracies arrangement, and if we are going to put on this nasal tax, it is democratic that people can have something to say about any financial situation, money to promote the media, but is not forced to pay all of it into a medium that may represent something that is extremely opposed to the individual. It's a democratic proposal. That's not what I'm saying I refuse a suggestion. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son and Brauns Níelsson's son, but I think it's reasonable that these three issues will be discussed in the General Information and Education Committee. Then there are the BBCs, the British national radio, in relation to the State Radio. It should be noted, then, that although the BBC is a lot different than the United Kingdom TV, it has become a bit out of the question about its basic obligation, within the country, at least, of objective. However, it is accepted and is now taking over an effort to correct it. A new director and director of the company recognize this problem and that it needs to be taken and the government does too. Here, however, we have a State Radio, which is infallible, completely infallible by our own standards, in the same way as the government radio in the East Germany back in the day. If something there was found to be not true, the reality was redefined, for the nature of the case in itself was infallible. It should not be overlooked exactly when discussing the state of the Kingdom News with the local media that it is necessary, at least, at the same time. While this is the case, to obey the law, and to fulfill their obligation toward the common people. It's a bit too extreme, or more than that, if one company is to extend over the market, suck much, even the majority, of advertising money, have an edge on government grants, but isn't even going to follow the laws that apply to this institution and the logical support that has been given to the people from the institution that it has to give justice and objective information to the public. Of course, this situation might be compared to another business. The food store is as important as the media, though important as it is in the media. If at one time the situation had been that people could not have access to food, they could have been justified for the State's rights to replace it. However, when others are in that market and are taking good care of providing food, would it be reasonable for the State to continue with the biggest food chain that was also supported by taxes and that she would not have to sell her products at higher prices than others, perhaps even lower because she had this premium of government money? In that situation, would it be good to run a grocery store, a private store? Of course not! It would really be impossible, as if it were difficult and, in some cases, even impossible, to run the private media here in a competition with the state of 350,000 people. Of course, media systems are expensive, although they are not just as expensive as they used to be. It is expensive to run the media, and many have gone through the years because of failure or because their owners had to place extra money in them. They have long tried to cry out for more fair, more justice in their business environment, but the political system has sadly hit a school eye and now seems to be going to solve the situation, so to speak, simply by accepting this media to everyone under state management or state expenses. Madam President. Of course, there is much more I was going to discuss in this case, including calling the church because she was present for a discussion earlier, a fine comparison with the state of the Kingdom Hall. But my time is running out, and I have to see how the debate develops whether I can register again on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u115	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir For a fine talk, Shimmer Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson, gave a wonderful talk. I'd like to ask, though, "We're talking about leveling a competitive position in the media market,'of course it's about it, or should it be about it, how do we do it? " Hv. A senator only mentioned balance of the situation with the foreign - language groups. How does he see that we do? How would this be done? How do we deal with the State TV? What must be done about the Kingdom Television? I realize the Middle Party's proposal that if I remember it correctly, who can support a medium with a part of the radio bill? Is that enough to balance the situation? If he could just explain to you what would be the best solution in this case in order to become a regular game. How do we evenize this game? And how, then, do we picture a future media market?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u116	Mr. President. First of all, the topic centres and the community services, I'm a little afraid that we have no choice but to reduce or eliminate the tax on the Icelandic servers. It is mentioned in connection with this bill, including in the opinion of the greater part, the taxation of the foreign mediators has to be considered. It is only natural to do so if we find ways to do so, but it has proved to be very difficult. In Australia, governments have been trying and working hard on this one, but it has been very difficult to find an effective way to do so. Even if I do not oppose the temptation, I repeat. However, in the meantime, it is normal to balance the competitiveness of these expenditures with the Icelandic medium. With regard to the solution to the Government Radio, and its effect, it is right. In our suggestion that this will be only a part of the wage to begin with, the proposal, as mentioned earlier, is proposed by traditional moderation and is thought to be necessary to give this government room to adapt. It is also possible to continue developing, as well as allow people to support more than one medium. You wouldn't have to put it all together on the same medium. I can see that this proposal could work well with a suggestion. A senator and a what. paritaprevir Kárason Björn's son. I think these suggestions can well be combined in one place, producing one super proposal from these fine groups. Rather, it is important that these suggestions be discussed in the committee before completing the matter under discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u117	President. Thanks for that. I don't think it's far between us and me. paritaprevir Sigmundur's winners, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, how we see the future in this and the possibilities. I agree with what. A senator on the importance of balanceing the position on this market. It is possible to take these steps, some steps, and, therefore, these suggestions exist, to make some adjustments, and to try to establish a natural competitive market for the media. But now we're faced with this - and now I'm going to ask the psychologist why. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, how is it possible that when the proposal to settle this position, more members of the council always defend themselves against this particular government. It is as if it cannot be moved, the only thing that can be added to your expenses, is increasing your activity. Can the senator explain this? What could be the explanation of the apparent need for protection in many people to provide this medium, which, of course, is the elephant in the living room, and everyone knows it? Still, there is some protective coating, a Polish protective coating, and all you think about is trying to expand this elephant and then plan to solve it by throwing some support out to keep something alive. Do the senator and psychologist Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson know any explanation for this?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u118	Mr. President. Now I'm sorry that I didn't come in my ◯twed-suit, in the right costume, but I'll go for the psychology in this. Here comes at least Two o'clock. On the one hand, what may have been more dominant in the past; norstalia, past chronic, affection for this institution. I've had that Nostalia too, and she sleeps a long time in you, and she's still in here. At Christmas you want to listen to State Radio at a certain point, etc. and when certain events are going on. That certainly counts. I loved The Kingdom Radio, and I was its supporters when it was the good old VOLV, so to speak. The other psychological element is fear. Many senators and ministers, perhaps not least the minister of the seminary at one time, I think they often give a lot of time to criticize the State Radio because they assume that they will be punished, not given as much or less good publicity. So, of course, the other side of this psychology is to want to get into the favor in hopes of getting more publicity or positive coverage. Clearly, living in fear of another government is not a good situation. It is not better, though, if all the media and the plutonium players are playing on it. And, of course, they are not lacking here in this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u119	V.E.G. President. We're discussing this problem with the government and the Supreme Court. Secretary of education on the media, bill on support to Special Media. Actually, the media is somehow being spread in this way. Somehow, the children are being stabbed to the chest sugar so they can be set. This is one of many or several of the problems of this government in broad appeals, as was noted a few years ago, which was supposed to be some sort of vent to get new political dimensions, or I don't know what. In fact, one problem after another has been hit by the beaches, and the results are often very poor. You cannot discuss yourself at a reasonable point, and you will have some exercises like this. I could name a case like a series of priming programs, a highland park, ideas about selling in Iceland Bank, the two fishing bills that were here for discussion, 1st. Um., but drown in a committee, since most parts could not agree to discuss the matter further. We remember the discussion of the third energy package, which was actually approved here after a jap and feathers. Some of the government's homes were antiphrased, but some of them chose to do so in time. It's really a problem like that. It has been made clear here that there is no mention of the state radio speciality on the bill, and that is very interesting. There's no future in this bill. It's a Band-Aid. It has a sunset law and expires after some time. They have been worried about it or have suggested that the media will continue to appear on their knees and want this to be extended. I can totally agree with that. There's been a lot in the talks about how this is going down and the elephant has been mentioned in the living room, which is not mentioned in the bill, as I said earlier, but is chosen to be silent, the blessed elephant. That's where I'm talking about the State Radio. The debate over the state of the State Radio has lasted a lot of years. Nothing has been done that way, as I later spoke up, looking for some kind of equality in the media to be useful. This bill will not be right or will contribute to equality. The radio is highly respected, and I have a deep respect for it. It's a rich story. It's part of the national soul. But it's not possible - it's not good for those you care about raising them, so they get fat that they can't move and they can't touch them. I met a fistula written early in spring by Sig Sigurður Jónsson, who bears the title: What's to do with the Kingdom Radio? I would like, by permission of the President, to read this beautiful fistula: The radio is an unusual part of the establishment tree of the state. A voice that is supposed to sound out loud for instruction and pleasure to the public. There are, of course, certain laws that take to distinguish the most distinct factors. They carry the heading ▪ State Radio Law, a media medium in the public area, but there are also other rules that are more strict in many ways than the general rules that apply to the media. In regulations 1st. Among other things, the law on State Radio states that they fulfill their role in professional honesty. It also says that the Government Radio is a source of quality information and a reliable news and media agency. In particular, the Kingdom News is an example of quality and professional work ethic, an assurance of rightness and of careful reporting. There have been rules of conduct and regulations that take these laws into account. Many of this process is appreciated and difficult to see how the law and regulations will be guaranteed. In fact, when recent reports on the United Kingdom Accounting and the Media Committee on The Watchtower are examined, we can see that there are many serious comments that cannot be seen to have been reacted within the house. In the last few years, a large debate has been made following the decision of the Government Radio Commission, which is designed to assess as an independent party whether reporters have followed the accepted customs. Following the decision, some of which were mild and considerate of them, it has been useful to observe the discussion of the members of the Kingdom News. It has thus been observed that among them, no one knows who set the rules of ethics and some chats on Facebook have employees and executives thrown it between themselves and each other and that they place the responsibility for each other. Sometimes it seems that the People of the State Radio think that working at a state agency in the press market has no added value to a public tax agency. Over the years, over the years there has been a high level of government radio activity, and there has been an increase in the situation of the media. Thus, the government radio, with its high financial resources, has become a center for power in the media. In the news field, this is one of the ways that the Agency has taken up a close work relationship with the left - hearted Internet, such as the hour and the core, when it comes to large news media involved in big business or civil - minded politicians. Whether they like it or not, in recent years the plans for Kingdom News have changed, and in some respects the news movement has become more difficult. It is not enough to tell the news, it is also necessary to control the discussion and the story behind the story, the narrator of evil language. Or why does the Agency choose the cooperation of the Hour and the Core, not the Business Journal or the News newspaper? The world of news has changed in a relatively short time. Today, huge amounts of data can be summed up, and at times, the person telling the story has far more data than the one mentioned. Information flows are then directed through leak panels, which, as revealed by WikiLeaks, Sunshine Press Productions, and its service provider, DataCell, at Valitor. The power has shifted, and it seems that the Agency's employees view themselves as a general part of the national agenda. Thus, the special term in Icelandic media history, the dominant servant of the United States, made up of Broddason Broddason, has gained a new meaning. Here was recently quoted in a summary of the Ernir Rúnarsson, which well described the problem of the unique media that follows the state radio superior status of the media market. So now there is good reason to rethink the state of the Kingdom News in the changed work environment of the media, which has now become part of the state's grant. Obviously, it does not succeed in a democratic society that the State, with its media, separates almost all competitors and then puts them in a mechanical setting at the expense of taxpayers. Is that an arrangement that humans want in the long run? Then, a brief section on Kingdom Radio Training and Molding. ▪ It has been shown that it has little meaning to do with discussions about subjects and resources with government radio workers. Normal, reasonable inquiries and complaints are best reported in the dog's best interests. The Agency is acting in its great financial capacity, spending the useful and consequences of money. She makes a very creative gain and continues to run publicity as if she had taken a political stand on them. And there's always that attitude with a left flank. An example of this is environmental concern. It seems that the Agency took on a role in fear - seeking, especially in the children of the country. This tendency to take on child - rearing and modeling roles is also shown in the weird series Kid stories that, repeatedly, have been replaced by pure, mature propaganda and thus enter the work of the teachers of the country! In view of all of this, ask yourself, " Is it not the easiest thing to cut the knot and allow the public to label tax returns to whether people want their radio fees to run to the state radio or to any of the free media, as has been suggested at the General Assembly? ' By doing this, the Kingdom News would inevitably protect all the workers from neutrality in the news. If such a thing cannot be done, a part of the public that doesn't like the left side of the iPad can produce a medium that is more appealing to them. At the same time, one of the Kingdom News aims would be to ensure that most views are heard. The writer ends by referring to a case that we in the Middle Ages have moved on to make a choice, that part of the radio bill, or all that goes to the media that each of us cares about. Is it the vision we have to cut on this knot that needs solving? The solution to this is merely thought to increase equality in mediaism and news transmission, not because of evil thinking on TV, not at all. It's just equal thinking. V.E.G. President. I have considered this in rather short terms and have hoped, as mentioned in previous talks, that the issues that are also on the program and on the schedule. The members of Óli Björn Kárason and Brynjar Níelsson are with us on state radio. They have been requested to go back to the committee so that they can get some nap that may somehow be considered closer to accepting the results.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u120	Mr. President. I'm just going to say something about this media bill. I've ever been in a talk about the bill before, but here we are. The bill appeared a long time ago, probably just last year if I remember correctly, but it's showing up again in the spring months when the sheep is long and short at the end of the council. It's actually a very big deal, preferably because of what's not happening on the bill. The Committee comes from a major part of the General and Education Committee. Signing it, at least Two members of the Parliament, seems to me, the Independence Party, the Chairman of the Committee, and one of them. That is why I found it strange to listen to independence earlier today and tonight. They don't seem to care for the case, so they'll find a number of reasons, and mostly what I was talking about, that the media is not taken whole in the bill, but just that the patches are running the problems of the individual media. The things that may be most important are not addressed, and many have discussed here, but, of course, I am referring to the State Radio. Someone mentioned that it was not mentioned in a paper with the bill or in the committee's opinion. I've not studied it, but I'm just assuming that there's nothing to say about the State Radio -- which should actually be the main ingredient of such a bill when we, the taxpayers of this country, are paying to the State Radio to keep it out of business at least 5 billion a year. Still, the agency is fired on a loss. And hundreds of millions are being added each year. Besides, maybe I'll just come to that later, it'll apply about 2 billion to a commercial market. But the government chooses not to take action. I agree with a number of other members of the council who have discussed this today that it is strange that nothing is put forward here, which is actually the biggest problem, which is the existence of the State Radio. Of course it's obvious, Mr. President, that this has become an absolute time error. The existence of state radio was perhaps. It is necessary 90 years ago to broadcast news to the nationals and to carry out their duties in a public state of public defence, radio news, and so forth in their time. But today, it is easy to get everybody online information. It is everywhere and there is real and accessible in every pocket to get the information that was initially the reason for the establishment of the Kingdom Radio. Let's think about that, Mr. President. It was the evidence; the public defense, the need to broadcast news to all the people of the country. It's different today. Now it's like a stone storm in this community, and it takes 7 billion every year from the state and the commercial market. I would not be surprised if along with this bill, we could see here measures to clear up the country's population in some way, although it was only a step to take this medium of advertising, thus providing space and opportunities for other sources to make a living on this market, even though it was only possible to do so. It may also be that there is good reason to review the state of the State Radio in this changing environment of the media. According to the bill, we're all more and less involved in government grants. Of course, Mr. President, it doesn't work that the state is walking with its media away from all its competitors. Then come the state and place the same party on the throne, where they have to break down and turn for strength, apply for, and return paper and more paper, and soon become in the control of the state. Simpleer than that, it would have been simply to complete this journey, to start by taking the State Radio out of a commercial market, to make room for the private media, and thus reducing their need for the State Preservation that is being measured here. That's about 2 billion, Mr. President. Of course, when nearly all the media become publicized, there will be a distinct risk of consistentness in the market, a characteristic of the media, especially personal exercise. This enables us to see different aspects of life, new ideas, creative pleasures, different attitudes, opposing views, and conflict. Will there be any change in this with the appearance of a government sponsor, especially the media? Will that be the result of this course? What will happen to the freshness of competition? Or you might, for example, do not consider the motion of the Central Party we proposed earlier in the winter, where we suggest that people decide for themselves which media they will strengthen, for example. Only on the tax returns, perhaps the local media in the relevant province or a town where people live or some mass medium that they like and want to strengthen. That would certainly increase competition. The media may try to appeal to their listeners or viewers to get this income. You could think of starting smallly, as we expect in our suggestion, as it might be a quarter or a third of the radio fee. Then you might continue to do so, thus removing this Kingdom medium from the public. Mr. President. I believe we still have a place here to run State Radio... of the absolute minimum size broadcast by radio broadcasts and public defence announcements, weather, etc. This could cost a fraction of what the State Radio is costing today. I think private media might take care of everything else. They could handle entertainment, instruction, and others. The order of the Central Party is in the committee, and I recommend that people examine it with an open mind. She's just taking a step toward reducing the amount of money that has been great to the State Radio. Of course, it's just the laughing thing. It's a funny thing, really, that we here, a 350,000 people, have to run a huge telethon for 7 billion people. I don't know how many employees there are. Maybe some senator can tell me about it, I guess it's over 100, even more than 200. This is a huge battery. It is such an ancient notion that when a television program can be sent out and produced in a very simple and inexpensive way in the hands of a private person, it can be a joke. But we choose to continue on this journey. Of course, here at this council hall, it is absolutely forbidden to speak in this way because of men's churning and turning to the State Radio, or they may be allowed to expect perspire from there because the State Radio, of course, is in control of all discussion. It controls the whole discussion, acquiesces at the press market here, with its strong positions and high financial resources, and with its national obligations. They set issues on a program that many consider to be highly colored by the political interests of those serving there. They choose their opinions - it's very obvious - that they are suitable to shape the discussion, so striking that it's almost laughful. No, Mr. President, we have to wind this off somehow. It's been a long time. Another factor that I was going to mention that this bill is a problem with the media income. Advertisers have been convened, and mainly because foreign chemical and flow groups have been taking on more and more and more of the market. Of course, we are not getting taxes from it. V.E.G. A minister mentioned it when she recommended for the bill that this was a problem that needs to be handled. There has been no more hearing. There has been no hearing that it has not been heard, that it has not taken hold of these things. It says here in the Committee to More General and Education Committee on this problem, with the permission of a president: In this case, the more part takes place that the Ministry of Economic and Economics and Education and Cultures have considered the taxation of foreign chemical and flow groups or the taxation of electronic transactions with foreign sources. The greater part of the claim is, yes, it can be said for quite a while and often - the importance of making that work fast as possible. Yet, any percentage of advertising revenues are evicted from the country and not paid the same taxes and obligations as the pay of those revenues, as if advertised within the country. Of course, this is a problem that needs to be addressed, but there is no solution in these matters, no suggestions have been presented. There's no bill about how the highest level is. Ministers plan to deal with the big problem we live in here that more and more advertising in the media comes through the Internet, their income flows abroad, not in the country, and there are no taxes. It is a reality that the media have had to contend with, and their income has been dwindled. I'm also going to give a little consideration to the subject of the bill. Of course, it is this trend that is seen in many of the world's world's top priority, and it is here that this distribution should be established. There's a three - man distribution committee, and probably an office will follow with employees and more. This is a bit of a sloth, if I might use that word, i.e. There's a bit of a booth around this. So there is once again a foundation problem, setting up a new booth around these distributions. Although the bill is temporary, I suspect, as do many others. Those speakers have come in, they're here to be if the bill turns into law, unfortunately. I'm just going to go to the end if I have time to discuss just the business of the local news media I'm particularly interested in. I really want them to survive all the changes in society in recent years. I think these vessels are gold, every one in his own place, for the inhabitants of the scattered places. The current environment has changed substantially, especially with increasing electrical activity. It would be a lot to regret that, Mr. President, if the local news media were to lose more number than they already have in the past few years. In recent years, many regional media have settled down, and others have made great sails. Both Icelandic and foreign studies have repeatedly demonstrated the cultural and democratic importance of local media. These studies have included: Shows that with the loss of local news media, maintenance of governments and businesses, minorities is harder to promote, and community involvement decreases, which, like elections, decreases. So it would be a real concern if the local news media were to lose the number more than ever. That's why I'm going to make one comment about the minimum number of employees in the bill that is expected to be three. I now believe some local news media don't even carry it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u121	A respectable president. That will take place at the end of this discussion. I couldn't resist the discussion that took place here. I can't say that I'm wild with the results, but that's the way it is, and I think everyone in this room agrees, and even though others are looking for media in Iceland. The media is important, they are important to our democracy. All democracies are essential to having powerful media, in fact, to say free and powerful media. Hence, it is contrary that the State intends to strengthen the media. Still, it is clear to all that something must be done. During the media conference, I often feel that we are more busy shooting down the ideas that have come up with than with the idea of how to fix this crooked position. Of course, there have been some things mentioned in those subjects, but I wanted to say this here, a respectable president, because of the discussion that took place earlier on whether the independents would not approve of this, that, of course, they would write independents at the moment. A top-of-the-art Board of Education is listed on the Committee. And I will come to support this matter. Of course, this is not a solution for the future. This is really just a temporary solution to a very serious situation that I feel is under obligation to respond. But I can totally agree with what has been discussed here that the state of the media in Iceland cannot really be spoken of as being different from talking about the state radio as well. It is basically entirely out of the map to take care of the media and to build better foundations than to look to the Kingdom News. Of course, I would have liked to see us during this terms are effective in explaining the role of the Kingdom News. And when I tell you the part, I mean, I think it's normal that we have state radio but I think it's amazing how big the Kingdom Radio is and how intense it is on this market. I know that below we'll discuss a bill about changing the state radio law that's going to handle advertising and that sort of thing. I have to admit that I'm kind of sorry that I'm not part of that great bill because it looks like I can sign everything there is. It is important for mine to deal with the fact that it is also necessary to take VOLV out of a commercial market and to reduce its activity in the media market. According to that, I think that might have been the solution ten years ago, but I don't think it can be the complete solution today. As we look at how the media are in our neighboring countries, which are still much larger countries and as a result a much larger language area, it seems that there is still a need to take certain measures there to ensure proper publicity. Somehow, in recent years, so much has turned into media policy. Besides the fact that every person has a multicenter in his pocket and can say what he wants to say through social media and in his own area, the advertising market has also completely turned upside down. I know that well, a person who learned it at a university when he made a big effort to make advertising plans and what media would be best for him. Now you can see that huge brands and large companies do little or nothing in the traditional way we know it. Rather, it's overexcited to the social media as advertising, as well as to the power of power. So it is clear that this media market has changed dramatically. Therefore, the action we need to take in order to be numerous. The procedure under which we operate here can rightly be referred to as the Covid procedure. But I agree that, of course, the media was in trouble for Covid, and they started working long before the epidemic. But for some reason, we have not been able - when I tell us, I may have been dealing with my predecessor here at the council, whether they were members of the Independence Party or members of the Superintendent in their own time or in another council - to cover this matter. It just kind of got worse. To this, a respectable president, I intend to support this matter. I think it's an excellent landing for now, but I don't think it's an adequate vision of what kind of environment we have to live in. Clearly, this calls for more and more discussion, even though much has already been discussed. But there is something that we need to correct in the years to come. We need to have a realistic solution to how we live in the media. I've been more inclined to view the tax system, lower taxes, especially the media company with the insurance bill or other of that, as has now been the case. I say for my part that I feel like we haven't spent enough powder to go through it and find out what bad things there would be, if any, before some sort of direct compromise system is attacked, as here is actually being suggested.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u122	Mr. President. I want to thank you. Although I do not agree with the tone of voice, one of the few members of the state radio in the Independence Party seems to appear to be a senator. The case shows that those who receive such strength need to apply for them each year. That's why I'd like to ask. A senator: How can we react? A senator, in effect, tells us that this is temporary when it is assumed that it is a yearly donation that needs to be applied? How does this fit the debate presented, set before us senators? This simply does not work out because it is assumed to be permanent. The Senator is here telling us that she intends to support the production of private media in Iceland. But let us suppose that within six months or a year of age, someone will enter this platform and suggest that all of this be canceled, that personal media teams no longer receive strength based on these laws, how they act. A senator walking through here once this thing's been established? I'd like to know. Then I have to ask the senator about something. Now that it is, and I pointed to it in an antiquated way earlier tonight, that the Independence Party has been conducting the subject of the Kingdom News for 27 years in the last 37 years. Why is that, if Independence talks so much about the need to do something about the Kingdom TV or the size of the Kingdom TV and the traffic and all of this, that it has not been done?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u123	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson for the counter-sponsored. He asks me how I can imagine this is a temporary operation. This is simply because it is clearly stated in the committee's opinion, and I was assured by members of the Committee, and it was published, as it were, that it was a temporary support system valid up to 31 December 2022 due to the media on the news and news sources in 2020 and 2021. That is in the light of what I say is a temporary operation. But I totally understand the point as a dog. A senator is stating here: What happens next? Maybe that's why I insisted that we have to provide a comprehensive view of who should be the future media in Iceland and what environment we want to create for the future. That's an emergency. What we're discussing is not the solution to the future. Someone might think of it well and would just want to see the environment like that, but to me it's not. Hv. A senator also asks: "Why has the Independence Party not changed this because, fortunately, independence has been in the Ministry of Education -- for a long time? I just have to admit I don't know. I don't understand why we're in the position we're in today. Hv. A senator has the advantage over me to have not only sat here but also served in a government that handled various matters. How was the discussion then, and why was nothing done in the history of that government, considering that there are at least two former ministers of the government who have spoken here today about these matters? But I say for my part: I don't understand, I don't understand why we haven't put a more dense frame around the TV and why we've allowed it to grow as it has done in the last round when it should have been done contrary, to move it into less security jobs, only.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u124	V.E.G. President. I would like to thank this direct question, and the answer is simple: It was not the will of the Independence Party to handle this matter. It's just that way. Often, it was discussed, so it is now said. I'd like to ask you what. Senator: I'm not going to do this with the Independence Party and the State Radio, but I'm going to ask the senator about the news that is at the community center on this Euroview thing all that is going on right now. It has been reported that the Kingdom Radio Thunder decided to use the opportunity to use political propaganda in his work there. Now I'd like to make it clear that like a dog. A senator knows, and we've talked about our work on the State Department, we agree, I think, that in the struggles at the waters of the Mediterranean Sea, the Palestinians use tremendous force, way too harsh, that all of mine knows, in fact, where a superpower is in answer to an attack, but in a way that is shocking. Got it. (b) What questions will be considered in the next article? A member of the body of elders, as well as the public radio radio broadcast by all the people of the country, neutral national radio, will take sides in this matter, as it seems to be according to news reports, where these fines will silence criticism in a direct or indirect way in Israel and their contribution in this race? Is it natural for the senator to believe that this is how the Kingdom News was conducted?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u125	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer again. I have to say, I haven't watched community media this evening, so I'm totally broke when it comes to this question from what. Senator. On the other hand, I saw earlier today something at the community media about what happened. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson may be our contribution in Eurovision, in view of the boreness of the fact that a part of our forces had come into some kind of convalescent environment. But, as I say, a respectable president, I'm afraid I can't respond to it. A senator says to me because I've seen nothing of this. I just reiterate that, of course, is my vision, that we should have independent reporters on TV. Of course, the situation at the Mediterranean level is in a special discussion here, and it is important that it be taken away and that it be taken seriously. Of course, there's a big case there, a truce right now. We cannot continue to wake up to the horrible news that we receive every morning about a massive loss of casualties as a result of attacks there. That's where we call and call for a ceasefire immediately. But I don't think I can solve the problem by the waters of the Mediterranean Sea, much less in 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u126	Mr. President. I recommend here to the Commission's list of changes in bill proposals to correct the adjustment of the law on the equipment, method of loyalty and security at work. This case is actually the postmark of what has been called the NPA and was taken out of this council in late 2017, which was reserved for staff rights working at MPA services, especially for work hours and work shifts. The case has been in between parties, i.e. those who enjoy the ministry and those who pay most of it for it, i.e. Company and Department of Social Affairs. Mr. President, it's most recently reported that this call of the case is not coming in for the first time. This is an extension of temporary regulations that have not yet been successful in finishing negotiations. Therefore, the bill suggests that until the end of the year 2021 sources will be removed from the regulations of 53rd par. the application procedures, the manner of loyalty and security at work, by agreement with the labour market partners, allow for a shorter period of rest for personnel who provide services to individuals on the basis of Article 11. legalize the services of disabled persons with long - term needs of support. As the members of Parliament no doubt recall, this has been discussed several times before. The person standing here spoke it over with the highest. Minister on answer when the case came in here. Clearly, the desirable way in which this case has not been completed has not been achieved. It was observed in the treatment of the case that the Department of Social Affairs Committee is dealing with MPA's work hours with the aim of establishing a future solution for the organization of the ministry. That work will be complex, as there are various needs to be evaluated, i.e. both the interests of those who render it and those who accept it. The committee noted that this work is related to an overall review of the laws on the services of disabled persons with long - term needs aimed at completing the next winter. Thus, the majority of the partners focus on making negotiations for the time of MPA services to be accelerated so that no further extension of the provision is required. The earlier reference work contained a provisional factor IX in the law that has fallen out of force with its final extension in 2020. Therefore, consider the larger portion to be the right thing to take up the rest of the arrangement. If a solution is intended to be delayed, the more part might be directed to the Minister to provide a bill for extension before the date of the date of the date of the date of the date of the specified contracts for the user-controlled personal assistance. The majority of them are considered to be successful in extending the value to April 1, 2022. It may be correct, Mr. President, to explain only why it is offered rather than to let it apply only to the events of the year, as the bill expected. That's even. Because, as members of Congress are aware, elections will be held in the fall and there will not be any kind of priority in the Ministry to bring a bill for a year's convention when the council will be working here on budgets and other urgent matters that are a date at annual conventions. Hence, the Committee suggests that the provisional principle will be extended to April 1 next year, including to prevent it coming back this closed window on the set. As men must be aware, employees in this service at the time that has passed the past few years have been doing this work without the reality of the provisional principle. The majority also discussed it thoroughly, and the committee actually agrees that this matter is extremely important and this provision will be closed and the work required to end this important service will be completed so that those who enjoy the ministry will have the security that appropriate legislation guarantees it. And as well as the staff doing this work, they have the rights to which other people live in a labour market and that they have contracts rather than temporary laws. It's under the heading "Why." Parliamentary members of Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, background director, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir and Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir Magnúsdotótttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u127	A respectable president. I'm here offering a proposal for interpretation of a special development programme and a experiment project for the production of drug modes and the use of medicinal products for medical use of cannabis. The General concluded to hide a health minister, in agreement with travel, industrial and innovation ministers, to set up a working group whose role is to create a bill as a home-to-house application for drug culture and for the manufacture and distribution of cannabis for therapeutic purposes. This will be a four - year trial project beginning on January 1, 2022. At the beginning of the 152th legislation, a health minister provides the bill of this material. On January 1, 2018, special development programme and research projects on drug mode culture and the use of medicinal products for the use of cannabis for medical purposes was introduced in Denmark. The project is based on an agreement made at the Danish Parliament on the provision of medical and aging funds on November 8, 2016. Since the creation of hamsters' development program in Denmark, the plant, cannabis sativa, has been permitted to process its products. The practice depends on the permission of the Danish Institute and is an agrienvironmental expert on the agrienvironmental side of the case. Then the State Department will give an assessment of the applicant's ability to provide them with a breeding permit. So according to the system, firms, gardening centres, in Denmark apply for cannabis culture and then further permission for production and distribution of cannabis for use in medical products there, while the concomitant Dama's culture development program was set up in an experiment on the use of medicinal products from the plant. According to the rules of the four-year experiment, physicians in Denmark may test the treatment and prescribe the treatment of patients for whom other medicinal products have not been used. The project is designed to provide a better basis for evaluating the use of cannabis at the end of the period of experience, and from January 1, 2018, Danir, who use cannabis, under the medical advice, has provided an opportunity for reimbursement of drug purchase costs. Government and health policy regarding the presence of cannabis in this country requires considerable discussion and the development of a basis for further research, whether in the production of the cannabis saptiva plant, cannabis idicca plant, or other plants. Transporters'opinion is that a test project parallels that was agreed on in Denmark's mood a frank discussion of the country, an experimental project that will be based on research, and even new opportunities for innovation in agriculture in high-energy areas, to form the Smokeynes. Transporters wish to appoint a service group to be assigned to investigate, discuss, and make the bill of the following: ▪ Definitions allow production, production and distribution of cannabis for therapeutic purposes. ▪ Release allowing. The four-year development programme will be in accordance with the rules of the test design. ▪ A list of the cannabis products authorised to produce and distribute and may be legally prescribed by physicians and pharmacists. ▪ Popular form and application procedure. ▪ The requirements for publishing allow and that growers ensure traceability in both directions, and they can specify the parties they have received from which they have received a source, such as seed and seed. ◯ Treatment and packaging of the manufacture that meets the laws and regulations of loyalty and pollution. ◯ Marketing. ▪ Banking. ▪ Suggest changes in drug and drug laws, No. 65/1974, together with regulations. ▪ Other things to take place on the bill. Transporters of this synonym would like to be allowed on the basis of a specific development and experiment programme to produce active substances of cannabis for medical purposes, to establish a basis for evaluating the use of cannabis at the end of a period of experience that will be four years. This does not suggest a cannabis law or a sanctimonious venerating of cannabis. Transporters feel that this experiment program that Dan's been working for the past few years will be taken seriously, based on their experience and other nations, and established a basis for the finding of cannabis for an experiment. It is bad for people who try to relieve suffering with cannabis to become lawbreakers or to experience such things. Patients should not be advised to be able to access cannabist products to protect those who have a potential to abuse them. A respectable president. Under this council resolution, signed as manager, Ásmundur Friðriksson, and other transporters are sharp. Óli Björn's Kárason, Willelm the Vilhjálmur of Árnason, Bryndís the daughter of Haraldsdóttir, Bribbur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, Páll Magnússon, Jón the Gunnarsson of Gunns, and Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. A respectable president. In view of my stand on issues involving loose conduct in drug and alcohol, many people are likely to think that it is strange for me to take this issue. But it was the sickness and death of a good friend who opened my eyes to this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u128	A respectable president. I hereby present a synonym that deals with a review of the legal and regulations of the marine environment. Transporters are with me. The members of Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, Linika Anna Sævarsdóttir, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Ginsdottsdóttir, and Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson. The suggestion reads: The Council concludes to hide transport and rural government ministers, economic and economic ministers, and marine eco-efficiency to order a team of workers to review the state of state-of-the-artal environment of marine farms, taking into account the payment of fish farms. The task force target will be: a. to cover the total revenues of fish farms and the income to be counted as well as how these income will be divided between the state and the rural population, b. to ensure that rural areas where marine farming is practiced, clear sources to take responsibility for sea farms, c. to ensure that income of such remuneration depends on the needs of rural society and guarantees that sustainable ports and marine farms will be surmounted. A review, which includes a full analysis of the payment of state and rural farms of fish farms and proposals to adapt as clear sources of action pay to meet the necessary services of the state and marine farm society, should be completed and a report presented to the Council no later than at the end of 2021.◯ And here is a report. A recent industry in this country that has been built in the past decade is the Fielder. It is estimated that if production goes to the extent of vehicle tolerance in areas marked by fish fire, the export costs will exceed 65 billion. Investment of tens of billions of dollars is available, and further investments are waiting for further permission to run. The majority of the exports of farmed salmon, while its value in export was increased by 29% per year, and the value of it went to 70% of the export of fuel products during the year. Now the export of farmed salmon yields the second most valuables of all fish exported from Iceland. This article has been increasing rapidly in the past decade, and it can be expected that this industry will provide hundreds of billions of dollars of dollars of money in national preparation. Inspiration needs to be maintained and maintained. This will ensure the growth of the article and the greatest benefit from it. In 2004 a government decision was made that only part of the Eastern, Western, and Eyjafjörður would be allowed on sea farms. The decision was based on the need to protect the year when the wild salmon population would be fished. Since the decision, much development has been made in rural areas in Western Europe and Eastern Europe. Farmers have worked very hard to build and secure infrastructures that need to be there for the growth of their operations. This is a building block of the docks, as well as a structure of population growth and a core of basic services, such as elementary and nursery schools. Farmers enjoy the tremendous power of fish fire. The population is growing, the job opportunities become more varied, and the average age - crumbling trend is changing, with a growing proportion of younger people being seen in rural areas. This has added to the greater responsibilities and challenges to your community. Some communities with reduced population populations are now dealing with extensive growth and cost - making infrastructure. On spring days of 2019, law No. 89/209, take charge of fish farms and fish farms. It estimates that in the coming years, a third of the income of fish farms will flow into the fish farms that rural society can gather for infrastructure. However, it may be clear that the dose will be sufficient for the development of rural development to meet the growing need for growing fish farms. There is little assurance in rural areas on how much income is to be made, since rural communities apply individually to their funds and work hard to estimate their income ahead of time. As this is a new and large sector, there is a great need to review the legal and regulations of the whole payment environment and particularly what has to do with rural areas where marine farming is practiced and clear community sources are used to hire. It must be ensured that income from such remuneration will depend on the necessary activities of the rural community, along with the insurmountability of their rejections and social services in which these activities are practiced. It is absolutely necessary to look at the whole thing. We're talking about a fairly new industry here. It is, therefore, only natural that the rules and laws related to the article in terms of currency and other activities, such as the fire law, need to be generalized. It is important to review this because our communities are involved in this, and their basic services need to be taken into account that this is a growing industry. Although these rural communities have shown a significant decrease, we are now seeing that they are building up again. We are hosting new people, children, and other people who intend to live in those places and participate in the building work there. Then it is the rural society that handles the basic services involved in these people and the industry. Therefore, rural and community must ensure that they get what they have from this new industry, also to help build up the work. This is not only for the sake of rural society or society but also for the industry, since the industry is not there unless there is a strong community that can support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u129	Mr. President. Thank you. Kristjánsdóttir A fine tour and presentation of this synonym to review the legal and regulations of the marine environment. It is fully timely and well - needed. What a joy it would have been if it were. Only then would the premise have been introduced into the council so that it would have been possible. ... tocollarit in the government and make it a reality. You have to tell each story the way it is. Remuneration and other aspects of fish farming are liberating. The Latin has made a big difference for a variety of communities, employment and population development and has had a positive impact on the economy of rural society. A senator came in. Those fish farmers who have been taking root in the communities have been well accepted. The local people have worked hard to strengthen the infrastructure, port, and other factors within them, and the expectations for further structure have been set up in the local article and even full - time. At various levels at the council, legislation has been carried out, legislation has been carried out on the basis of the access of the legislatures, regional restrictions, carrier tolerance, and more than all has been broken and disintegrated, a bit in the silos or compartments. The holes are many, and stakeholders maintain their own affairs, as they normally are. This important industry is virtually unsurpassed by the rules for the largest short-term growth and the request for a stable growth. There's nothing wrong with that, that's normal. While profit is needed, community responsibilities need to be included in the project as well. It's interesting to watch the trend - I think of southern Western Europe - what the development of companies will be like. Will they live up to their promise, will they show community responsibilities in the long run? Mr. President. There is no overall policy development with regard to this massive construction road that has great potential and is now taking a major interest in the economic situation of the nation. What emphasis will we put on these matters? What about the future and the major developments that have already occurred in technology regarding fish farming? Will we continue to authorize a walled sea farm without murmuring or are the authorities going to use it directly, affecting an increasing number of closed heifers in the sea or even in a land country where it is convenient? It costs, but what's the cost? The company says it costs too much, should we accept it? And what's the real explanation, and what's the difference? As the situation exists today, the risk of an open marine hysteria is considered to be severe and to be so severe that it is not acceptable. If the article is to be expanded in a sustainable manner, it must have a consistent plan on how these factors should be ensured and a thorough risk assessment and management plan will be undertaken. The goal must be, Mr. President, that the knowledge is at the point that when new problems arise, experts are well prepared for their efforts. We have a tragic example of the opposite of the country when it takes days for the surveillance and response to get to the scene and see the situation, whether it is an accident, a lice, or a medical condition. That is not convincing in the context of the view that the cooking people themselves see, for example. around the hatching and preparing the reports, but the Rapporteurs are hundreds of miles away and only visible in a static way. The requirement should be unquestionably that they are always there. The article with its tremendous good results may cost it itself, the currency aims for the fact that the article can carry this, that we put our safety first in this regard. In Iceland few or no industry is growing as fast as the fish fire. Every year, new estimates of production are hit, and those who are prophetic say that we are still on the initial stage in the development of fish farmers. In the past ten years, the total quantity of butchered fish has increased eightfold. In 2020, over 40,000 tons were slaughtered in this country. The largest increase has occurred in salmon farming, which is 34 times higher today than in 2010. This is shown in numbers from Iceland's Habitats. According to them, in 2019 fish farms had nearly 500 employees working for fish farms. Business income was about 29 billion dollars. and has more than tripled in four years. Mr. President. Although the debates are fraught around salmon farms, by the time 2,400 tons were slaughtered, it has been a fairly stable source of pink water. Last year, the tons were about 5,000; yet, they had been dragged together since the previous year. In Iceland, for example, the world's largest producer has about 3,800 tons of production every year, which is nearly half of the world's total cooking pink. There was a significant increase in rainbow production between 2019 and 2020. A total of 490 tons were slaughtered in 2020 compared to 299 tons in the previous year or 64%. The number of rainbow productions reached a peak in 2017, from which producers have increasingly converted to salmon farms. Mr. President. Understandably, they worry that fish farming is a bubble that's going to explode. True, we are burned by various adventures, furlooms, grafts, and other traumatic events. We've previously seen up- and down swings in fish farms, certainly it's true. But we live in other times, in a changed world, and in other ways. Fish farming in Iceland today is much different from that of the previous issues of this article. Despite the unworked nature of the book, the work has been added. It seems that we have not learned our lesson, unfortunately. That is why the proposals of the candidates are very important. The increase in seashells is greatest. A decade ago, only a little over 1,000 tons were slaughtered in this country, but last year there were 34,000. The growth has been fastest in the last two years. In 2018, some 1,3500 tons were produced. According to preliminary statistics, the export value of salmon products was 22.6 million in 2020, 22% of the value increase from 2019 C.E., and the export value of fuel products was less than 30 billion. in 2020. These numbers just go up. The high - tech product is also valuable, and weighing a substantial amount of export prices, which are considered to be minor in tons. In the land, fish farms also have their means of fishing in the years to come and have become a reality. We know Smokejanes, we know the South, and we know land in Axura. The opportunity awaits us, Mr. President. A new report by the marine road and agriculture minister reports that there are still great opportunities for growth in fishing, fish farms and related branches, and that there is a great increase in the export value of the sector in the coming years. According to the guidelines detailed in this report, the production of all these articles could increase to about 440 billion by 2025 and 615 billion by 2030. Mr. President. We are a nation of global productions on fish and market growth that even if we are going to add tens of thousands of dollars to our annual production, it is unlikely that this will affect the market. There is a growing number of humans, and this calls for a protein. Thus, the market is growing constantly. Compulsion is disputed, Mr. President, mainly because of the environmental impacts the operation may have, especially because of the risk of accidental accidents and the genetic mixture of natural salmon strains defined in a given way. A major project is to ensure that European fish farms are developing to the safest extent possible from environmental issues, whether in salmon lice, genetic mixtures, fire waste, or anything else. The monitoring and scientific research need to be strengthened, and the currency must be fixed. There is every reason, Mr. President, to believe that fish farms have come to be and that they will become one of a strong source of economic and commercial support. This article has every opportunity to do so. In view of the future, we need to achieve a wide variety of agreements about salmon farming, both from environmental and regional sources. We have an important responsibility to strengthen the level of law and regulations, monitoring and requirements for the manufacturer so that this work can be guaranteed for the long future, and that the salmon will not always be a threat to environment and nature. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u130	Mr. President. This proposal for interpretation of food production and education malls in the A year-city area is moved by members of the left movement to a green supply. Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé was our first traveling overseer with us five other members, me, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Bjarks Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Lilja Frans Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Ólafur Steinunn Gunnarsson, and the Stonenar of the Þóra's Árnadóttir. I began to have a story on the subject, and I started to explain what this suggestion is about. It simply deals with the conclusion that the General Assembly would hide the government to set up a team that offers suggestions on how to establish a series of national food productions and educations related to it in the City of Aarhus. In the line of work, the representatives of the National Farmers Association of Iceland, the National Parking Guarantement School for Smoking, Land Health, and the Santanian Farmers Association, as well as the proper practice of counseling. It will be agreed with the University of Agriculture of Iceland, the University of the Southlands, the University of University of South Africa, the University of Iceland, the University of Reykjavík, the University of Akureyri, the University of Hólar, the College of Fish Technology, the Association of Employment, the National Association of Iceland, and others involved. The General Report will be submitted on the subject by December 1, 2021. I'm going to go back to the report. A global epidemic and climate crisis have shown the need for every community to be the most sustainable. It is therefore important to make the most of the opportunities presented here for domestic food production through sustainable development and also to help fight climate change. In this context, it is important to promote and strengthen activities in the sector and to promote education in areas close to production. Food policy for Iceland to 2030 was adopted in December 2020, including the turnaround. to make full use of the opportunities of domestic food production. Food production is intended to be free of carbon fractions by reducing emissions and increasing binding. Is this also important, since demand for wholesome foods produced by small carbon tracks has increased. The aim is to provide a simple stream of information on food, where it is made, how it is made, and how it is affected by climate. In addition, the factor recommended must not be underestimated as the most potent factor in domestic food production, which is the menstrual economy. It even causes them to suffer. Biodiversity becomes easier, transport lines shorter than that, a larger proportion to production of each product, etc. and less carbon footprints. Mr. President. Southland is a flourishing food industry, with a large proportion of the EU's vegetable production being carried out, end up in a uniquely terrestrial environment and short on the main market. There, there are plenty of grain and opportunities to promote it. Lactation is powerful in the region. There are new articles, such as land farming, which, in fact, should be classified as agriculture. Not to be overlooked in this case is the proposal of the Ministry of Agriculture and the highest level. Agricultural policy minister, as it were, must be described as having a good relationship with this matter. However, it is clear that governments will have to improve their goals in food policy, with the need for science, evolution, and food production education. In the South, there are some of the activities that need attention when it comes to food education. The gardening school that smokes has been rocking Icelandic garden for decades, and now they are sharing in the South's High School for Education at Selephoss. It is designed to make use of the facilities and equipment of smoking in connection with a food mall. Gunnar's hole has a wide range of research and culture that are needed to become part of a partnership over the mall when it is established. In view of land farming, cohesion with the University of Fish Technology in Grindík en South Coastways and increased technological advancements offer a wide range of opportunities for future land development, both learning and implementation, from South Africa to Southnes. In addition, there are already a variety of activities related to science in the field. Food agencies have, for example. Headquarters at Selephoss. I would also like to mention improved ports, both in the village and in the West, which are also important for the export of food, both fish and fish to be mentioned. Mr. President. It is possible that any cooperation could take place on the Agrienvironmental cluster established in 2014 on the initiative of the Farmer Association, which aims to provide common interests and to introduce the wide range of activities related to agriculture, share knowledge, contributes to development and innovation, contribute to an informed debate on the marketing of agricultural products and food products, and contribute to the development of valuables across all levels of food production and other agricultural production. The task force considered this particularly, but the community will share in it. The new provision of food policy for Iceland is based on five key factors: material creation, consumers, shape and safety, environment and human health. The importance of food safety, food security, and the restitution system I mentioned earlier is then highlighted. The aim is to provide guidance for decision making in order to promote increased food production in the country, provide food security and improve the well - being of the people in harmony with the environment and nature and, therefore, the most sustainable agriculture. The 2030 target for which there has been an increase in GDP, product and services development and innovation is set up, that knowledge, ability and interest in food have been increased in all learning levels, that education to consumers and the relationship of diet to public health has been increased, research and development will become a powerful back product of food production and cooperation between institutions. So these are goals set out in food policy and should be reached 2030, i.e. In less than a decade. In order for these goals to be achieved, it is essential that research and education be developed in this area and food production gases are an important tool for doing so. The work that is already being done in many places needs to be done. In order to improve the growth of grain for human consumption, which is of utmost importance to strengthen the country's food security, regular development tests need to be performed. The work cannot be obtained by innovation, where the new sensitivity of the agricultural tests is limited and should be considered as basic research, which would then be funded as such by the government's funds. More recently, though, the area of the year is much better suited for the cluster as to land options and practices that are already in the neighborhood. Also, it is important to increase the percentages of college students in South Africa and rural college is the best way to do so. The number of people in the area has increased considerably, and all infrastructure is in place for the potent activities of a food - producing cluster being proposed here. Finally, there are other aspects of older food production in the South and South, South East, and indeed all over the country. I am content to remind me of the effort already in making the nation's waste system fully acceptable to all aspects of food production in the country. This is not a small part of the purity of Icelandic agricultural products. Mr. President. I am content with this history of this need and of the progressive interpretation of our six members of the left movement.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u131	Mr. President. New creations need a wide range of nutrients, both materially and mentally. New births will be viewed as a permanent challenge, not as short - term measures to address the crisis. The long - term support environment must be met. This is especially true of funding, funding, contributions to index funds, and tax incentives. Thus, a key element of exported intelligent equipment is needed. In addition, we know that money and high interest are the cause of rhythms that test all companies as hard as possible. The best solution is to pick up Euro instead of the crown. That feature, however, will be of no further discussion at this time. Mr. President. I recommend the bill of the House of Development, which aims to provide more firmness in the capacity of innovation and wand companies to get financial support for growth. With a section four. track No. 37/20, for the change in various laws to meet the economic effects of a pandemic crown virus, new provisional regulations were added to the law No. 129/1997, the related insurance of pension rights and the operation of pension funds. It included the temporary access of pension funds to hold up to 35%, instead of 20%, share certificates or items in funds for their collective investment or private department, although never exceeding 1% of their total resources per budget of the common investment according to the paragraph. This source covers a common investment as an investment in small and medium-sized enterprises on the basis of Article 3. Acting on support for innovation companies. Solutions in the funds should be performed first after five years from the start of investments. That authority applies to January 1 in 2025. Mr. President. This provisional principle was one aid in improving the environment of innovation in the country, e.g. by facilitated by the establishment of innovation funds, in particular the so - called index funds. With the change, three pension funds can have access to funds instead of five previously, and the change makes it easier for funding such funds and supports other goals to improve innovation's investment environment here. In this regard, there is a Kría ◯ sceptre and innovation fund set up by law No. 65/20, and just got involved. Victoria is intended to invest in index funds, such as those in the pension budget, according to the bill that is discussed here for a clear source of investments. Mr. President. This bill suggests that a warrant laid down in the provisional provision previously mentioned will be made permanent, though by change. In this way a pension fund will be permitted to own up to 35% instead of 20% of share certificates or items of a common investment or their individual department. This source covers a common investment as an investment in SMEs only under the legislation to support innovation enterprises. The change is from the provisional obligation to forbid investments to exceed 1% of the total stocks of pension is canceled. In addition, pension funds take up regulations in their investment policy about the high proportion of their assets in such funds. This will also include measures that the solution may be administered first after five years. Mr. President. We're dealing with projects that are more often than not long. They rarely return income that spend a long time at the expense of their business. As a result, many support and support systems have been developed. That is true here in our country as well as in our most competitive countries. In particular, these include Technologies and Research Funds. So - called indexes, or English capital meetings, are a form of investments which invest in wands and innovation companies. They tend to specialize in different levels of corporate development, but also by individual sectors. Science funds differ from other conventional investment funds in that the head of the funds has the main investors, is the shareholders of the fund, and has much more access to business practices and policy plans for the sceptres they invest in than in the general population. Mr. President. It is important to create a setting for sceptical and innovation companies, which are consistent with science, technology, and intelligence, that their potential for growth is not limited because of lack of financial resources. If that is the case, direct support in the earlier stages is likely to occur, i.e. Various forms of strength will be replaced. For this reason, it is important that in the years and decades, as many of the indicator funds grow. It is obvious that this may be the country's Pension Funds that have an important function and have already done so. Mr. President. The discussion of temporary matters applies to January 1, 2025. After that, the deposit of the pension fund falls back to normal and it is no longer enough for three pensions to turn into funds. They'll have to return to at least Five. This will eliminate the benefits of the provisional principle, i.e. to support the improved investment environment of innovation in this country. Therefore, it is important to make it permanent that a pension fund may have up to 35% of share certificates or items in funds for a joint investment or their individual department instead of 20%, which is the principle and will be restored when the provisional principle goes down. Mr. President. It will take a market for specialized funds ever to adapt to changing regulations. Preparation for an institution of such a treasure will take some time. Lasting sources add to the positive effects and contribute to the variety of new funds. Directors who intend to establish such funds need to see the possibility of a longer chance. It is often seen to develop more uniform funds from the same operator when a project in which the first fund has invested has reached the point where it would be reduced to the sale of property and investments. Such an arrangement is important to contribute to the more practical management of such funds. Mr. President. Today, there are 21 people in the country who are operating at a pension fund. They differ in structure and size. Then their investment policy is also different. When it comes to funding a common investment, it is clear that 1% roof may be very inhibitory. The desirable size of such a trust fund is at least 51⁄28 billion. For this reason, the roof should be dropped, but rather it is recommended that pension funds be given in their investment policy how much of the funds of pension can be placed in such funds. Mr. President. Transfer limits are unnecessary and do not have any visible material purpose. Science funds are more often, but not too limited to offer investors a solution, which usually takes place around the end of the year. Ten years to build a business on the foundation of innovation. The money fund has a defined lifetime designed to give investors certain assurance that they will be sought to sell possessions and return the funds within a given time period. A share in such funds is generally handed out, and the market is in place. Special inhibitions of solution are designed to limit the effectiveness of the target. Such limitations do not support the efficient property management of pension funds, which are exactly long-term investors. Mr. President. In his review of April 29, 2020, about the bill that became legal and set up this provisional law, the National Association made meaningful comments on that requirement. A bill has taken note of what is presented here, and it takes a good deal of this comment. Mr. President. This bill that I have now recommended is one of the two prime members of the House of Congress - a series of restorations to these currently existing subjects in the council. They are both designed to promote innovation and to increase awareness. Both include the staging of temporary regulations. The second bill measured here at the council on March 16 of the past is now being discussed in the Economic and Business Committee, where it is assumed to support the rise in roofs and reimbursement rates due to development and research costs. Mr. President. New births are necessary for us. We know that in the right setting, powerful corporations can grow up worldwide, driven by intelligence, create valuables for exporting and high - paying jobs for skilled workers. These enterprises need to be increased, and their structure needs to be accelerated as much as possible but at the same time ensure that, as little of their activity goes to other countries, it will be guaranteed. In this way, there are a wide range of economic life in Iceland that creates prosperity and provides resistance to tragedy in individual economic areas. Mr. President. I suggest that the case be referred to a financial and business committee for further discussion, expecting it to receive a physical treatment and a later course here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u132	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend a bill to correct a adoption law, No. 130/1999, with subsequent changes. With me on the case, there's a problem. The members of Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Linika Anna Sævarsdóttir, and Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson. The piece is short and smooth. These are, in fact, minor legal adjustments, but reasonable in my opinion and necessary, perhaps not for the masses, but for those in this position, these changes are very important. The bill suggests changes to between 2 and 25. No. 130/1999, with subsequent changes. The change is that a person who has been married or married to a parent but who later broke up with his or her mate may wish to adopt the child without breaking up with the other parent. It is also suggested that a child or an ideal child be adopted by an individual who has died. This is the replacement of another parent, i.e. that a child has a legal alliance with two parties. The objective of the bill is to ensure that a candidate who has raised a child can obtain a adoption permit despite her separation or marriage. As is the case today, a person who has raised a child for many years cannot apply to adopt a child if the person has separated from his or her marriage to the other parent. They may have other children together, and the one wishing to adopt would want to ensure that a child who has been raised by that one has the rights and rights of his other children. According to current law, a person wishing to adopt a child who has been raised by the applicant can apply for adoption as an individual, as per 4 mg. 2. c., but it has the right effect of adjusting relationships with both blood parents. V.E.G. President. I've finished my case. Well, it's been a long time for the council winter, but I hope we have time to handle the case on a committee and possibly settle it here at a council hall for the summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u133	Mr. President. I recommend here for bill to correct the change in state radio law, media in public, No. 23/2013, clientship. The movers are two, but as far as I'm concerned, that's why. paritaprevir Brunes the Brynjar of Níelsson. The bill suggests changes to the State Radio law, No. 23/2013, which includes restrictions on the arrangements of the State Radio Advisory. The objective of the bill is to balance the competitiveness of the individual media to the state - of - the - state media companies. With 2 st. The bill is presented with a new provisional directive suggesting that first the Kingdom News will be banned from commercial sales, that the ratio of advertisements should not exceed five minutes per broadcast time, that the program should be broken by advertising, and finally proposed as an option, as agreed in Article 2. The bill. The limitation between January 1, 2022, and December 31, 223. The Kingdom Radio contest of a commercial market will then be stopped at the beginning of 2024, as mentioned in Article 1. The bill. By taking the Kingdom News out of a two - step competitive commercial market, the government of the Kingdom News offers an opportunity to adapt business to changing circumstances. If it is considered necessary to meet a government company because of lower net incomes, financial resources have provided an excellent way of doing so. Transporters believe that by being drawn out by a competitive advertising market, the company will be able to make room for the cultural roles it is intended for by law. The freedom of the media in Iceland is not divided. At the same time as the competitive situation is misdirected by the legal protection of the state radio, private media are faced with the intense efforts of international corporations into the advertising market. Free media are essential for open democratic discussions and provide government, employment, and society's main institutions with need. The institutions and businesses of state and rural society are in many ways competitive to private people. There is evidence that in recent years public members, especially public societies, have intensified their competitive activities. When the government competes with private business, it is important to ensure equality in the best possible way. Rules must be clear and marked on the scope of public competitiveness. Public agreements in a competitive market can lead to harmful, self-involved business out of markets, even leading to monolification, and in this case, national isolation. Under such circumstances, new partners are made more difficult to get a market. It may be reasoned that government competitiveness can counteract the goals of competitiveness, which is promoting active business competition. Officials often get a head start on the basis of the exclusive law. An example of this is the government's media operation under the hat of the TV ohf. Obviously, government competitiveness has a major negative impact on the business and economic affairs of independent media, most of which are living. Limitations in the environment and later the ban on advertising competitiveness and cost should be otherwise significantly improved by the independent media, strengthened their management base, made their environment more healthy. According to the 2019 U.S. Radio account, the income of a competitive operation came at a rate of 2.2 billion. On January 1, 2024, it is hard to believe that the income the government has earned from advertising sales and option would be unsatisfactory to the independent media. However, it can be expected that the income of the independent media will increase substantially and much more than expected in the education and cultural bill for national support to the private media, which is 367 at the current legislature. Transporters believe that it is more reasonable to strengthen the position of the unique media by severely limiting government competitiveness rather than developing a complex system of compromises and government ethics. This contributes to greater health in the media market. Mr. President. After this discussion, I suggest that the matter be sent to the General and Education Committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u134	Mr. President. In fact, I come here to express support for this matter rather than to take a conventional answer. I didn't think it was a reason to give a special talk about it. I'd like to welcome this matter to the two members of Congress, hoping that there will be a rapid and thorough discussion of the General and Education Committee, and a discussion with the current case referred to back to the committee, i.e. The so - called media language or debate. But I would like to ask. A member of Parliament whether it is really safe to expect that the National Radio to face a potential loss of income simply by bringing in the sails, but rely on the risk of paying extra taxes on the inhabitants of the country to obtain the possible loss of income. Another way is by placing the Agency on budgets so that it is actually donated in each budget. At that time, members of the Parliament can decide whether it should be made up in this way or simply to make up for the demands, not to be abnormal, that the Agency will respond to reduced income by some means. I also wanted to add a question to the question. A senator and she are not the only one with the highest standards. A minister of education is somehow sharing money, not defending the privates. The same can be said of money, I'd say 500 million. In the second consecutive year, a student who is to be a student of the Kingdom Schools While not $, for privates who are competing for the same kind of business and who are competing with the State School. Doesn't have to deal with this, either. Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u135	Mr. President. The reason we suggest on the bill that this transition takes place in steps is to give the State Radio space, the government of the TV, and the executives, to re shape the business. Of course, it must also be a part of the lawgiver's responsibility to consider a legal set of matters. It may well be that the income that the Kingdom News truly earns from all Icelanders, individuals 16 years of age, and to 70 years of age and all the law is not enough for the work that men consider necessary to be maintained. And then we can talk about it forever. Then there is the financial authority, the lawgiver here, that needs to consider it and have this space of time to do so as there may be a way to shape a new direction for the State Radio. In recent years, however, I have come to believe that it is wise, or may be reasonable to argue that the State Radio is going to a fixed budget, as it was earlier, that it is a fund from the financier every year to support the activities of the State TV on the basis of each service contract. We can get examples for other cultures here, such as the Symphony Orchestra, National Theater, etc. At that time, the state of the Kingdom Hall is similar to that of its institutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u136	Mr. President. Thanks for the answer. This is so that there have been some suggestions on how to deal with this problem, i.e. That there is a government company that is so powerful in the general market that private media drivers are under attack. That has even been true. They have been submitted and discussed in the General and Education Committee of the Central Party proposal, the first transporter has a problem. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólafsson, that people can take care of the radio or nose tax and choose where they go, to which media they go. Then there's this fine suggestion. Senators are here to make a recommendation. I think it is important to discuss these issues now on the committee and try to reach some conclusion, for it is simply not acceptable to offer some kind of support to the media that the problem is that it is the issue of government rivalry rather than that it is necessarily a lack of money to these media. I'm just celebrating this case. A senator and his colleague, huh? paritaprevir Brubbur the Brynjar of Níelsson. The problem, of course, is that in recent years the State has shown a considerable intensity of my knowledge in dealing with private people. It is not enough to mention, e.g. in the medical field where private health care professionals have been hit, especially this terms, I would like to say, on the basis of the highest standards. A health minister for private business. Then I'd like to mention again the fact that there are now some 500 million, or to be given, to the state school while all those who serve in the private sector, whether it be a course or a study for a long time or something that falls under that hat, schools, will not get a cent. And now, it's supposed to be shared with the extraordinary media from the government's pocket, and it's not taking over the big problem that is competitive.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u137	Mr. President. The report on this bill shows that it is the assessment of transporters that, in general, public competitiveness has increased, the state has been moving onto the handle, continuously competing with private people. We can look to the health system, but we can also look to small independent employment drivers who are running vans and trucks and then to the loss of the state company that invades their markets to taxpayers. I've been doing this more than once and more than twice. I also read a fine article, and now I don't remember this exactly at the moment, but there was the guardian of Progent, who is one of the private agents who exactly offers study, including. In an article in the business magazine, if I recall correctly two weeks ago, summer study that it was the second year in a series of categories of funds being assigned for a good cause, i.e. To promote summer education, but it would be taking place in a way that would actually be undermined by private agents offering the same degree as salaries of the government business. Now I think and hope, and I think I have something to do with it when I say that some mistake has taken place. It must be that the minister or the Ministry of Education reviewed this position because others are unfair, unnatural, and unhealthy.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u138	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a synopsis of the construction of a tunnel between Eelfafjörður and Skútland. Transporters are the one standing here. Councilmen Elíasdóttir Frifjörg, daughter of Elias, Ólafur Ölfur Ágústsson The suggestion reads as follows: The General concluded to hide transport and local government minister to provide space for the development of the Slyslavian march between Eelfafjörður and Skullfjörður in Isafjörður in the current transport programme of 2020-22034. The tunnel will be expected on a workin' program. The secretary will submit a report on progress by the end of the year 2021.◯ According to the proposal, a conquistador of the same material has previously been proposed by the town's deputy vice - general, Arna Lára Jónsdóttir, who is now reassigned. It was at the 150th legislature. The proposal suggests that transport and local government ministers will provide sufficient space for S such as the Eelfjörður and Skullfjörður in Isafjörður to be defined as a practical procedure for transport in 2020-2034 and that, when a thorough investigation and preparation of the construction of the tunnel, it is to be completed. A successful transport program covers the next 15 years and is updated and reviewed on the basis of the strategy that has already been adopted at the General Assembly. As a result of the transport program it is also presented with a plan updated to the next five years, 2020,2024, which was adopted at the end of June 2020. There is no comprehensive program for geographing in Iceland and thus no anticipated Sunsportways. On both the north and south of the West, there are other urgent land tunnel projects waiting to be processed. The General agreed on a four-year transport programme for 2015◯2018, at the 145th legislature, to provide funding for the preparation and investigation of the Sinsportways in 2017 and 2018, but nothing has happened so far. The generation of spray transfers is very important based on localities, but also on safety reasons. The Sleek Bay is defined as 22 avalanche roads, and there are numerous examples of avalanches and snowstorms on the slope. The road and the sea floodhouse of the Weather Room have carefully watched all the signs of danger and have issued warnings and, if so, shut the door. In 2018, for example, more than 60 floodwaters fell on the road count of the road, but it is noted that many warnings and closings are issued every winter to prevent accidents. The local people are increasingly concerned about their safety and have now adhered to the organisations ▪ Deathtics, the Slyslíkískjörður, where opinions and instructions and special notifications are being sent to members. That's the conversation right there. It is intended that this will be a stage that is further pressured for improvement. During the winter, the way through the slopes of the church and the Slysavík is brought into the depths of the deep transport of the peoples of the north in the West. Some assessments have been made in recent years of possible improvement on the way to spray spores. This is mainly referred to the underlined workgroup on the Deepland Security Road between Bolungarvík and Bolungarvík from November 2002 as well as the report on the risk of avalanches and rock crashes between Susavík and Bolungarvík. They're made up of Iceland's Weather Office and Harpa Grímsdóttir and are in full effect. The second article concludes with the permission of a president: Therefore, the current situation of this report is that for those who travel through Opheid or S such aerosol slope, there is a low risk of avalanches and rocks near double the annual mortality rate in traffic compared to the average mortality rate of the Icelanders in traffic. This must be considered unacceptable on the basis of the criteria described in section 1.5 on acceptable risks due to surface flood and stone crash. True, it is now out - of - date that we have acquired a fine tunnel, Bolungarvík. It can be claimed that the path to the Sylvester is one of the most dangerous highways in the country, if not the most dangerous. Northbound Westerns are one of the jobs and habitats. According to a workaholic survey conducted in 2017, nearly 30% of workers in Susavík attend to Isafjörður, and this proportion is growing. Although several companies have activity in Susvík and the rest of the urban states on the north side of the West. The inhabitants of Susavík attend most of their basic services, to form a health service, to Isafjörður. It may then be noted that the Sisvíkhrep and Isafjörður farms have recently sent a collective opinion to governments, where the result is that this project should be a priority in the region on transport improvements. As we have considered above, the Southports, tunnels between Eelfjörður and Skullfjörður would include a fundamental means of transport to the inhabitants of both the Sisvík and the inhabitants of the north of the West, as well as to the rest of them. This is especially true during wintertime, when the road through the slopes of the church and the Sways of the Deep is one of the main means of transportation to travel. Mr. President. I have now made an explanation for this synopsis proposal. In Iceland, however, there are probably ten tunnels, according to road construction data, and it covers nearly 60 miles [60 km] of our highway system. Of course, they date from time to time and have virtually been inhabited in the vast majority of the republican era. All citizens and governments are increasingly concerned with the demand for comfort in driving, shortening their movements, and at the same time maintaining safety. In addition, environmental factors are an important factor that is becoming more and more perplexing. Shorter trips, smoother routes, less pollution. The newest tunnel the Westerners enjoy is an animal tunnel. Their actions are related. On the south side of the West, however, transportation projects on the government continue to cry out. Local residents believe that the most important area in the West Pacific business is digging tunnels below Half-dan and Mikladal. A total of 8.9 miles of tunnels. In contrast, tunnels under the British Valley and Botnshök, nearly 25 years old, are 9.1 km. After reaching the south side of the West, a tunnel around the Rock's neck is not likely to have to be examined. After that, the West will be quite clear. Mr. President. During our journeys through the country, we become the road users of the river that conditions differ greatly in tunnel conditions, both markings, descriptions, and instruments of security, e.g. Fire extinguishers and emergency phones, though they all seem to be there, especially in the new tunnel. In the case of safety situations in each land, it appears to be somewhat different. Just a year ago, in an inquiry, the secretary of transportation determined that conditions would be quite practical in Iceland's tunnels and were constantly being replaced. However, reasonableness must be exercised. Of course, the tunnel varies from different times in which requirements differ from those that may have been set. are today. Diversity in a tunnel is growing. Mr. President. As I mentioned, earth's design demands continue to change, and technology launches. It may be difficult to meet all new and updated demands in many older halls designed at that time by living standards during the period of construction. We know some examples of a single tunnel that is often under intense stress because of increasing traffic. Mr. President. The oldest tunnel in Iceland is from 1948. It is the Eaglenes tunnel, in the stream of Aluminium that we now deal with. A new tunnel has to be made to Skulls' fun. There are no new tunnels built in 1948. However, they are fine and are driving there for a short while. Those who suffer from claustrophobic pain are safe because they are only 30 m long. The tunnels built at that time were not an undisputed piece of construction, any more than the work of some humans at that time was costing 750,000 dollars. This took a lot of money and reduced human blood regarding other projects for a long time. Whether it was wise to do this rather than adjust the roads on both sides, however, they were in a very difficult situation, as if roads have generally been a short time in the West, even though much is getting better, and large gaps are being reached in the last few years. Mr. President. Just at the end, it may be normal to mention Bolungarvík because it is important. They were opened in 2010, are extremely important to the area, and open up the cooperation of the local communities, or even united. One reason for this is good transportation. A tunnel between Skulls and Eelfjörður ground should be able to pay for a larger and more powerful community, even three independent rural communities. Or that people may think even more deeply and in even more unity, as we are considering at the council at the present time. Mr. President. I'm not going to keep this all out of the way, but I'm hoping that this Senate resolution proposal will be passed on to the environment and transport committee, and that's where I'll be well informed, and hopefully we'll pay all the way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u139	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a synopsis of the refurbishing of the Ural by private hand. With the rest of the people standing here, there's been a delay. Councilmen with me: Ásmundur Friðriksson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Jón Gunnarsson, and Vilhjálmur the Árnason. The proposal assumes that the Council of the Council of Transport and District Ministers will begin to reinvigorate the road over Krug and make it a road that can be held open to a large part of the year by personal action. Ministers are involved in this intention to investigate environmental impact through the social and economic impacts of the project, including for tourism, urban development, and nature protection. Similar cases were given at 145, 148, and 149, but they did not succeed. The proposal suggests that the road across the Rock will be renewed and laid on a personal wearer so that most of the year can be kept open so that further traffic can be used in the area by more tourists. The process does not affect the priorities of transport. Safety, local and environmental considerations provide support for the proposal to renew the Kjall Road. Then, in addition to the importance of improving the road transport between parts of the country, the organization has given rise to a large stream of tourism during the past few years, but the organization has severely criticized the prerogatives that the tunnel has not received a road pattern in the last transport program. It must also be fully established that transport improvements have a positive effect on safety, closer society, and economy. When preparing for a renewal of the road, it is important that all surfaces of the matter be thoroughly identified, including how best to finance the project and whether it would be wise to view the arrangements for the construction of the Halfhjörður tunnel with the survival of Spalar Hf. as an example for this assignment. In recent years the possibility of shortening national routes with improved highland roads has been clearly discussed. with the goal of further linking the largest settlements in the country. A significant research work has been done because of a few of the ways in which the highlands, such as the explosions, the Mountainbacks, and the egg, provide a large amount of data. In spite of this, the ancients of highlands have been subversive over the past few years and are more classified as paths than roads. The agricultural road has been an important transport between the northern and southern parts of the country, and in spite of the high structure of the ring road in recent decades, the importance of the Kygg road is still high. However, the road has not been held as necessary. So here it is suggested that the road across the Rock will be renewed and a road that can be held in large part of the year and that the project be carried out as a private project. During the past ten years, the growth of tourism has increased from half a million to about 2 million in Iceland, according to Isavia's passenger forecast, and the number of tourists from a travel agency. Transporters believe that despite the events related to the pandemic Covid-19, there is a rapid return to international tourism. The importance of the prepandemic industry had become very high. Visitors from tourism covered 42% of Iceland's total currency income in 2017. Clearly, a growing number of tourists are testing the interior of society, so it is important to consider investments in that area. Tourism has become a key issue in the business of the people of the country. The number of tourists in the winter season has increased as well, and the number of tourist times has increased since now throughout the year. Thus, seasonal fluctuations have been leveled, but there is still much work to be done. Studies have shown that large numbers of tourists travel only in the South and southwest corner of the country despite the fact that natural bulbs and nearby tourist attractions are being found around the country. By means of a full - year journey across the Grand Prix, it is possible to cut to the top of national corners, making it easier to travel to the Northland and across the highlands, thus opening up the possibility of a new tourist attraction. This gives other opportunities to experience its highlands and nature and wides that are unique in European standards, and it is clear that they have a great attraction for tourists coming to the country. This will also open the possibility of shorter rings. The rise in tourists and the increase in rental cars in recent years contributes to the importance of attacking the construction of Kjalway. The rental cars play an important role in the distribution of tourists across the country. Transporters of this proposal suggest that by improving transport between the southern and northern regions of Kokt can be expected to be more efficient with the use of various infrastructures invested in and that the areas on both sides are stronger. Before the pandemic, the number of rented rental cars exceeded 25 thousand and more of the foreign tourists, about 60%, rented a rental car, thus traveling through the country. The number of international tourists driving on rental cars in this country is estimated to be about 20% of a mile (1 km) and may be expected to increase the proportion. The largest part of driving on a new Kjal Road would be expected to be related to foreign tourist travel, either by rental cars or by bus. In the context of the sections, it may be true that 2018 hired 60% of foreign tourists to rent rental cars in Iceland, a ratio of 37% in 2011. That's a big change. This means that 2011 may have been about 150,000,200,000 foreign tourists driving through the country in rental cars, some 1.3 million 2018, seven years later, so the number has increased by about eight or nine times the time. Then comes the chapter on regional policy. Better roads on the high land not only encourage tourism in individual areas but also give each member of the country a better way to strengthen the rest of the country with increased cooperation and competition between individual settlements. Instead of being the only available means, the ring would open up more options with shorter rings, which could be suitable for more people and tourism and other occupations. And here, in this context, it speaks specifically of northwest. In the past few decades, the northwestern country has lost its balance in economic and urban affairs, and its population and work have continued to decline. A Kettir's health would strengthen the work of the part of the country, as well as for which tourism can make a major difference when it comes to maintaining minimum services in small settlements where the population does not depend on it on itself. Then there is a brief section on environmental and safety. A new and improved road above the Kew would improve traffic security in the highlands and reduce the risk of accidents. The current state of Kjalway is unacceptable, and the road is hazardous to traffic, causing a great deal of trouble in driving cars. At the same time, improved transport in the highlands could be expected to reduce the pressures and maintenance needs in other transport areas. Police and rescue teams would have a better way up to the highlands to monitor and monitor extra traffic through it and would use Urgs as an emergency connection between northern and southern countries. Improvements in Kjal Road would also strengthen natural protection in the highlands. Extremity - driving in the highlands - is a ongoing problem that threatens nature in many places, and survival is needed. It has been noted that poor roads in the highlands, and many vague trails may contribute to road transport, so it is better to have well - built roads above the highland so that traffic can be better controlled and maintained, thus reducing nature. It is also important that the road does not fall well in the environment and is not obvious or built up high from the landscape around it. Clearly, it is difficult to keep the Kjal Road open all year around and particularly in current conditions, but by better means it would be possible to extend the period that can be brought up to the highlands, especially for people who travel on cars. At that time, the movers see the option of connecting highlands and lowlands together in one place. The advantage is that when Iceland's highlands are inexorably travelling over the harshest winter hours, it is easy for road construction, rescue personnel, or operators to close access and prevent people from harming themselves. This suggests that remake of Kjaldar will be a private project. In short, it is a private project that a private member takes on funding, construction, and operation of the project as a government agent. This project is expected to meet entirely by user fees in a similar way to the case of the Havenan tunnel, where the charges have been paid for funding, operation, and maintenance of the tunnel. The introduction of the government to such projects is primarily a matter of enforcing and staging the project. In this country, many private projects in the road system have not been attacked, but there are examples of how this can work. By all means, expenses have been paid for the funding, operation, and maintenance of the tunnel, bringing back the Spöls hf. The government tunnel, as agreed. The experience of this huge project, which certainly is a Waffen Strait, will no doubt come to the future with a similar route. At the end of this section, you will find preparation and support. A great deal of research has been done on the part of private and road construction on the effects of improved transportation across the highlands. These social and social impacts, but observations have also been made on costs, traffic forecasts, and practicality. These studies will be useful in further research and preparation. At that time, roadmaking has made assessments of the weather at the top of the country, considering the location of road roads. There is a high level of construction support, especially south and north, and an increase in the number of tourists in the country. Is it hard to believe that there will be a Kjalveum in this context? Then I'm going to run over a few points, pointing out that by a new Kjal Road, there would be a way from Gold Falls to Akureyri 218 km, if the shortest route had gone, to Siglufjord 264 km, Húsavík 293, and from Gold Falls on Lake Snowy 300 km. Thus, a new tourist population in the land would be between gold Falls and lakes of Myy, 300 miles [300 km]. To further explain this, 218 miles [218 km] from Gold Falls in Akureyri is a few miles shorter than from Akureyri, a stadium in Hurfjordund. The big picture is that today comes in about 70,480 percent - or in recent years and before a pandemic, and I don't expect it to change much - all the foreign tourists who visit the country on Gold Falls and Geysi. With a full year of life, it is possible to shorten the road to the national corners, making it easier to travel to the Northland and across the highlands and to open the possibility of new tourist trends and further contribute to the longer travel period, as discussed in this proposal. We could be talking about moving for seven, eight months, from March until the month of October/November or through November. Clearly, a foundation has not been maintained. Here's the right thing to say that Kjalway is today, and in government plans, the Commission and the Council, the proposals here, one four roads in the highlands of Iceland, which are considered as foundation transport. It is entirely unannounced that this network is not maintained and built up properly. The ancient highland roads are subversive and classed as paths rather than roads. I came across the development of rental cars, a huge increase in foreign tourists from 2011 ◯2018, a study of this one, from Sikhs 150,000, 200,000 people up to 1.3 million, a total of eightfold, or nine times as many as seven years. It is the real route of distribution, along with these rental cars, in foreign travelers around the country, and with them incomes and distributions and nights throughout the country. Gold Falls have 135 miles of fun in it, so it's very brief over there. In the last 20 years, however, the number of foreign tourists traffic across the north of Kjalway has not increased. Right at the end, I'd like to point out that the next step to take in this matter would be that there would be a partnership among rural, national, rural, southern, northern, western, and northern countries, and, of course, the minds of members of the Parliament. These people would need to work together on environmental assessment and what should be included in this environmental assessment and what should be involved in such assessments. Clearly, this is the next step to work on a case like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u140	Madam President. I'm here offering a proposal for a hearing about how to prepare for the establishment of an international rescue school in Iceland. This issue is now presented by members of the left movement of ◯ green, but it has already been brought here in just another form by the council. The suggestion reads: The General concluded to hide foreign and development co-worker in cooperation with secretary of transportation and local government and Justice to appoint a team to investigate the basis for the establishment of an international rescue school in Iceland, its benefits and defects. The task force concluded its decision to the minister no later than March 1, 2022. The proposal is to appoint a team to prepare an international rescue school in Iceland. It is reasonable to note specifically whether such schools are under the hat of GRor, the knowledge center of developing cooperation that works under the signs of UNESCO. In Iceland there is a great knowledge of rescues both in public and in community groups. In this country, there are circumstances and nature that are found in the world, so there should be ideal circumstances to set up such schools here. Icelandic rescue workers have experience with rescue from high seas, are accustomed to coping with coastal and marine reserves, avalanches, earthquakes, rescue of glaciers, extensive search in difficult land areas, etc. In the country too, a great knowledge of the response to volcanic eruptions has been made, as was seen in the case of the Eyjafjörður eruptions and floods associated with them in the spring of 2010 as well as the response to the eruptions of those in Greece and subsequent floods in the South Sea. At that time, the death toll on Smokeynes has continued to be replaced by rivers and volcanic eruptions in Geldingadala, which could continue to be counted in the U.S. rescue banks. For this reason, it seems to be an ideal setting for a state with a weak foundation in this area to learn from the experience of the Icelanders, thereby gaining more knowledge and skill in saving lives. Icelandic rescue teams have also participated in international projects and have been sent out to disaster areas, and it is sufficient to include the progress of the International Rescuer Association of the Landsaving Society, short-term ICE-SAR, to rescue Haiti for about a decade that drew attention to the international situation. Here in the United Nations High School, there have been four schools of study that have already been brought under the GRR, a research center of development, which is preserved in the Ministry of State. This change took place on January 1, 2020, and schools are now working under the signs of UNESCO. They give professionals - and it's important to stress it, professionals, it's not basic - from developing countries to pursue training in areas where Iceland has been very successful in recent decades. The work of the schools here in the country did not change in this change, but now Gera has a management and harmony role over all these schools, schools, and courses, or what we choose to call them. The United Nations High School of Geography has been serving in Iceland since 1979 in the Institute of Energy. His website, with the permission of presidents, says: The aims of the Earth's School for Earth's Earth's Environment are to assist developing countries, found useful in building up and strengthening a group of experts in geothermal studies, which can work in various special fields of earth's heat and use. Recently, the study was extended by inviting the best students to further studies for the Master's degree in geothermal science or geothermal engineering. However, quite a few students have already acquired their master's degrees and some doctors before coming to study in the School of Earth's Grass. Extensive expansion was carried out in cooperation with the University of Iceland in 2000. Since the beginning of the work, a total of 647 individuals since 60 countries have studied school and have come from many parts of the world. Here in 1998, the United Nations University of the Sea Road School of the United Nations began its march. In the beginning, very few students applied for or just six. Over the years, school activities have increased significantly, and today there are a few students who attend each year. In addition, the school offers advanced education or some kind of master school that can take them four or five months and even longer. The school is largely funded by part of Iceland's contribution to development. In 2009, it began its course as an equalized school, or the Godder Equality Training Programme, in English. He's a student of the University of Iceland working together with the State Department and with Anthratom in equal and multiplicity studies. The social school became part of the United Nations University of the United Nations on May 9, 2013, which was established as an experimental project by the Ministry of State and the University of Iceland in January 2009. The HSÞ's equal school is working to provide experts from developing countries who are working on equality to train in their field of expertise and enable them to work more closely on the position of men and women in their own countries. In all, 53 students from five countries graduate from the five - month study. In February 2010, the school of land healing became a formal part of the United Nations University of the United Nations when a work contract was signed. The school is the cooperation project of the State Department, the National Institute of Agriculture and the State. His aim is to provide experts from developing countries who are dealing with deforestation, desertification, and negative impacts of climate change, training in agriculture, and sustainable use of land. Since the start of a test project in 2007, over 100 graduates from 12 countries have graduated from school. In 2012 a common rescue exercise at the East Coast of Greenland was conducted on the basis of a 2011 contract for search and rescue, and it was shared by the Icelandic respondent. According to a report from the Foreign Minister, cooperation with other countries is now under way for security cooperation in the area of Iceland. The establishment of an international rescue school could become an important part of such cooperation and strengthen Iceland's position in the Arctic Council. The importance of the North is increasing and the role of the domestic rescue workers will no doubt increase in this respect. Expecting Iceland to share in international cooperation in the area in terms of rescue issues has already been carried out. A study of an international rescue school might highlight practical and academic aspects, both field work, real field action, lectures, projects, and plans. Then research and development work could also be expected in the area of rescue. When preparing and organizing such schools, it would be right to seek cooperation with such institutions as the National Guard, the Federal Police Department, the Weather Service, the Hospitals, and the university institutions as well as the Landsaves and the Marine Association. More important, the establishment of a global rescue school in Iceland would be an upbuilding campaign to improve international and international image as well as to need a contribution to international cooperation. With the establishment of an international rescue school, the number of jobs would probably increase, at least In this sector. Both work would be related to the study's teaching and management, but also to the operating of equipment, e.g. boats and rescue choppers. It would be natural to seek prisoners from voluntary organizations, such as Landsbourg, by the school business, whose sponsors in the management system could be the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of State. Madam President. I suppose it was 15, 16 years ago that the person standing here first raised this issue in the morning newspaper, I think he was more than just a magazine. This matter, for example, has come back and forth in the discussion ever since, and I certainly followed it several times here at the council by transfer. At present, this is a lot of talk, and the importance of Iceland in the North seas and the importance of Iceland is spoken of as a sort of Arctic center and that Iceland can play a key role in it. So it is effective to examine with an open mind how such projects could be accomplished. Actually, the insides are all there in Iceland, and the knowledge really is there. It could be a great lift for Iceland, which may not be the largest government, but one of the important states in the North to offer such an education as this one. As we make progress, this would also be a source of support and support to the infrastructure we really need here in Iceland because of our own infrastructure. In this regard, school like this could not only benefit us but also strengthen us from the modern - day U.S. rescue teams. I hope this proposal is expected to be discussed with the General Information and Education Committee or a professional board.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u141	It says here is the State Department.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u142	The Foreign Affairs Committee, that may be, there are some committees that could be considered. Surely, though, this is a task that the Parliament should consider with an open mind and continue to do. That may be the case. The minister of foreign affairs has just mentioned the recent situation of Iceland and Iceland in this regard in view of the fact that we could play a key role there, and this proposal may indeed be introduced into such a discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u143	Madam President. I hereby recommend a synopsis of a new well - being policy for the elderly. Further, the movers here are aggressors. Councilmen Elíasdóttir Frinífjörg Elisdóttir, Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson, and Oddný G. Harðardóttir The suggestion reads as follows: The General concluded to hide a health minister and social and child - care minister to work on the market for a new welfare policy for the elderly. It will be progressively removed from a single - sided ideologies of founding services. According to one of the proposals, the goal is to focus on effective agricultural planning and to enable new governmental visions to help older people move to suitable facilities with effective, known, and practical ways. President. I'm going to explain the suggestion and content, but I'm not going to follow the text from word to word. The report itself stands for its own good. It is suggested that cowprints come from prevailing attitudes toward the elderly and progressively disappear from a single - sided vision. It is called for that we, who grow old, have increased responsibility for our own lives. Aged people are an ordinary diverse group of subjects. The main purpose of the proposal is that each individual can live in his own home for the rest of his life with personal support options that are appropriate and according to his or her own wishes. Sadly, available instruments have not yet been activated except to a very limited extent. The government has not shown this interest, nor has it been determined, but it has to approach the group in a direct and completely new way. Pain needs to be spoken. To make this possible, a variety of agricultural options must be an option. The prevailing attitude of politicians has been to respond with simple solutions that have been considered appropriate, that well - watered organizations, one solution that has been common, are suitable for most people. These solutions are certainly to be remembered over a long period of time, and they are mostly some of the policies considered ideal for certain minority groups in the community who were thought to need support and protection from the sharp community. Governments have followed the path without a promise, and this need to be changed. In view of today's culture, the increase in the elderly, and their attitudes, it is necessary to adopt a parapolitic policy with the active participation of the elderly themselves in mind. This temperate and long-term controversies proposal in the United States is about these things. A piece is broken. Governments are to have initiatives, priorities in new ways, and pay directly for a largely improved supply in suitable and safe farming options. This is the factor that weighs what weighs most when it comes to a lifetime of well - being; viable and positive choices instead of what I allow me to call closet space in institutions. As part of this project, there will be real campaigns for discussion, education and enlightenment for citizens, focusing on the importance of each individual being responsible for his or her own life and timely preparation for the older years, e.g. by transport to facilities where bioavailability is non-established and care can be provided if needed. Bones may induce, including They include financial contributions where appropriate, to make notes of years and cost - making institutions. For many years, the need for emphasis has been discussed, but we now face an almost emergency. While the wonderful work being done in traditional aging institutions is not to be minimized, it is often not that a normal community relationship is lost and even broken. Like all members of society, health - care is so important to older people. The nurse has been striking at the discussion and shows how far we have been and what we have buried our heads deep in the sand, avoiding the approach of this subject and the discussion from a healthy point of view. Of course, there is a need to keep in mind that nursing services to sick people, older ones, and that appropriate care is being provided. To a large extent, this service can be performed closer to a person's home, where necessary, and where the cards are maintained. Evolution in that direction takes time. Therefore, it is necessary to get started immediately. Independence in your own home for the rest of your life is to be the natural destiny. In fact, it has been government slogans for many years, but it has been meaningless. This lack of resolve and policy has been completely lacking, even though the problem is a cry - out and agitates. Many may wonder if such a change is practical. Some may argue that it is inhuman to expect weak old people to be joined by one and divided in their own kytru, so that they are now spoken of as cold. These are the expansives of those trapped in the accepted attitudes and perceive little of the community development. The experiences of other nations around us provide an example of abundant improvement in this regard. But Iceland is in its place. Details of home service in any image have e.g. are having very little changes in the past few years. At the same time, the number of elderly persons are trapped in the hospitals of the country, that is not appropriate for housing, and that of public service. There are no progress, Madam President, as rapid and as extensive as there is in the field of health. Timely, new cures and treatments of human ailments, large and small, testicles, can be seen in healing diseases, recovery after trauma, and coping with medical health problems. In the same way, health and welfare technology have moved forward. This is important for older people who can take an active part in the transition process that has already become reality and can create a better sense of security and satisfaction in their own environment, where circumstances arise in flexible service and caring according to events. To this, our vision is directed in the United States. Challenges against professionals are quite significant. They are doing this kind of long - term work with an open mind. Most professional health professionals know of their traditional home care and home service by means of a well - established design and ideologies that have developed to a considerable extent over a long period of time. Of course, it can be built. Emphasis is to include professional personnel in the process and in the development of progressive changes, training for projects, as per government's emphasis on new vision and individual household services. Madam President. Such development projects provide opportunities for interested and trained personnel or health professionals. Potential is a flexible working time, a wide variety of environments, and exciting innovations in the use of knowledge and technology, household specialisations, security systems, telecommunications, pharmacovigilance, hygiene systems and social resources and in its area of solution. There has been a lack of qualified and qualified staff in aging services. It is not expected that change will occur, but the problem may even increase. So it is crucial to create a field of activity that is of interest to young people to deal with challenging modern - day challenges that create creative thinking. Part of the problem, Madam President, in the aimless development of aging, is drawn between the state of state and rural governments on the funding of the ministry. The government pays, for example. Most of the building of stock space and day-to-day expenses for business. So here it is frequently called on projects and funds to society and a tangible job opportunity. This has led to a secondary pattern and an imbalance in service beyond need. So part of the project will be the development of a specific model of models of rural development, allowing funds to be directed to relevant but variable services according to the circumstances, not primarily to traditional organizations that have become too much for many rural communities, as we can see as we hear the calls and shouts of many of the rural communities. Thus, the improvement in the transitional process will be revised in the financial affairs of the group, including the funding of the establishment and the payment of individuals in which financial autonomy and independence will be clearly established. The review of the social security system is then an independent and urgent work programme that is desirable to be done at the same time. There are many opinions, including those found there. the growing impacts of pension payments in older people and their connection with the payment of social security. Madam President. Older people are a diverse segment of society and probably a little more variable than people of the best age. Still, people with opinions, needs, and expectations are just as relevant to other age groups. Hence, it is normal that the counsellor's interface should be balanced in the general and specific frame of care for this age group. So by highlighting attitudes and policies, this synopsis suggests that the legislation on the issues of the elderly, No. 125/1999, will be reviewed with a view to being canceled. The transformation into a new well - being policy for the elderly involves new emphasis and many challenges. Changes do not occur quickly; they are developing projects in which cross - political reconciliation must exist. Various obstacles need to be overcome. No doubt the largest are breaking off a link of absorbed thinking and taking a bold but balanced approach to new emphasis. Madam President. Finally: According to the proposal, time-separated steps will be taken in the planned transition. Good preparation, professional, and financial gains will be made measurable and appreciated in the same way. A measuring device will be created that can make this possible. This is true not only of many factors that concern the government and the communities but also of the president's fellow citizens, especially those with the greatest interest in the elderly, to the elderly themselves. Madam President. At the end of my discussion, I hope that this modest yet radical proposal may be passed to the welfare committee for a proper consideration and hopefully a positive one and get the first.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u144	A respectable president. Those were many beautiful words on paper. I wondered, " What is so radical about this proposal? ' This left many questions behind. Because they spoke of a single - sided vision, we today have a social home service, a service center for elderly, home - care care professionals, day care, rehabilitation, resting - timeisation, nursing homes, nursing homes. I'm just wondering where the senator was using these ideas. Today we are studying the affairs of older citizens and we have a 2019 active team. I wondered if any of the work that the senator talked about taking into account the current job. Ingibjörg Isaksen leads the staff of senior citizens, for this is certainly one of the larger business of society, the aging of the people of the world. So I'd like to ask the senator, " Are these ideas any of the things that are going on today? ' Is this just an isolated case that the Conspiracy is working on, because it's been talking a little bit like it hasn't changed in older citizens' affairs for 30 years?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u145	Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. There has been a very little change here in aging for 30 years. It's just that way if we look at the social changes that have taken place. We took on the most expensive option all too early, to build institutions, to save people in an institution, far too many cases. There's nothing new under the sun. This is where the work needs to be done. This working group. A senator points out that it is not the first task force established to improve aging services. But now and in the years to come, we must have the courage to get out of the wheels. It is true that we provide a variety of services of aging, and sometimes it succeeds greatly, in other cases, when it is fragile and it does not grow in the spine, unfortunately, despite the social growth of the elderly. As we improve our welfare skills, we are in a similar situation. We are not proclaiming that there is a completely new bike under a new wagon, far from it. However, there have been several groups of people who have been involved in various activities, and the law contains laws that cannot be carried out. That's what we need to change.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u146	V.E.G. President. Of course, there's nothing wrong with it. A senator says that there has been no change in the affairs of older citizens for 30 years. Consider just one example, a novelty project on flexible daily training for the elderly in Akureyri, whether the senator knows it. So I ask another question, because the senator did not answer the first question about whether this discussion in the United States is now taking into account what the staff are doing now, although many groups were founded on the affairs of older citizens. I'll be able to read from an article because the senator said that there had not been anything changed in the affairs of older citizens, which, of course, is just nonsense, and the senator himself knows. By permission of the President: ▪ First, a far greater number of individuals have made use of the ministry than was previously possible, and they have also used it for a longer, more continuous period, and in accordance with individual needs. At one time, money was used to achieve a 24 - hour allowance, but it is now an individual and accessible resource for every day of the year. Second, there are about 60% of those who use new resources that have confirmed assessments of the need for nursing homes, but who want and who have been able to live at home with the service of flexible daily training. Experience shows that there is a reduction in the demand for medical space and residence time there. Third, the milestone estimate shows interesting results on the diversity and impact of resources, the main topics and attitudes, the expectations of the users and their relatives, to name just a few. This writes Halldór S. Guðmundsson in Akureyri a few weeks ago. So, for the senator, the older citizen's affairs haven't changed for 30 years. So I ask again if these ideas of the United States take some form of what is happening today, but they are not in some isolated farm, and they are then announced here at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u147	Madam President. An isolated farm - we're guessing isolated, this bubble, Iceland's aging service. For 30 years, there have been very little cases of aging and service to senior citizens, even longer, in view of the social changes that have taken place, in contrast with the quality of life that we leave to most of our citizens. The senator asks if this will take into account a group of servants who are working now. We haven't. Here we are trying to catch up with what we know most about us, what has been discussed in Iceland, and actually the government is being challenged to make acts talk rather than just talking about it and appointing one new group. Many have done fine work and good work, these working groups. Hv. A senator read from a publication about their experience in Akureyri, which is great and is a novelty. [[It was Visi.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u148	Yes, it's a novelty.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u149	It is totally new and is in the direction, but we certainly need to do much more. [[Yeah.]] I'm glad that Halldór S. Guðmundsson has become the head of the Ministry, and we expect much of his contributions and privileges.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-18-97.u150	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón S.'s Brjánsson for making this suggestion, but perhaps much more so for the soles that the senator has shown in this series the death penalty of a misdemeanor. I know and I know about my own skin. A senator has spent quite a bit of his life on this scene, so he knows the lawsuit quite well. It's no secret, isn't it, Madam President, me and him? A senator has had many conversations about the group of litigators over the years, and I have been so lucky to work with it. A senator on this scene earlier. It is true that in itself the main course of this series has not changed. I'm one of those who have kept saying it over the years that we need some kind of ambiguity, some sort of complete new thought. Because it doesn't take you, Madam President, to think for a long time, when you look at the population development and population development and predict 10, 15, 20 years into the future, to see that if we are going to continue in exactly the same arrangement, exactly the same model aging service for this growing and expanding group of older citizens, we will remember, in the same model, probably cost to it somewhere north of 100 billion a year if we just stay in nursing services as we continue on the same path. First, it is not acceptable for society, and secondly, it is not acceptable for the service users, and perhaps the most important thing is to bear that in mind. For far too long, services to older people, and especially this service that has been often called institutional services, have been thought mostly on the basis of the service provider or those who pay much more for the ministry than on the basis of those who use it. That's what we need to change, and that's where I totally agree. Transporter. We need to see, to a much greater degree, what has been called in Icelandic service as needed. It has been called on the English language ◯on demand's service, by the permission of a president, i.e. that those who need a service may call for it when they need it, perhaps not for a few minutes in advance, but in some way they can experience themselves in the driver's seat when it comes to reaching out and accepting it. I have thought and thought that one of the reasons why this is possible and that it will be reasonably possible to change the services modeling if the management of the service is on one hand, that there will be no continuation in the process of having a clear separation between these two main services today and rural society, i.e. that they are responsible for each aspect of the service, thus being able to throw the ball between them over who is to carry the cost of each. It is not working, and continuing in that course is certainly not for the benefit of the service users. Happily, only a new thought is being lost in the group. The question is, Shall we be more concerned with day - to - day service? Should we give more thought to the fact that the ministry comes to people's home? Only in the last few years have there been experimental projects to set up special projects for all the weakest people at home, i.e. to offer services to prevent premature hospitalizations and other such. These efforts have given a good start, but following them has not been decided to change the models and continue in the same course. And that may be where the knife stands in the cow. When it has been tried to make decisions to change or make certain changes in the service models, the rulers and politicians from all political parties - I don't think it can be fair to say that they have touched on one category rather than another when it comes to changing matters - somehow fighting or being attached to elected seasons and not having enough or powerful vision. Hv. A senator and members of the council who have spoken here mentioned the work that Halldór Guðmundsson is now in charge of the Ministry of Health. It's exciting to see what comes out of that work and whether there are suggestions to lead us on a new path. What a fine start that would be if it were! Let us not forget that in order to do so, it does not have to be just one political party or any other political organization, it needs to be willing to do with the whole community because these issues are not just relevant to some particular group of society, they have to deal with society. We do not turn this group around at the point any other than that there will be some sort of concerted effort, and we just get out of the tire goings constantly wondering if this is the issue of a particular party or that inaction is some particular category to teach, etc. I don't think so. We also need to remember that circumstances may vary greatly according to where you live in the country. I allow myself to form a claim that the urban population, which is a prime example of what happened. A senator may be more bent on offering daily training for a large group of older people, especially if daily training is required to form in the citynes. That may be reversed. On the other hand, if humans constantly allow themselves to think that it is impossible, we will never do anything new. If we always believe that the projects we face are the nature that we cannot solve them, we can never solve them. A better approach is to think, "Here's a job. We need to find a solution. We must remember that it is equal to the rights of those who live in more scattered settlements, such as those living in the capital area, to enjoy an acceptable service when they arrive in the early years. I mean, it's possible, and I'd like to mean that it's inexpensive to use, rather than approach as quickly as possible. paritaprevir Guðjón the son of Brjánsson mentioned earlier, that he would always build new homes and new ones. Although this is truly necessary, it cannot be a model we want to live in after this century. I look forward to dealing with this situation at a time. The welfare committee and the belief that just speaking such a matter - that of taking their place with this group of people - were important. And there is good reason to thank you. paritaprevir He's the Brjánsson S. the L.E., the son of Brench for the ele.
