ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-07-108.u1	The only part of the program, a general political debate, is broadcast and broadcast from the General Assembly Hall. The discussions take three rounds, each group eight minutes in the first round, five minutes in the second, and five minutes in the last round. The order of the classes will be this in all traffic: the central category, the Independence Party, the Conspiracy, the left movement a green supply, the Piratars, the forwarders, the exodus, and the group of the people. For the Central Party, Sigmundur spoke to Davíð, son of Gunnlaugsson, 3th. That's the north side. "In the first round, Árnadóttir Kolb Kolbrún Árnnadóttir, 8th round. That's the north side. , in the second and thirdÞorsteinn Sæmundsson, 10th. Smoke. The path to the program "umount" The members of the Independence Party are: The Theocratic Lord of Minister Winbjörg Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson, State and Development Ministers, on the first round, in the second Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir of Justice, and in the third round of Vilhjálmur Árnason, 9th. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! For the Conspiracy speaking in the first round of the Fire Einar Einar Logi Einarsson, the 5th. That's the north side. "In the second Oddný G. Harðardóttir, 6th. Southk, and third, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brylfóttir, 3th. We're out of here. For the left movement, a green supply of Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, 7th That's the north side. "In the first pass, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, 3th. Witchest. , in the second and third Stetgrimur J. Sigfússon, 2nd. That's the north side. Pirata's speakers are in the first round of Thorhldur Sunna Ævarsdóttir, 4th. Smoke. So, at the second Halldóra Mogensen, 11th. Smoke. n., and Ingi In Jónsson, 9th. Smoke. n., third round. The rest of the debaters are Willum Þór Þórsson, 9th. We're out of here. "In the first round, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, 7th. Witchest. The second, and the thirdÞórarinn Ingi, son of Pétursson, were four. That's the north side. For resurgence, first round, Þorgerður K. Gunnarsdóttir, 7th. We're out of here. "In the second Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, 13th. We're out of here. , and in the third Þorbjörg Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir, 7th. Smoke. n. For the Gang of the People, Inga Sæland, the 8th. Smoke. So, first and third round, and Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, 12th and 12th, respectively. We're out of here. , in the second round.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-07-108.u2	President. Good citizens of the country. Now, at the end of the last election season, it is appropriate to look back. During the past 15 months, there has been very little in the political state, all about the epidemic. Fortunately, Iceland and I have been successful in fighting the virus, thanks to the wonderful professionals and the solidarity of the population. But now it's time to resume a serious political discussion. Many large cases have been held unsolved for years. To make the best of decisions about the future, we need to consider what has proved to be good and what has not been. The present government has not been successful. She has had her best days under the cover of the epidemic. The less politics were discussed, the better for the government, a government formed as a system administration, a conflict of interest to switch between the Ministers rather than a political view. During the pandemic, we supported all the action possible to cope with the effects and repeatedly provided suggestions to cope with the situation. But because they didn't come out of the system, the system administration rejected them, which is probably not strange in view of at least Two of the parties have repeatedly rejected their own policies, even their baseline categories. Although the campaign program was low in its development interview, left greens may be able to enjoy pleasure, even though most of them have missed the best of their own policies and have worked hard on the worst. After the season, the health system in a real crisis is extended, the waiting lists are extended, people are sent abroad to perform operations, although at least three times as much as performing similar measures at the same institution in Iceland. In fact, after 55 years of successful work, Domus Medical is now shutting down because of the circumstances in which the government has prepared the operation. Nurses are a means of money and a community like the U.S.A., and cancer society does not seem to be welcome in the new, central, Marxic health system. An amazing mess with cancerskis is the result. In the realm of prowess and public health, the main contribution of the government seems to be to legalize drugs and set world record, as in so many Orthodox affairs of the government. That's when experts'opinion is no longer important. The case is a pure gift to the organized criminals who have been taking over the drug market in Iceland and increasing the supply of strong drugs. As the U.S. Marshal's intelligence department has repeatedly pointed out the abuse of criminal gangs, so has the justice system and the welfare system in Iceland. In that area, however, the government also has legal adjustments that make it easier for criminals to work. Instead of going the same way as the officers in Denmark and other governments in the North countries, trying to direct refugees the safe, legal way and then welcome those invited to the country, the government of Iceland goes in the opposite direction. The politics as the current government, though, is based on bandages, not content. This is particularly environmental. Environmental protection is of utmost importance, but the methods of the Icelandic government do not lead to success. Plans expect higher taxes and expenditures, mainly of the less revenue, less consumption, and less quality of life, and less production in Iceland. This is a preposterous approach in view of the need to increase the value of Iceland. The more produced here by environmental energy sources, the better. Plans for highland national parks are designed to block much of the country largely for the population and replace it with democratic government. The case would already be accomplished if the Central Party hadn't intervened, as in so many of the government's woes. During the election period, most of the mayor's section in Reykjavík seems to have been controlled by transportation. ▪ The international airport is to travel, say it, ends up in the city line project that the government decided for incomprehensible reasons to finance for the Reykjavík Community, a project designed to push other traffic. The government felt that in return the government would be allowed to finance the necessary transportation in the capital area, but after signing the contract, the chairman of the Council of the Organization in Reykjavík explained that it would just not be that way. The most important role of the State has been neglected. Much of the boys in elementary school can't read for themselves, and Iceland is on its way down in PISA surveys that measure the results of study between countries. Older citizens have been neglected for years. Unjust and incessant impairments as pension workers and those who rely on the payment of social security have not been corrected these years after government had promised. It is not only unreasonable, but it also produces negative desires that reduce the quality of value and saving. During the next term, the General Assembly must be absolutely clear that we will defend the sovereignty. The recovery of the third energy package was a big warning, and now it's the fourth one on the way. We need to review our approach to the EEA agreement and the Schengen partnership as even the European Union is taking on greater self-sponsored rights regarding its borders and internal issues. Today, the European Union is not content with measuring what people may eat for breakfast but is about to start conducting the television program and even discussing social media. The General has to reject a new government and EU censorship bill. A growing new game is laid on small Icelandic companies, even though they are tailored to international corporations. This requires a lot of work and financial resources, which will not be able to raise the pay and hire people or to increase the value of money. This is a competitive position, reduces the value of Iceland, takes on consumers, and reduces the income of state funds. It has never been bigger, and it is financed by public taxpayers. After their heads, the members and the Ministry of Presidency have grown faster in this terms than ever before. IRS in Iceland are with the highest in the world. In addition, the government has raised various fees and added new ones. We need stimulating tax systems, systems that do not punish young, working people who are setting up housing, or pioneers and companies that make up valuables for society. For the most part, the settlement has been forgotten during the season. In this, we presented the biggest and radical program that has been seen in Icelandic politics for decades. The same can be said of agriculture. With the radical overall policy of the Central Party, the article can move forward at all fronts. After 15 months without politics, we need to take a position on how we will build up our community for the future. In this, the Central Party has the solutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-07-108.u3	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. Me and the Icelanders are a nation of optimism and perseverance. The attitude and harmony of the nation in the struggle with the recent epidemic are based on these qualities, optimism, and perseverance. In many ways, we have shown our best in these critical times, and now that the winter has been replaced by bright summer nights, water temperatures have come in the struggle with this calamity. We may be able to rejoice, we may be able to rejoice, and we may be able to look intently ahead, but we cannot afford to hold back all good things. Nothing happens on its own. Now more than ever, it is important to promote the country's valuables, to achieve a more powerful response to the inevitable collapse of the epidemic. There are no magic solutions. If we are to maintain the standard of living that we have become accustomed to, we need to create valuables and increase exports. Despite what the government holds out, the increased debt of the state's funds is not the way forward. The standard of living will not be borrowed with the increased debt of the state's funds. You see, debt has one flaw, it has to be paid sooner or later, and we here have no right to send the bill to future generations. We will also not tax ourselves out of the tribulation. We need to provide people and companies with room to make valuables. So we need to lighten our load, especially of smaller companies, instead of increasing it. We've got to cancel the home-made obstacles. And we need to increase our foreign access with our valuable export products. And there are opportunities. We can best see the increase in the growth of the international sector that the mind - working industry has established itself as the fourth export plant. Me and the Icelanders are a free trade and export people. Our standard of living remains and falls by the way we succeed in the foreign market and the openness of our markets. This is why I have put great emphasis on opening up a foreign market in my time as minister of foreign affairs and securing Icelandic companies at least equal competition with their rivals in other countries. The latest example of this is an agreement on a free trade deal with Britain, which we made in a fleet of Norway and Liechtenstein. It guarantees a European export interest in our second largest commercial country, Great Britain. We need to continue this course, continue to open up as much as possible a door for an Icelandic company, and pay their way to foreign markets. The standard of living for all of us depends on that. We need to adjust and achieve real savings in our government business after the handsome entrance of the state funds for the past month's fight. We want our young people to see Iceland continue as land of opportunity. If our young people look elsewhere, if they think they're better off paying off somewhere else, then we're screwed. It is no less about the generations that have now returned. They too need to be included in a new cycle of life. We cannot continue to discourage older ones from sharing in the community. We must use the resources of all, especially the older ones. The key to this is flexibility. The good news is that we are getting older, but we need to prepare for it. In a short time, every fifth Icelandic in his pension will be and we will be in a hurry to prepare for these changes. This is especially true when it comes to health care. The subject of older ones is a future matter that affects everyone. A family with grandparents, dads, or mom who don't get a service is in trouble. To fulfill these assignments, we can look to the northern countries for solutions. A respectable president. Economic resistance is important now when it comes to the end of the epidemic, but we also need to fight when it comes to cutting off restrictions on people's daily lives. The public in Iceland has sacrificed much in recent months, including our children and teenagers. A person's freedom is justified when there is a need for it, but such a degree of impairment should not exceed any reason and no longer be needed. As the threat of the epidemic decreases, we need to take decisive steps to reduce the number of freedoms that were considered inevitable during the pandemic. It is a joy to have good relations over the aims of both political and governmental authorities to restore society to its normal standing. We are not going to let the pandemic reduce the long - term freedom of people in Iceland. When the epidemic stops becoming a real threat to society's health and the survival of the health system, it is finished. Then we put fear in the backseat and let hope, optimism, and joy of doing things again. A respectable president. The individual should always be out of his sight. Then we'll all have the best. If each of us can enjoy freedom, if each of us finds our strength to resist, the community as a whole will benefit from it. Likewise, let us not forget that freedom and responsibility are not opposites but are two aspects of the same coin. Each of us is responsible for our own matters, our responsibility toward society, our responsibility toward the environment, and our future responsibilities, not to be separated from the freedoms that each of us enjoys. We can be thankful for the inhumanity of many things in Icelandic society. There are living conditions with the best known, and good trust in the general community, though this may always improve. And here on earth, man's complexity is being promoted. It has been a pleasure to observe in my work as minister of foreign affairs that in many parts of Iceland, they are considered to be exemplary. We have added to the scales of important human rights and have allowed valuable ideals, as well as valuable interests, to determine our position on a global scale. A respectable president. The elections in the fall will be about how fast and surely we will be able to turn the defense into a offensive. They will be about a new cycle of biographies or an increase in the debt of a state fund with the resulting in in inflation and unemployment. It will be chosen to base our welfare on a valuable creation or to borrow it and send the account to future generations. It will be passed on whether Iceland will remain a society in which the individual, his responsibility, and his freedom to speak and revulsion will remain the course of time. The course of independence party is clear in these areas: We want to pay the way people and their companies, not restrict and discourage. We want to increase the value of living in the highest order. We refuse the way the government has suggested, to borrow the standard of living, and to give the account to future generations. We want a community of economic opportunities, social trust, and flourishing diversity of lives. Good Icelanders. We are a people of optimism and perseverance, and we make our own good deeds. It shows the story. When we take matters into our own hands, we do the best we can. Hence, we know that nothing happens naturally, either to us as individuals or to all of us as a nation. We have things to do. The right thing to do is bright ahead. - I thank those who obeyed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-07-108.u4	My fellow Americans. It's spring in the air, and it's adoration in people. With good results in vaccinations, most of us should be able to enter the summer with hope for a better time. Let us be thankful to those in front of us, it has been in the power of the last year's struggle, fostering the weak, protecting the sick, enabling children to go to school, and making their lives go as far as possible. There is also positive news about the tourism industry, the important profession. It is a joy to hear of small companies all over the country, family companies, and dictators who have begun to watch books after they have been very tired. As we rejoice that things are changing to normal values, let us be sure that we will succeed in the construction of jobs, that we will not take up the old machine unchanged, that we will resonate, make new sounds, and that we will be much better able to support innovation and invest so that tourists will be able to spread around the country. However, we cannot overlook the fact that the epidemic has lost weight on people, both medically and less economicly. And now, the overall picture of the government's last year's economic actions is drawing up on what economists call a K-shaped crisis, i.e. Some become richer while others have less materially than before. It was simply not taking steps to direct the money to where it needed to be. People have been forced to spend their savings or even to go into debt to survive a horrible situation. Over the past few years, therefore, we have seen exceptionally clear how small a relationship exists between the average and individual groups, for while the income balance in this country is high, the balance of property is rapidly increasing. The financial answers show that a small group of individuals are reaching out for the majority of all new wealth in the country, and the gap between the public and the few rich people is increasing, and these wealthes are taking on more and more local places. Therefore, the Conspiracy wants to fight inequities wherever they can be found. It is not only righteous in itself to equal people's opportunities and standard of living, a large equation that is the basis for a healthy community, and the basis for a powerful economy. Finally, we must look through the code that the virus epidemic stirred up and see what this government has accomplished during the election season and how well the present policy pattern is likely to meet complex challenges for the future. During a discussion on the prime minister's policy at the beginning of the season, the health minister, with the permission of the president, said: "We're saving the health, the education system and transport from the long-term neglect and the appeal of the money forces in the country... Let us, then, consider the health status only at the end of the term. According to the Chairman of the Medical Association, there has never been a severe subsidiary of the Land Hospital emergency department, and it is headed for the summer with overwhelming potential for serious incidents, even death, in the department. In many parts of the country, nursing homes are headed for failure because of the years of underdeveloped state, and Icelandic youths are not getting necessary mental health care. There is no psychiatrist in a fixed position in the country. This is the work of the government. As a result of a pandemic, we should reward just an unselfish health care professional and public standing by providing sufficient financial support for the Icelandic health - care system. The public has been calling for it for years. From this, Mr. President, only one conclusion can be drawn, and it is quite different from the Minister of Health at the beginning of the season. The health system here will not be rescued by the government of the media, in any case, in any case. However, it may well be that these unusual patterns of governance have been suitable for cooling the position after the last control, but these groups will not find the harmony required to meet the huge challenges of the future. In fact, we have seen a number of developments on the surface of the government itself, despite more likely parts of a Senate hall. I'm calling from criminal possession, frame plan, highland park and, of course, a proper resource directive. Therefore, my fellow Americans, it is necessary to pay the way for a new government after the end of the election that agrees on the road and the projects ahead, a government that is not afraid of a new future, and is open enough to use creative solutions to counter the inequities, climate and changes to the labour market, a government ready to build up, not cut down as the government proclaims in a five-year financial program. It's kind of creepy, Mr. President, that instead of planning to improve the public service and invest in people, the government is going to launch the cut-off knife. My fellow Americans. The United States is ready to go to the government on progress, on the increase in equations, in public interest, and in an outbreak of this crisis. - Happy summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-07-108.u5	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. There are a lot of things going on here, and they often say a week is a long time in politics. That is also true of four years, and there have been some conversions during the ideal period ending this fall. What a joy it is, then, to look back and see the harvest of the labor after the first term, where the left movement leads the government! The left movement is a force based on four basic mechanisms: female freedom, environment and nature protection, social justice and international peaceism. We on the left wing have long had the reputation of being out of control. That we just don't like each other. But I believe that this election period has proved that the left movement has a green supply is one that dares. It takes courage to step in and lead controversial government cooperation with political opposers. And it takes courage for such cooperation to achieve as much objective results as has been achieved during this terms. It is a pleasure to be part of a political force that causes action and action. Thus, we now have a progressive income tax system that most useful to them in the community. The deterioration in the social security system has also been reduced, the decrease in the leaveover payments, and the addition of social support to the elderly. At that time, child benefits and unemployment benefits have been improved. We are on the right track, and we need to continue to support the most money - rich and those who support the social security system. That, of course, is for us to catch one another when it is necessary. With the latest collective agreements, we began as a community such a huge step through the induction of abbreviated week of work. The shortening of the work week is intended to be a genuine biographer, which should provide more free time for all in the full. In the years that follow, I look forward to seeing how we will succeed in this grand task and hope that we will be able to clear out all the knees that have come up in the first place. When Catherine's Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's government, started in 2017, it was 9 months of birth. It's 12 months now. A whole year when new parents have to spend with their children in the original language. People have increased opportunities to take their first steps in housing, including with the appearance of share loans. Support systems have been revised from the foundation by improving the interests of children who need specific services. My fellow Americans. The rights of a circuit, the sexes, and the Intersex have been guaranteed. New equality laws have been passed. The protection of the informants is now established, and the public information rights have been reassigned. At that time, the laws on protection against interest issues and the registration of real owners have been adopted that promote increased transparency. And then for a long time, I could talk about the operation of the Government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter in the direction of equalizing and juster society, not to mention the tireless work of the highest. Prime Minister to make significant changes in the Constitution of our Icelanders. Now we have here the opportunity to take the step and make adjustments to our high standards of the constitution. A respectable president. With Svavarsdóttir at the health - care center, health care has been greatly promoted throughout the country as the first stop to anyone in need of health care. Large steps have been taken to reduce the expense of patients, and economics should never be an obstacle to those who need health care. A new U.S. Hospital is rising at the Ring Road, and a major offense has been made in mental health. In the spring of 2019, a new pregnancy - breaking law guaranteed the self - determination rights of women. For the first time in history, it has been adopted here at the General Health Organization, our guide to continued good works. Then countless numbers of them are the most reliable leadership. The health minister of Svandís Svavarsdóttir has shown in his fight against the pandemic. Now we're about 64% of adults vaccinated. It's the end of the whole thing. Many of the doubts were not so long ago. - Thank you, Svandís of Avengers, thank you, trinkets, and thank you, all of you, who have done so well through this epidemic. V.E.G. Environment and resource minister and vice president of the left green has been at peace with each other during the season. That's how we've made sure that nature enjoys the doubt. V.E.G. At the same time, a minister has been in charge of important steps in the induction of the cycle economy, including bans on the use of plastics. These changes are not always popular, but they require that we reevaluate our daily routine. But they are important, as well as the human family has incredible adaptability. These are vital steps and will soon become part of our lives. Besides, it's got the highest. The Environment and Resource Minister has set up here and received an approved and largely funded climate-based operation programme for the first time. For a long time, left greens were the only class that put natural protection and climates first, making the mountain - loping flotation team in their left greens. Today, time is blessed with others, and all classes have environmental issues on their policy index in some form. Then there is a sign of healthy society that so many people are interested in our highlands, as has been shown in the implementation of a case on a highland park. I have full faith that such a garden will become a reality to all of us. My fellow Americans. The work at a council never ends here, as society is alive and is changing constantly. Now this spring we as a community had to face ourselves as another #methoo revolution came to light. The reports of the victims of violence do not allow anyone to be unmoved. This series of subjects has made a significant step. We have punished digital sexual abuse, which is a legal remedy for those who have so far suffered a lack of understanding. We have agreed and financed a child - prevention programme and young people against sexual and sexual violence and harassment. We have strengthened laws about human halls. It's a group of subjects that need to be reevaluated constantly as society changes. Last week, extensive operations were presented for the perpetrators of violent behavior. It is my hope that any action that has been carried out in the terms of the season will bring real results to this important class of subjects. Good citizens of the country. We're almost out of season. For the first time since 2013, the same government has been here for a total of four years. According to surveys, the work of Prime Minister Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, is a source of great pleasure. In fact, when people are asked who they want to lead a government, it has a head and shoulder to other political leaders. In the fall of the election, we offer our left green forward to lead our community and improve. But good people, first summers, I wish you'd all enjoy your lives surrounded by your people, whether on a journey in this country or on a foreign mission. - Happy summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-07-108.u6	President. Dearest nation. When Ásgeir Jónsson's bank manager told us in spring that much of Iceland was controlled by interest groups and that it was a major matter to cross over with them, a turning point was set. By word of mouth, the money banker broke the voice of the nation's greatest rulers to the insolence of certain interests. Finally, a high - ranking official had the courage to say what the public knows well; that in Iceland there are large and powerful groups of interest in nothing, which drive people to criticize and persecute them. The wall of silence was broken, and we had the opportunity to discuss seriously what kind of community we want to be. Do we want to be a community of activity, exodus, and insurance? Or do we want to be a community that stands on its own and with it? But government leaders were not interested in that conversation. Thus, the first minister's reaction, not to what the bank manager said, but to what the reporter took the interview, was to insist on the example of Ásgeir, as he did not know any examples. During the interview Ásgeir also criticized dear Samhera against the members of the Federal Bank and said, by permission of the president: ▪ I fear that in many ways, in such a surveillance facility such as the Secret Bank, we will be personally hunted, as the following staff has been conducted. Again, an important conversation was opened. As a community, do we feel that public workers in important monitoring institutions are at risk of personally being reported on by the health care provider? Government leaders were not interested in this conversation either. When a financial minister was brought up by reaction, he said that officials with great power must, of course, know that abuse could have consequences. Then we know. A financial minister, who has never experienced the consequences of abuse of power, no matter how grossly he is, wants his staff to fear the consequences of their surveillance work, just as officials should fear the consequences of their revelations, or as poets and scholars fear the consequences of their criticism, and even ministers whose interests are not in their pocket should fear the consequences of their words in this speech. Meanwhile, we look up on stakeholders who run guerrilla departments spying on and slandering people who do not approve of elections and reelections, and plaguing people to be obedient. Is this the community we want, society with activity, elation and insurance, a society that is worse to point out than to commit it? Dearest nation. This force of mass destruction and serene action manifest to us are much the same kind of coercion that women have now declared to be a war on. We see the same response as when the good boys break us. Yes, they have done so much good. Don't ruin their future, don't make any noise, and don't mention any names at all. The use of violence in the arms is of the same hurt, it is systematic, and we overcome it with the same tools; by means of cohesion, by virtue of loudness, and by stopping cleaning up people and groups that sustain it. There's an election coming up. The silence has been interrupted, and Pirate's objective is clear. We want the office of the head of the IRS to be taken out of the drawer in which the remainder of the government put it. We want surveillance agencies to have access to their public obligations and to protect their employees from personal persecution by groups of interests. We want to ensure freedom of the press with better legal protection from journalists and counterwelves against the interference between a special interest system of the media's editorial policy. We want all market catchers, serious restraints on the possession of fish industry and the real cost for innovation rights on all national resources. And we'd like to legalize the new constitution... that sets power boundaries... and restores the fish from the sea... from the paws of the sea... that's got all over the dirty shoes for way too long, or as Hallgrímur Helgason described the situation: We've grown these bad guys and let them rule this place. Today, they reward us by showing the world that the best corruption in the world, clean and clean is like our water and air. So clear it can't be seen in a picture unless the Seljan talks below. Dearest nation. Let's stop growing those bad guys, stop letting them rule this place. We do so by choosing classes that are not cohesive when the villains break off and do not give in to all their demands, classes that put their chairs before the door, which do not lead the watchdog interests to power across the bounds of a beautiful promise of something else; groups that truly put the interests of the public before the interests of a few rich and big corporations, sort like Pirata.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-07-108.u7	V.E.G. President. My fellow Americans. The opening note from the poem ◯End, and the beginning, by the Polish poet and Nobel laureate Wislawa Szólorska, reads, by permission of the president: After every war cleaning up is required. Things Can't Come ... stilla songofyourself. The poem translated by Geirlaugur Magnússon is about war vandals. I'm not going to compare the struggle with the pandemic and the destruction of launch and bombings, but I'm going to tell you the details of the events of the past few months that have affected all our daily lives, relationships that overrule most and frame the beginning and desire to end. My fellow Americans. Jobs, employment, employment, said the head of the advance party on the day of the prime minister's debate. That was last October at the beginning of the council. Then the epidemic had raged for some time. Uncertainty was still great, and the struggle had been about defenses. The government's priorities were to protect life and health. Soil protection was administered wisely, both individually and with previously unknown social limitations. The nation stood together and did well. The economic defense system consisted of many ways to protect the economy of enterprises and households, including in maintaining recruitment relations with employee. The part-change route was adopted in the first government action pack last March. Now in the fourth act pack, we've implemented the recruitment grant and started the campaign to create at least one part of the work programme. 7,000 jobs. All along, the Catherinen government of the Katrín of Jakobsdóttir has lived up to its previous planning for building up. A strong response and additional economic measures certainly call for public funds and borrowing, but is not at all a loss of money, but money that supports the economy of households and businesses. It reduces economic contractions, promotes and strengthens us as a community, and lays the basis for more intense resistance. My fellow Americans. Iceland and I have had the privilege of enjoying long periods of high employment in all comparison and low unemployment. True, it is often the time with the exchange of prices between remuneration rates and the level of remuneration. But a powerful career will be a basis for the well - being and support of greater prosperity. Work, growth, well - being - it's old history and new. A story that we're looking for, we know and want to work for. We have, in time, increased the interaction between financial and financial policies, learned, and managed better to balance fluctuations and to form economic stability. Be content to care for the wealth of the state so that it can function and fulfill its individual roles in behalf of all of us, enjoy well - being, equal to the cost, and meet economic rhythms. The call is a job, and we're going to get started. Good citizens of the country. The health system has passed the most stressful tests that could not be provided. Of course, we are not graduated in virus economics and the interaction between the disease prevention and the economic activities are complex. However, we have been able to get here with persistence and cooperation to prove and unite that we are all public defenses and we are all state funds. We already have and so far a new position of government funds, and we use the financial resources of all, with varied measures, against the economy, and to protect the interests of households and businesses. Things, of course, can't come in by themselves, as the Nobel Prize poet noted. And now, with a good course of vaccination, you will be presented. We've certainly turned the defence on the offensive. The increase is based on solid foundations, the basis of resources, the basis for stability, economic and political growth, and the basis for the social infrastructure we have gained to a great degree of confidence in the terms of the season. But now more especially is the basis for the national persistence and cooperation that we have shown and stuck together in times of severe testing. My fellow Americans. We are proud of the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. We have a new season to build social infrastructure and we live in now, from the epidemic to a more powerful fight. The greatest challenge for the next year is to create employment, invest in people, make valuables, and increase in prosperity. It needs to be consistent, consistent, green, digital, and social. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-07-108.u8	My fellow Americans One of the things the government wanted to talk about tonight is a good management of experts in the battle against the virus epidemic. The main part of the management situation supported them in their work. The only anti-politic government post came from the Independence Party and the Central Party. In fact, it was one of the biggest failures of government opposition. But now it's a mission. We face the long - range task of mastering the debt problems of a state fund, building an Icelandic job life, increasing its variety, and increasing its fortunes for the people, homes, and well - being of the country. In order to reach these goals, however, we need to make it easier for all our employment to run faster and to prepare for its competitiveness. In this light, it is interesting to consider what it is that the government doesn't want to discuss here tonight. She does not want to discuss whether new taxes or massive cuts will cut her life's power when she leaves behind $3 billion a hole in her new financial plan. She does not want to talk about reducing the power of industry that the government has taken, contrary to declarations, foreign loans on higher interest, and at high risk to finance government funds. She does not want to discuss that the power of employment is reduced when inflation and growth are much greater and higher here than in competitive countries. She does not want to discuss that when a currency head puts freedom in business, the power of employment is diminished. We enter the election in the fall under unusual circumstances. The result of the state funds had become insurmountable to the virus epidemic. The recession had begun professionally. There were many signs of danger. A huge collection of debt due to the viral epidemic was inevitable. But that does mean that under these circumstances, a traditional political commitment to a vast increase in government spending is not enough. We're not going to make it back from 2019 either. We need a much larger economy right away. What for? To protect the welfare system. All of these things that the government does not want to discuss prevent professional life from running as fast as we need. Government liberation is the head of currency. They reduce economic growth, increase the likelihood of taxes and cuts, and counteract innovation. In contrast, restoration wants to ensure stability, comparable to freedom of business to that of our neighbors, by expanding the EEA Convention and making a deal with the European Union, to link the crown with euro, as Danir does. A respectable president. It has been so nourishing that the right section of the board of directors has made no comment when the left section of the board shows its true face. The private company is silent when Domus Medical closes, when waiting lists are extended to speech pathologists, physical therapists, psychologists, when expert management is limited, and patients are sent to expensive foreign operations rather than to negotiate with domestic or hospital. The result is worse services for patients and higher prices for the State, monotonous working environment and fewer opportunities for health care professionals. On Dayday, it is good for those who are free - minded to remember that this is a clear message that this government trusts only the state, that the arms of its members are choking for personal business and other forms of management. If the cost of monotonous, inefficient, inefficient health systems is the sacrifice for alleged political stability, that political stability is not worth much. There were other things in this term that could not be discussed at all and that were given to unpleasant matters. Like a report we asked the government to make on the influence and ownership of the 20 largest commercialized partners in the country. She won't get hurt. Sad? Yeah. Coincidence? No. It is also sad to observe the government's response to the Samherjam. The diplomats of the government have put silk gloves in their criticisms and muttered innocent words that this is inappropriate and unnatural. This is how they're going to get serious because a big firm's conspiracy against journalists is not only inappropriate but also inappropriately an attack on democratic discussions. You see, words matter. However, it does not have to be surprising that the heads of the government groups just use their inner voice when it comes to making major companies. This is in full agreement with an entirely toothless resource directive prescribed by the prime minister for the council and will not change any created object if it is accepted. That law is a propitiatory sacrifice for the development, while the people's lot is left behind. My fellow Americans, in the fall, you have a choice. The three conservatives want to continue working together. That's what they said. Syllables to these categories are elected to continue in stationary management. There will be no turning into resource and health issues. The crown remains the same barrier for homes, companies, for innovation. A different view is seen by the restoration. Reservation wants to change society and air out. We want public interest to be in charge of a quest. We want a normal fee to be paid for access to our resources and to allow temporary negotiations to be made. We'd like to place a possession in the fishing road, no fimbebe here. We want to ensure increased transparency. We'd like to set up a gang level immediately and connect the crown to Euro. We want lower growth and a less expensive basket of food, less expensive housing, and more competitive employment. We want our spirituality to be equal to the physical and access to psychological services that will be paid without the cost of hundreds of thousands of dollars. We want our people to make it to a nursing home and to have an acceptable ministry. We want disabled people to have good lives here, and the systems to keep their arms around them become simpler and more flexible, that they talk to each other. We want updated and modern educational systems to put a focus on our children and early intervention. We want to raise the basics for students to survive on student loans. We want built - in structures to become real, not beautiful words on paper once more. We want equal votes and thus to ensure basic human rights in Icelandic society. We want competitive rules for everyone. We want to make more freedom both for consumers and farmers, and for farmers to have their own say how they grow their own land, in harmony with people and with nature. We want larger steps to be taken to cope with violence in our community. We want equality to be the red thread in all our decisions. We want Iceland to be a nation among nations and not sit at the table where decisions are made. We want them to follow; we trust them to take the next steps in Europe. We want Iceland to become a model for other countries to reduce emissions and deal with climate problems. We want Iceland to be the greenest country in the world. The good people of the country. It is clear policy that the entire community system, whether it's health, education, marine, agricultural or welfare, needs and must serve the public. They should be reasonable, user-friendly, and efficient. They are not to serve political claims or to be governed by interests. They are not supposed to be ideal areas for biting, or shelter, from party quality. Systems that do not serve the public are of no value; they are systems of special interest to which the restoration wants to jump. Dearest nation. Happy summer. Happy free summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-07-108.u9	A respectable president. Dearest nation. The crowd is the advocate of forgotten people. The people's party is the advocate of the people of this world. The number of people is for the one - third nation living in poverty. One thing is certain that we are proud of the work we have done here at the National Assembly of Iceland on your behalf, where we have had the opportunity to do so - and not to contradict it, and no one has spoken against it - to be the voice of the forgotten people, the people who have lived in silence for decades. That voice has been heard from the highest speaker of the country and has led to its failure - no one who has missed the situation in the community, even though so many people, especially in this hall, pretend that it is not. It's amazing to listen to the song I've been listening to tonight, with all due respect. Almost all the spokesmen that have come up here have been in government or themselves and have been in a position and circumstances to keep things a little different: we want this and we want to meet. - But why hasn't it been done? A respectable president. Dearest nation. There are two nations living in the country. There's a huge gap between them. On one side are those with everything, greed, wealth, and self - control, their existence and their lives. So on the other side, the rest are the ones who have nothing and have to ask for their handouts. A group of people want to build a bridge over this gap. Since we came in here and were given a position to speak here in this supreme chair, we have recommended a high level of affairs, members of Congress. But what has happened to them? I urge you, my fellow Americans to examine the work we've been doing. Then you know that the mind is involved. But one thing is certain, this government hasn't handed us many stones to try to build this bridge between those who have everything and those who have nothing. When it is said that there will be elections in the fall and, of course, elections in the fall: what is it that you want, my people? You want a condition? Would you like to have this situation today in which special interests and greed areas exist? Since corruption is so obvious, it is tangible. And as a nice senator said, w. paritaprevir Thorhild Sunna Ævarsdóttir: The morale of corruption is finally being broken, of greed. But we need to keep doing so. We can't stop here. A respectable president. My fellow Americans. I would especially like to talk about our children's education, talking about the human race that will never grow, talking about the human race that also resides in microchip, the elderly, and the disabled, huge human beings who are not used, who will never be able to thrive. Why do 34% of young boys with poor reading ability or with illiteracy graduates after ten years of high school? How in the world can that be? And it's just not changed the entire term, on the contrary. How is it possible to step outside the box in this subjugated education philosophy, to put your arms around the little ones as soon as they come into school and help them learn to read? What's so complicated about it? Why are they loaded with study aids, even foreign languages, and not read in their own? And people are amazed at the increasing psychological problems of our young people. How can anyone think of 34% young boys and 22% young girls with their dreams for the future - how do these young people feel when they enter high school? Is there any surprise that it feels bad? Not me. I'm not surprised. I'm just surprised things aren't fixed. I'm just surprised at what kind of quiet, what kind of hide-and-seek is really about things that we're supposed to do a long time ago. It's clean and smart when we bring money here for financial support to five years, we come here with funds, and still a huge group is left outside the community. Here's what the current Supreme Court said. In September 2017, the prime minister's debate over the then prime minister, Barry the Bjarni of Benediktsson, that making poor people wait for righteousness would be the same as denying it for righteousness. Yet, it is now, under the leadership of the left green and the highest. The prime minister who spoke those words at the time was to wait for them to be extended to a relief center where poor people are asking for food. Even our children's leisure card, which should make it possible for them to pursue sports during summers or some social activity, including children of immigrants - but the parents of these children try to use vacation cards to learn Icelandic. This is how we put our freshmen in our arms. It's a disgrace, a respectable president. It's a shame. The population has measured 350,000 credits. The minimum tax and decomposition. It is not just that it is totally rejected and swept off the table, it is not even listening to how we want to finance it, because we are not asking for more money to do so, not at all. We just want to try to build a bridge so that there is one nation that lives in the land, so on one side there will not sit those who have to accept the crumbs that falls off the vast table of the Kingdom monasteries. There's nothing else we're asking for. A respectable president. Dearest nation. There are two cases hopefully coming in for payment soon, one for the elderly, and one for the blind and the other for the visually impaired. I have full faith that it's not really possible, no matter how political bitch is really, but to put your arms around these matters. Instead of saying happy summer, I say: I hope you can all, my dear country, have as pleasant summers. Because I know there are a lot of people who don't get a vacation and can't do any more of their time because they can't afford it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-07-108.u10	V.E.G. President. Good citizens of the country. At the beginning of this election period, the government proclaimed that all the people of the country could enjoy good health services. That would be independent of the economy or the residence. In particular, there was to be improvement in mental - health care, prevention, and medical care. V.E.G. Health Minister said he was the savior of the medical system. In addition, the Agency's surveillance and maintenance role against the Commission was to be reinforced. What, though, is a real situation? The number of waiting lists by routine measures has multiplied from October 2017 to today. Controversy with many classes within the medical system has resulted in uncertainty and insecurity of all who rely on the same service. It's in the waiting list. Self - employed expert specialists are also maintained in uncertainty, all in the name of the system, that Marxic. My fellow Americans. Thousands of women wait between hope and fear for their fate because of failure to treat cervical screening samples. All experts have identified the dangers of continuing on in the same direction. But now, I'm listening to the highest. Health Minister not on specialists. It's not right in this case. V.E.G. A health minister is waiting for a council to complete a discussion. A case report has not yet been established. But we were assured that she would arrive at the latest last week. Doctors in the National Hospital Emergency Department say they can't guarantee the safety of patients. They have been forced to make a decision because of this. Conditions in the mental field of land hospitals are not open to anyone, nor to staff, nor to those who look there. The same can be said of the whole body of mental health, both those in need of service, and those serving within it have long pointed out this. A waiting list for medical conferences is considered to be weeks, even months, Mr. President. Medical therapists and psychologists are not really allowed to operate unless they hire larger rooms or institutions. The rehabilitation of the number of people is upset. Thousands of Icelanders suffer unnecessary suffering every day as a result of this condition, including workers who are expected to run faster during the shorter hours of work week. Still, people must travel a long way to get the necessary ministry. The government's giving each person how often each year. On the contrary, it is not apparent that those who need this long - distance approach should be met. This is what happens on the watch of the Left Green, with the Independence Party. But the government's answer is to introduce a long - term health service to appease the people in the country, so that the same service can be rendered to all. So the people of this country are discriminated against. And to top it all up, they proclaimed the highest power. A few months ago, the health minister of a so - called criminal abuse dose. I wondered today if it was the answer to the increase in cocaine, which has, for example, increased progressively since 2017. My fellow Americans. When it is chosen in September it will be chosen for building by Covid. Whether the country's population will grow stronger or continue under defense will be chosen. They will be chosen for the future of homes and employment. We have seen in this ideal period how divisive and lost government will do little in action when the goal is unclear but not to retain power. My fellow Americans. In the years that follow, how much people have between our hands and how we live under the welfare system of things will be chosen. We in the Central Party will present policies and measures that will be carried out. Iceland deserves it. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-07-108.u11	V.E.G. President. Good citizens of the country. It will be clear in the following days whether these will be the last days of this council, the last days that this assembly will meet before elections. We've been arguing about a lot of things in this terms since we first met here in December 2017, but we've also been lucky to stick together in times past. A new government promised that it would bridge the gap between political rivers and restore stability. It has stuck to it and showed the importance of having people who can build bridges and unite people for earnest interests. People who show that they understand the importance of teamwork, the importance of not being bigger than the past. We look forward to a better time in society. We have succeeded in fighting a pandemic, and most of us realize that the most difficult parts of the world are behind us. We were well - equipped to cope. It didn't come about by itself. If the current government had listened to the UN's economic proposals in recent years, neither government funds nor private sector would have had the power to cope with the problems of the past year. With quick response and careful action, we have been able to support homes and businesses. Now that we see a brighter time of vaccination, it is time to change the motion type. Changing the limits to opportunities and preventative measures to go because there is a time for building up. Now, it is time to shift the weight from the pandemic to a profit - making investment in the infrastructure, which is now supported by a wide range of job life. This is essential for us to rise up quickly from the downturn that has taken place. The wealth is not an inexhaustible resource, and without a powerful job life and significant activity, it is quickly emptied. We've been floating around with loans these past few years, but that's not a defenceful way to go. Therefore, we need to make sure that all situations are best chosen so that people and businesses can create the necessary value in order to live up to the standard of living that we have grown up to - and that we want to do even better. We need a concerted effort to do this, to get out of the low space. We in politics, which have the power to make rules and put spells, also have the power to reduce the burden of order, to lower taxes, to set priorities, and to manage public funds. In the present world situation, this is even more important. Hence, we need to take the lead in which this view of society, the economic regime, of a valuable creation. We need people who seek solutions, not in a crisis, but in a wise way make decisions, have the courage to fight for them, stand with them, and act. I think, for example. that the release of one's property in the banking system will prove successful, despite the fact that there are people around the council and elsewhere who feel that it is not right or that they can never find the right time to make such a decision. And I'm also happy these days to meet Americans here in the city that is now flocking to the country, grateful that Iceland alone has first invited vaccinated tourists, and now other countries follow our example. An honorable president here tonight is given 24 talks from 23 speakers. We hear different emphasis and perspectives on society, on assignments that are behind, and on the ones ahead of us. Some people are pessimistic, but I want to highlight all the possibilities for the future, the possibilities to do better and build up, to better control those who need help and to give big people both wings, and to build needed bridges so that we can use the powers and ideas that can be found across the country of people of all ages, ideas that have not yet developed but will lead us into the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-07-108.u12	Mr. President. My fellow Americans. One of the characteristics of right management is to attack observation centres and weaken those who are P.R.A. and arrange for more to be gained by those with much value. The present government is no exception. They have a new term for these actions. Before the epidemic struck, the Federal Board of Overseers had made a division in the Federal Bank and followed by a weakening of the Contestance Commission. The risk of blocking, integration of enterprises, wealth and power is high in the current situation. To weaken the Contestance Commission and to make less demands create an ideal situation for the dominant firm in a fair market and therefore is by no means the right way. Obviously, it goes against the public interest. At that time, a consumer's room was hollowed, and the office of the head of the IRS was laid down as an independent agency. Tax research is now being done in the tax ward, with milder evasion and uncertainty about who should investigate larger tax frauds. The Panama documents had a wide range of wealthy Icelanders and a complex investigation. The Samerian documents also require a extensive study of complex transfers and opinions in at least three countries. The interests of the public are not protected by cutting their teeth out of local tax research. But this isn't all. The government is eager to sell things in Iceland before the season ends, and before key questions about the future banking system have been answered; about a banking system designed to serve normal people and businesses in the long run, not short-term financial resources. After the sale, new owners can take steps to pay interest and to reduce loans. Thus the government has been targeted for those in charge of a large amount of money in this country. Again, in the United Nations, we have pointed out that the authority of few over fish resources gives them few additional power, and we have noted that their situation is abnormally strong against governments and the media. Their power can be harmful, and their effect on government decisions can be anti-police. This has been so clearly demonstrated recently by the Samherja documents and their applications: bribes, tax fraud, money fraud, and abnormal involvement in media and politicians. Valuable assets that have resulted from access to the nation's resources are passed on to a very small number of families. Aker of the resource, which should flow into a treasure and a sweat fund, and then to every child in the country and in the welfare system, flows almost exclusively into the pockets of builders and from there directly to their children. The government's special interest in the power and wealth of these people should be light, for it has done nothing to address obvious problems. The way of the Conspiracy to tenders, to increase equality, and to make temporary agreements is the best way to get out of this problem. The priorities of the next government must ensure that resource regulations in the constitution, which require full currency and time-separation. You can see it leaning heavily on us, the owners of the resource. And when the corruption issues are faced as a system breeds, the system will never be satisfied with changes that do not deal with the problem. We need a government that faces and dares to deal with corruption. My fellow Americans. The governments agreed on the last May of the budget for the next five years. Therefore, the joint policies of VG, independence party and advance for the next terms have come forward. We in the United States believe their course is basically wrong. They do not intend to improve the quality of disability or of older ones, and they do not intend to support their children more fully. They do not take care of their housing, nor do they show a lack of ambition for man - made climate measures. They're not going to take handsome checks in the health system or to have problems in the areas that have been worst in the pandemic. As equals us, we make another way. We want to increase jobs and increase green values. We want to ensure that we have access to health care and to support national security. And we will improve the ideals of children, disability, and older ones and reduce the degree of impairment that are not around us at all. With a righteous source of income, we will increase equality and prosperity. But the government prefers to overemphasize a certain debt ratio, which is already very low in all international comparisons. They're going to take the old cut-off route in the next term if they get to that position, a way that's going nowhere else. They have made a political decision to expand their balance and to make more money for rich men, if they are united in post-election power. It is in our hands, my fellow Americans, to prevent it. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-07-108.u13	Mr. President. Good citizens of the country. All of us rejoice that brighter times lie ahead, and the dark - minded people do not ruin that reality. By the interfaith power of the nation, we are passing through this unprecedented period of human life, which called for the solidarity of the nation in the strong hands of the State and the public defense under the administration of Katrín's Jakobsdóttir, not to mention all the unorthodox artists who have cheered the people at home when all assembly has been in the swamp. However, we Icelanders have done much better than many other nations, and thanks to it. We have an obligation to do all we can to assist the poor and war - torn nations in these difficult times and to take the lead and initiative in a peace - and - human struggle, because our voice matters. The future is hidden in our young people and their potential for family life, study, and employment, and enjoy well - prepared living conditions wherever they live in the land. We've extended the birthworm for 12 months, increased child care, and established sharing loans for young people, as well as a low income along with the construction of a common tenant, which ensures a safer home and a lower rent anywhere in the country. Social action in behalf of the elderly is widespread, and there are fewer incomes. These include the enormous structure of nurses, social isolation measures, the worst - hit income insurance, the reduction in health costs, and the step - by - step tax system. During the next term, there is an even greater need for us to meet the low income, the elderly, and the desperate ones, since we can do better there. Travel services have passed through the waves and have the measures that governments have taken in support of them make a big difference in the possibility of this article to straighten out the cow, now that the country is opening up again. The heavy unemployment that has affected people and companies in tourism is now reducing, and intensive employment markets have been of great importance. Everyone's advantage is that there is power all over the country. We left greens stress the importance of building good housing conditions with more efficient transport infrastructure, telecommunications, power security, a wide variety of health services, education, and innovations. There has been a huge initiative in infrastructure, and I predict that ahead of that country's settlements will be a great opportunity to take advantage of opportunities of more efficient fiber development, equal energy costs, telecommunications, and tools involving a digital work environment. All people, public and private sector, need to look outside the box and offer permanent work to the future anywhere in the country. Huge contributions to innovation are important and have brought new life into all kinds of innovations. New creation malls are rising in many parts of the earth by means of public parties and private members, including the U.S. is developing digital structures throughout the country, supporting the support of pioneers by means of a new creation puzzle. Emphasis has been placed on strengthening and strengthening domestic food production. The increase in funds has been made for climatic development, vegetable production, and innovations, which have become increasingly valuable and full - time products directly from farms. Food policy for Iceland has been adopted, which emphasizes the importance of national food production and the national food security. I'm impressed by the growth of seas. Have I been acting as director of a professional trade committee working on the promotion of the coastal fishing system by a transpiritian team on a professional staff committee during this terms of interest. A significant change was made in coastal fishing, where the daily world was established with increasing awareness of marine safety and equality between parts of the country. Such changes have resulted in great joy among sailors and the sea settlements. According to a report made by a professional employment committee, a strong coastal fishing system is one of the strongest rural structures in the less coastal areas. But now it is obvious that there is no chance that there will be no warrants for a beach fishing this summer. I challenge us for what? All council members responding to this end of the council by coming in here improve so that adequate resources can be assured not to be stopped by coastal fishing in the time of salvation. Good citizens of the country. When cows are let out during the summer, they get their hands on them. Everyone can't wait to walk out in the summer after long and hard Covid winters and maybe just pop out of their clovers too. I wish the people of the country a happy summer and may you enjoy it in the arms of the Icelandic natural world. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-07-108.u14	Dearest nation. As many of you were disappointed in the winter of 2017. After a quick campaign following two statesmen, we felt that it was time for change. We needed better politics, politics that listen to people, politics that make informed decisions based on evidence and light rather than on emotional and family relationships. Politicians who are associated with the nation but who do not keep money in tropical islands and choose their friends'spouses as judges. A government that would leave politics in the past and understand politics for the future. The winter of 2017 gave us the opportunity to accomplish this. Pirats and I were set down with groups that we thought were sharing this vision with us and could form a government that would include a new beginning, a new politics that had people and the future in the foregrounds of conversation with the nation, would validate the new constitution and achieve the necessary changes in the oceans. But that was not the result. Two groups of the contract table were deputized and formed a government with the group that is against all of this. The result, then, was a government on station, not progress. The result was four years of the same old politics, the same old method, the same old solution. Still, I was able to comfort myself by the fact that the government was at least under the seat of the daughter of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir. A connoisseur who burned for righteousness and spoke for progress must become a powerful counterweight with all that was going to happen. Good citizens of the country. The tone of voice for this government work was given immediately. In the first session of the winter of 2017, the prime minister of the media in nature did not say good or bad and at times had to sacrifice less interests for more. Today, almost four years later, we must ask ourselves, " What less interests did Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter offer in exchange for this government? ' Was the sacrifice of the new constitution less important than putting forward its own resource directives that will not alter the nation's marine resources? Was ignoring the results of national law more beneficial than less? Was it less important to raise pensioners from poverty traps and excessive taxation of much too low? Was it more important to send a woman out of a country who had walked 36 weeks by force to expel a pregnant woman and her infant son from the country despite strong objections from midwives? Were her interests my own? What about the Kehdr family, the Abdalla, Abdalla, Hamza, Rewida, Ibrahim, and Mustafa, a family that has adapted to Icelandic society, found work and friends but had to be hidden under the control of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Were their interests my own? How was it more important to defend the former Minister of Justice Distrust, the Minister of Justice, who was brought up by his own single - handed excommunication, and then to be convicted in the European Court of Human Rights? What great interests required that a secular minister remain in office despite apparently being unable to handle the largest fishing industry in later years? When the government laid down burdensome regulations for the nation's protection and health of the pandemic people, it was of no consequence that ministers themselves violated those rules. A position of counsellers will end up having greater interests than a solidarity with the nation, apparently being the prime minister's assessment, for at times less interests need to be sacrificed for more. At the beginning of the epidemic, there was a medical emergency, and at the end of the pandemic there is a medical emergency; the long wait list, the cancerskis in agitation, the nursing home on the verge of bankruptcy, the independent operating doctors close their rooms, and the Land Hospital continue to be cut down. But these are, of course, less interests that can be sacrificed, as do agreements with midwives and nurses. Good citizens of the country. In the winter of 2017, I was disappointed, but today I am amazed that the community had to undergo a four - year - long non - political experiment. We could have spent the last four years building better politics, politics that put people, their ideas, and their interests in the foregrounds, in which enlightened decisions, transparency, and direct democracys provide seriousness when rulers stray, create politics that can react rapidly to future challenges, politics that have always been the cause and will always fight for. We could have been finishing this terms by accepting the new constitution, but instead we had four years of sacrifices, sacrifices that didn't have to be performed, sacrifices decided to provide for the throne of power. Dearest nation. Four more important years, four valuable years. It matters how we choose. Will the restoration follow the epidemic on the basis of the future or further sacrifices? We have a choice.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-07-108.u15	A respectable president. Good Icelanders. In view of that eventful period, there are many things to take back. It has been a pleasure to see how the government of Iceland has managed to solve all the unexpected and massive tasks she has received with the storm in hand. She successfully passed the test, proving that by working with different categories and determined wills to cope with tragedy and succeed. The government has provided many targeted issues that will result in success and bring good things to the people in the future. Today, it is our responsibility to create a good future. The baseline value of the Agency is to create opportunities for all, regardless of place to live, gender and age. Making a future there for our children can flourish. Therefore, the candidates have fought for their maternity and fathers' vacations and have taken the lead in providing opportunities for all children. The new system modification with early intervention came from a great deal of work from the social and child - care minister. It was work that covered the terms of the season with the aim of improving the interests of all the children in this country who need services. This is a turning point in the lives of children, our future children. The discussion has a high level of health care during these days, with normal results after the previous articles. As a nation, we can be proud and joyful of our good health - care providers. It is not by itself, and we need to be careful of them. Health policy until 2030 was adopted during the senior term. The cornerstone of it was laid in the candidate's resolution arrangement adopted here at the General Assembly, a health service for all the people and equal to the services. So a new approach to health care, respect for older people, and support for independence must be made as long as possible. This should be a guide to the future. Then we need to be ready to take new steps in the medical system. Good health care can be guaranteed for all citizens of the country who have mixed government and private management. At the same time, innovation and telecommunication need to be ensured. Thus, more intensive health care can be maintained throughout the country. A respectable president. The fourth industrial revolution has had wings in the past few months. It gives us greater freedom to choose where we live far and wide throughout the country. Jobs without location, cooperation, and new employment opportunities are no longer limited to four walls of space in the capital area. The whole country is now under. As progressives, we know that the competitiveness of society turns toward a secure communications relationship. One of the main priorities of the advance party has been a good national telecommunications network. The category has established a more powerful policy since the beginning, and the Icelandic government has set out ambitious goals found in regional, communications, and transport programmes. The premise that the landscape is growing and prospering is a powerful urban policy, along with good communication and good road systems. That's key. My fellow Americans. When I arrive at work in the East Field in the morning, I'll be at my head at the son of Jón Sigurðsson, offering a good day, as if when two Westerns meet here on the street. He's our freedom hero, and that's why he was chosen a place in the East. But I've felt like he's also a symbol of the country in the pandemic. He's been standing there and he's still standing. The kingdom of the land, the sword, the shield. He looks out, picks up his jackets, doesn't move. He's not always treated with soy, he's scrawny, he climbs up on him, and he gets his speeches. But he looks ahead and stands this thing off. And like the Icelandan, he is honored once a year by a crown of flowers and beautiful words. The nation has endured such trials and more, looking forward to, being vaccinated, and optimistic. A respectable president. We look ahead with optimism and strength; it takes strength and courage to continue, to build on the good foundation that has been laid during the current ideal period. By cooperation and equality, we continue to be guided by personal growth. - Happy summer, my fellow Americans.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-07-108.u16	Mr. President. Good citizens of the country. The government intends to proceed after the election. Is that a good option? No, I say not. Let us consider some factors. Priceability has not been attained. The Penitentiary target is 2.5%, but inflation is now 4.4%. It's been over the goal of almost the entire ultimatum period. In Iceland, in all OECD countries, inflation has also increased proportionately. The record of unemployment has been evaluated, and at the same time, employment activities have never been less common. In Iceland again stands out, but here, unemployment has increased proportionately. We're on our way up. Icelanders typically enjoy a much higher interest rate than other European countries. We always pay for the Iceland layer. In Iceland, a growing process has begun. There we take a questionable lead in household and business management. Persistent inflation and rising growth are faced by young people who have reached the real estate market. The market hasn't been able to handle the demand, and real estate prices have gone up. Many have been excited by the bow and are likely to face great financial hardship in the future. The government's budget was in trouble for Covid. We warned a lot of things when we were responsibly. The government ignored this, but it says that over the next few years, there are tens of billions of effective measures to be made. These are trimmings for cutting and raising taxes. The picture you see is sad. The reign of the State has spread, the debt of state funds and foreign loans has increased. It doesn't take a very big plan to figure out who's going to pay the bill; it's you, fine Americans, if things don't get done right in the fall. Mr. President. We are going to turn the page over. The responsibility of public funds is to be focused. We should not be afraid to examine the government's activities, whether in public or in private matters. A clear policy should be taken to ensure the quality, efficiency and effectiveness of public investments and management. This will be one of the bigger and more difficult subjects of the coming years. New births are necessary for us. We need strong companies, driven by intelligence that create valuables for exporting. They must increase and speed up their structure to grow here and to thrive. This results in a variety of economic lifes that create prosperity and withstands economic tragedy. There is a need for clear measures in the environment and climate. We do this by means of our business. With ambitious investments in green technology, green motivations, and innovations. In this way, we use the power of the free market economy to reduce emissions dramatically. Care must be taken to ensure that economic and green catalysts do not lead to tax gains but, rather, a transfer of state income stocks. New creation is a permanent subject, not a short - term treatment for a crisis. The long term support environment will be received. A stable and competitive growth environment is fundamentally essential. The Icelandic dollars cannot handle this project. That's why we need Euro. Mr. President. The ideals for peace, prosperity and cooperation in nations are the core of the European Union. Today's work and future demands that we do not sit by but sit at a table with sovereign and independent states that have undergone the difficult task of working together on environmental, health, equality, and economic issues, to name something. And that is why Iceland is to be joined in the European Union. - Good Americans. Happy summer and a happy fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-07-108.u17	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. Is it not gross financial violence to pay taxes and reduce income and pension pay for the disability and elderly in the social security system by 75% and up to 100%? Maintaining 26,000. or less, even nothing, left in every 100,000 dollars. it's not just taxes and impairment, it's only a gross possession. Why has a government by the government in recent decades built and maintained such an historic system? This is what happens, despite repeated promises for elections to change this inhumanally, rough system of property that is leading people directly to an inexhaustible state. Legally, a deposit fund of pension is used to reduce the tax pay of public security right after the first 25,000 bucks. The most severe and harsh of those to be least dealt with, the low - paying men, of which women are the largest group. Why is it all turned upside down in this mindless, unsettled system of social security, a system established by governments in the last few decades, maintained and made so complicated on purpose that only computers can calculate a chain-based impairment to the worst and send them directly into very limited items? At the same time, the people who have made money on the nation's common resources pay little or nothing for the excess tax. They are not taken away in the decrease or chain reaction of the billions of vegetation. A group of people says: "The people first and immediately spread poverty in Iceland. My fellow Americans. The government budget for the next four years clearly shows that the terms of the worst in the social security system will get worse if the same government continues to rule after the election. The only increase to those who are trying to reach the target in the system is an index increase. There's no correction on the husk of the past few years, the fatty face that's now 50%. That's what those in social security are supposed to do. The survival will increase even more in the administration of governments for the next four years. Then there are countless tax increases that have resulted from the failure of personal discounts in the country. This, along with increased chain - carrying declines, has led to the worst in our rich society to live on some 200,000 bucks. month after taxes and impairment. The government restored a cent to a decrease in a group of older people who are the worst in the social security system, older people who have only 90% of minimum pensions. It's amazing that the government is willing to pay millions for taking that understatement, a dollar against a dollar, back up. Why? It is so strangely economic violence that this hungerer is taxed and more than the profit of rich people who are growing richer while the poor become poorer and are less likely to have food or drugs. V.E.G. The prime minister foretold the last election that now their worst time was in our society, those groups could no longer wait. But they're still waiting. In turn, increased chain-mortem impairments have been observed. Why is there no money on the part of rich people who are not paid taxes and who are down 753/4,100 percent, like the pension pay of social security and pension funds? Why is 350,000 dollars? a month and a month of non-status minimum progress? Why is a monthly average of $105,000 not updated for about $250,000?? Why is the finite market for pensions not at least 100,000 dollars? a month instead of $25,000.? A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. Government government administration has built up this miserable social security system and maintained it with increased impairments, putting in thousands of dollars of dollars into the chain damage system that flows through the pockets of disability and older people and directly back into the state fund. All that's left is a pair of nickels in their pockets worst set if they're so lucky. 5 billion a year on the increase in decline and, therefore, 20 billion in increase over four years in government regulations. A respectable president. My fellow Americans. Where are we gonna get the funding? asks the highest. The secretary of finance when matters of the worst - set group of older people and desperate people come up with. He does not ask where we should get the money when a government fund receives hundreds of millions or billions of pets from private media, minimaries, or other pets. The health system is at the very edge of the system, waiting lists are being prolonged, designers and job colds are becoming a major problem, and a large group of health care professionals were not negotiated. Nurse homes have also reached the limit. Children have no clear right to the necessary services, and it is absurd that about 1,000 children are on the waiting list for service. Mentally sound children and young people should be priorities. Children in poorer, older citizens in limited numbers, unemployed, low - paying workers - are not time for reasonableness and justice for all, that all are equal in terms of law and are granted rights, and especially that children are guaranteed the protection and care that their well - being requires? People first, then all the other stuff, tell the crowd. - Good Americans. Have a good time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-07-108.u18	Mr. President. Good citizens of the country. Much of what has been defined by the global struggle against a Korean epidemic is due to the end of the election period. The U.S. has done better than many people in battle with the disaster despite the flagrant response of the government during the epidemic. Present - day governmental opposition is especially a factor in the success of being responsible and firm. Now that the end of the epidemic is at hand, more employment, more value production, and improved lifestyles of all society are needed. That's good. During this election period, the government has completely forgotten several social groups. This includes: Think of older ones, disability, and young people. The older citizen's national relationship put in five meeting cases recently. It is a pleasure to relate that the Central Party has repeatedly proposed terms involving three of these five struggles: the length of working hours of a citizen's service, the loss of employment income, and a special law on the affairs of the elderly who ensures a simpler system and user-friendly service to the group. The other two key factors are contained within the direction of the party introduced at his district convention for the weekend under the motto: from retirement to the rest of his life. The policy is that services to older people will become a bonding chain in which one link receives from another, secure rights, and standard of living people without the older people and the rest of the fighting in the course of course of this less significant group. It includes vitality and physical activity, psychological services, increased home service, new farming resources, and so forth. The band has also repeatedly ordered that in return a cent of disability be stopped and that they can enjoy what they have to do with their work. Good citizens of the country. Young people today do not have the same potential. The school system does not respond to the call for changing emphasis. As it is now, the school system is not suitable for boys. In a new educational age, there is not one word about the trouble boys have in studying. It also does not contain one word about an independent, active school at all levels of study. There's work to do for a new government to set new policies for engineering and technology ahead of other things, as well as to speed up and promote professional relations so that people can find ways to study suitable and interested. That's good. Young people are also under attack in other areas. It is becoming increasingly difficult for this group to cover their heads with roofs. An unreasonable payment plays a major role in this regard. There is no benefit in any new social security resources in the capital area. This is why resources are too narrow, and growths are not enough. Young people in Reykjavík also have problems because Reykjavíkurborg has been able to build a school. So the young people flee the capital and settle in nearby communities. A year - long building is an adventure similar to that of the Central Party and of the Southnes, and in Alfusi, people are growing much more than in Reykjavík. It is, therefore, possible to thank the chairman of the United States for warning voters by their intention to establish a government in the spirit of the city of Reykjavík, which leaves its capital on the brink of bankruptcy. Let us guard against the same fate as the treasure of the Kingdom. Good citizens of the country. There is, however, some danger that the current left control will remain. Courts pay the independence party and the forwarding party do not prevent left control. The only guarantee that there will be a civil government protecting Iceland's sovereignty and security is that the Central Party will be elected well this fall. The middle class does not operate in ways to select partners. There's the policy and the emphasis on a trip. Cognitiveism and reason are the cornerstones of the Middle Party. Mr. President. This speech cannot be completed without thanking the staff of the Generals for their adventurous success in this epidemic and ensuring that the Council could work here without delay, as in a normal year's journey. It'll be late. That's good. I challenge you to study the direction of the Middle Party, which is found on the team's home page and wish you and your happy summer, and that you have a good summer. Let's celebrate the future together.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-07-108.u19	V.E.G. President. Good Icelanders. When we are free, we are free first to accept what is most popular and when we stop trying to please everyone all the time. When we remain loyal to our own convictions and have the courage to follow them, we are free. When we take responsibility for our own destiny and choice, we are free. And when we feel trusted, we are free to say and act. It's interesting. For example, we must never become so dependent on the public that we become victims of the systems. The systems that build obstacles and obstacles that rob people of freedom of choice and that are driven by government officials. That's not interesting. It is too often discussed that the public needs to interfere with people's affairs without urgent need. Some may be tempted to think that the public Rocks are free of charge, such as gifts from heaven, and that they have no commitment. That's wrong. Everything that comes from the government runs out of common funds and can pledge us for a long time in a variety of ways. Therefore, we are to have, by the least, a state-change and to minimise the regulations and regulations of the administrations. We should trust the people, not distrust them. Because of the confidence of the people, communities flourish. As a result of their state - of - state reversal, they are burdening their nation's lives. On the other hand, the power of the government can be of good support to the communities, both by supplying space and oxygen, by lowering spells, by building up infrastructures, and also by catching the ones whose legs are on. That's what we did last year. The government supported the people and their professional lives in the face of disaster, and they're returning. In my kitchen - day talk a year ago, I was deeply concerned about progressive unemployment, especially in my home group, the Southnes. The reports now show that the companies have reassigned their staff, even several hundred people at once, and that is a cause for rejoicing. Such reimbursement would not have occurred if we had not supported our job life at the time of need. Then these companies would not be there and hence no jobs for the people. Thus, the success of both parties is shared and the basis for a more powerful resistance to society. The freedom of choice and the responsibility are also toward the family. We should not set laws here that limit its freedom of choice, as for example, when it was tried to take all the time from parents to share their birth vacations. It doesn't matter if it's done for a good purpose, such as increasing equality. Today, people are equalistic, and they can be trusted to make it their own. Another example of government intervention in the lives of families is when institutions claim to know better about the welfare of children. Parents know best about their children's best interests. Families should not stay long in waiting lists after identifying the official of the child's problem and the appropriate service. The same is true when a child goes to school in the morning. This continues to be the responsibility of parents and schools, not to take over the child's training. We need to take special care of this, for many find it convenient to care for public institutions, but they do not always know best. Good Icelanders. We go to meet the summer and can see the future brighter than we did a year ago. We stood together in times of trial, and it is my faith that in the next few years, there are many opportunities for innovation and evolution, just that. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-07-108.u20	Good Icelanders. Already the end of the pandemic is like a veil or a mask removed from our face, and we need to face the challenges we face. A project that some have hibernate over the epidemic or have been deliberately put aside in the shelter of Covid, which has, unfortunately, been used as an excuse not to get big issues through here at the General Assembly. Everyone knows the climate and the environment are the major projects. How sad it is, then, that a fundamental issue in the government contract on the part of the left green, central nation park will not be reached through this council four years later! The case was one of the biggest, if not the largest VG cases in the development of the government, and many rejoiced that at least this old battle was under attack. It is not that a pandemic has prevented the Middleland park from being a reality, but another sort of plague that is opposed to the Independence Party and the forwarding Party. Because the pandemic has not prevented the heart of the other classes, such as plans for selling Iceland Bank or the subsidizing of an IRS investigator. My fellow Americans. The climate and environment have been held hostage in the Independence Party throughout this ideal period. They have concluded that ambitions were small, small steps taken, and no radicals permitted. And sad to say, the group leading at the government table has lost many of the major political environments. These include road construction, for example, by special laws, and in addition to protecting the environment. No clear political line has been published because of activation plans in Whale River on Beach, but instead of relying on law tracks and judgments to delay the case. More than a year began to ban plastic bags use, which was a fairly simple EEA input, which countries such as Albania had long completed in advance of Iceland, leaving aside a real resource directive. Ladies and gentlemen. The year 2020 was to be the beginning of a decade of action on climate. And while the pandemic has moved on to that account, our neighboring countries have shown that they are quite serious by highlighting a green front and green restoration out of Covid-19. Such measures have been carried out here. Here, action against climate change needs to be clear, not hairy. Our goals need to be higher and ambitious. Investment in green, climate-friendly action needs to be greater. More money is needed for research and innovation. Technology has to be eliminated through climate targets. Public transport needs much more energy, and energy exchange has to go faster. The restructuring of the tourism services should be supported by sustainability. You see, Iceland has so many opportunities to lead in environmental and climate activities, and that does not mean talking about the repair of the heat system more than 70 years ago, but it means looking at our endless future prospects. The transition from climate change must also be reasonable. For example, an ambitious climate - related plan can produce a number of jobs, be successful in wrestling with inequities, and aim for noncarbonization. My fellow Americans. The worldwide epidemic has increased inequity and has shed light on our weaknesses and injustices. Sadly, some have used the epidemic to undermine international cooperation. At that time, the core value of human rights, freedom, and equality must be maintained. International cooperation has been the key to the response to Covid. Without European cooperation, we could not have provided access to the same amount of vaccines. The World Health Organization has been uplifted, and the cooperation of scientists and experts in the development of vaccine has proved the value of international cooperation. But the challenges of international cooperation take place in such extreme projects as climate change, the common struggle for increased social justice, and our preparation for the digital revolution. Our Community countries in the European Union have been led in green restoration operations, but also in bringing together different European countries to agree with a deal on the issues of refugees. And those Icelandic politicians who speak down our responsibility when it comes to welcoming refugees should think of their own way. You see, our responsibility is moral and humanitarian. It is about respecting human rights and honoring those who are in the lowest position to flee from their homes because of war, climate change, or extreme poverty. A community of those who speak down our collective responsibility to welcome people to flee with open arms. It is not politics that improve society or quality of life. It is the politics of hatred and fear, the injustices and the outwards. Children who run are not criminals. Family members who want peace and quiet are not gangs of crime. Foreign affairs involve international cooperation, human rights, respect for the laws and regulations and the authority of democracy. That's where we're supposed to be. Not curved and frightened, not nurture fear and isolation, but stand in the back, open, and full of confidence in the international field. My fellow Americans. May the next summer months bring us better health, quality of life, optimism, joy, and good socialism after the elections to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-07-108.u21	Mr. President. It's a great Senate home. Good citizens of the country. I am standing here on the kitchen day at the end of the council giving my final talk on behalf of the council. This was sometimes my job as a rookie here at a council like 36, 38 years ago, and I have to say, I like to stand back in the same spot on my last kitchen day. First of the Allied Parliament, the highest and oldest of the country's institutions and of whom I have devoted my strength to considerably more than half the days of my life. The Treaty of the present government made it new that this was to promote the Council. To these words, I have proved to be private, and I appreciate the government's gratitude for the cooperation on that subject. Committees have been promoted and the management and surveillance of the committees particularly with the advice of three additional experts, two lawyers and one economist. The Parliament's Law Office has been promoted by an additional legalist's office. All 17 new helpers have been promoted by members of the Parliament and, at the same time, by means of financial foundations. Most of the 6400 m2 office building, nuclear building, will completely repair work conditions here when the Council restores its entire operation to its own roof and saves it to 100 million. K. Each year at housing costs. Trust in the United States has developed in a positive way over the last two years, springing up a total of 16 percentage points. I owe it to the General. It has been successful, now during the last 15 months of the crowning season, functionlessly working as a clean addition to normal employment by 60 basics and terms of Congress that we category as Covid. The General Assembly is to be commended, much less than more, so not to mention the staff of the Generals, who have shown great strength and perception. The trust and respect of the Generals are acquired things, and now I speak, or what. Senators, into our own crew. On the other hand, as normal as it is to be faced and to criticize something that is critical, it is harmful and unsatisfactory to call out the Allied Council as an impossible job that it is not, and to speak down its own work on the way. Let's do it. It's an honor to be a member of the Icelanders. The people chosen here are being shown great confidence. The most important community service of the democratic system is therefore committed. Many are the challenges of the future, and most important is the climate crisis, where our responsibility for the present generation is the most. But there are other threats. It is sometimes said that the first thing that dies in war is the truth. But it seems to me that wars or armed conflicts do not necessarily require that the truth die or lie at least. ... incorruption. Engaging information and false news that flow around the world in the power of technology is a very dangerous democracy. It is also surprising how international wealth companies watch us every move, gather an enormous amount of information on people's private interests, and then mismanage them. The most dangerous thing is if the two beats together. I guess it will be the same with computer technology, artificial intelligence, and all that and the funding that it is a dangerous master even if it can be useful as a servant. Good listeners. Now, the most beautiful time of the year, the uninhabited spring world in Iceland, and it's going to be ours in more than one sense. We're seeing ahead of the epidemic, the wheels spinning faster and it lives on. I think it's a public rumor that goes far beyond the cliffs, that Iceland's government has chosen a wise way through this catastrophe, and it's been successful. Of course, it's all very unambiguous, but the main thing is that the outcome will be good and that it will draw everything in Iceland at this time. Peace and harmony are always the most precious jewel in every household, in every community, and it does not matter what amount of worthless things you weigh. The general and broad convergence that has characterized the atmosphere in Iceland during the past 15 months is a well - mannered country. Mr. President. Good citizens of the country. I appreciate your audition. I offer good night to those who intend to go to rest but wish the good sport who might accept to stay on the bright light. There's a lot more stupid than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-07-108.u22	Ladies and gentlemen. As the election begins, it is good to review the difficult lessons that many learned after the election. So we often, who were candidates for the left greens at the time, said that it was important who is in charge. But much less was said about the importance of who was in charge. Almost four years ago, I stood in front of my new partner at the VG party council and explained why I could not support this government. It was not simple or easy. In the hall in front of me, my friends, people who spent long and often exhausting days in a campaign. We had walked into houses together, baked tables, distributed booklets at the mall, but now I was standing in front of my friends, saying that I didn't like every platoon leadership I wanted to go. Some felt that the government was a bold decision, even thrilling one. So I disagreed. It would simply be too far between the classes to achieve the actual changes we called after, which occurred during the day. Even cases that were to be well protected in the government covenant have been difficult during the election season, as can be seen. alone is explained in the highland park, where opposition has been the most prevalent within the administration force. The fear I expressed for my associates was also that the band would be too united. Between the lines of the Law covenant, it was noted that the leadership had strayed from its roots as advocates of workers. That's exactly what happened. The government began to crush down monitoring agencies, provide tax appeals to capital owners, and today a private bank in the foul nationality of the nation. These harsh elements of the pro-employers of the Independence Party have been allifier in economic response to Covid. This is the new rhythm that the band found with new troops, but we who want radical and righteous changes in society had to look somewhere else. Of course, political compromises need to be made. Of course, political discussions and mutual solutions are needed, but compromises must never be at the expense of the baseline values represented by politicians. When the media begin to be a goal in themselves, because people find it so exciting to bridge between them as the most distinct poles, it is not to improve the politics but rather to rock the water. In the cloudy water, governments are constantly finding themselves in a position where they say they're going to do better than they don't really do. It's going to blow up like that. Because of the fact that we've never invited so many people to our country, but last year, 100, when there were a real number of people in the year at 0. It's a big fan of its policy on climate, but when it's slided up in the basement, it's a bit non-establishment, because the result of the endless media groups that are basically against each other. Half of the contribution to climate goes to subsidies of cars to the busiest part of the community, so that policy does not guarantee the righteous transition we need. Rather than increase the ever - increasing ambition of the climate as science calls them, we are stuck in the same place that the government decided for 2017. And instead of blowing on the offensive, setting their own ambitious climate goals, they took the initiative to the European Union and waited. ▪ Don't vote Outdoor or Independence Party, because if you do, all the way to hell, Ragnar Kjartansson sings for one election. What we've learned from this ideal period is that it was not just an exhaustive list of Ragnar. There are huge elections ahead where we have to choose groups that do the same after election as they say they intend to do before elections. Conventional political media do not control the greatest challenges of the day. It's been a season, and this strangely quiet government has taught us. And traditional compromises are completely out of control on climate issues. They would require political agreements with the laws of nature, and nature simply does not listen to such compromises. We need a new job. We need a new political approach. That's why I joined Pirata earlier this year, because in order for the next government to bring real and necessary changes to the community there, Porta needs a table, not because we thirst for power, but because since the first day, Piranians have been in charge of another kind of politics, politics based on honesty and radicalness, politics that stand for something, and therefore know that it is not possible to take control of anyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-07-108.u23	A respectable president. Good Icelanders. We're at the end of this season. We look back and look over our path. What will we do? How did we deal with the challenges we faced? Can we be happy with our work? One of our most important tasks is to maintain and extend earth wide. Much has been done in this regard. There have been major transport campaigns, and during the term, 189 billion have been spent on transportation. This is an increase of an average of 17 billion per year compared to the previous four years. Roadmaking, ports, airports. This is a conversion from what used to be. In fact, there were no airports for years. Both the air station and the airport are being extended to Akureyri. In addition to the maintenance of airports in many parts of the country, the construction of the Láll Zone is ahead. At that time, the air bridge is one of the most magnificent settlements in later times and is much equal to the situation of those who live away from their capital. Then Iceland's campaign with light-related results have truly been successful. This year is the end of the campaign, and the inhabitants of the scattered regions can enjoy high - speed connections. Department loans have received a very positive welcome from buyers investing in their first estate across the country. Loyalty is a cooperation site on national housing, and today 36 companies are involved in the project, 439 apartments and a total investment of 11 billion. The delivery security of electrical energy has been greatly improved by the renewal of the distribution system in rural areas, and 70% of the Raiik's distribution system is already in the ground, and the whole system is being targeted. A construction agency provides loans to employers in the country, and such loans support the development of employment in the country. This is all a valid task to ensure further housing conditions for the inhabitants of the country. My fellow Americans. The very foundation of all society is based on primary production, which leads to prosperity. The benefits of all the different areas of the country are closely linked to the scattered settlements and therefore need to be reinforced and strengthened locally with emphasis on the use of the land and the sea in a sustainable manner. If we want Icelandic agriculture to flourish, we must nurture biodiversity and support organic farming directly from farms and small manufacturers. At the same time, economics must be sought and a reasonable frame of the large productions that serve the masses. It has hardly been overlooked for any domestic retail market competition to come from outside, and the vast majority of the food exported to the country without tolls. Societys are different and have different interests. We don't all have the same opportunity. Let the inhabitants shape their future and take advantage of opportunities, whether in large or small communities. That is a prerequisite for young people to see opportunities. Social resistance is to make wise use of the opportunities the country has to offer. We fishermen believe that the prosperity and prosperity of all settlements in Iceland, large and small, stand and fall by providing valuables from the intellectual and natural resources that were given to us. On this basis we build our cooperation and well - being. It's our job, the Lawgiver, to create the setting so that agriculture can develop for the better. Let us lay hold on one thing and work it together as a nation for our good. The convention has been and will always be the advocate of future people. My fellow Americans. The password is work, growth, well - being.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-07-108.u24	Good citizens of the country. In the final analysis, economic issues revolve around the daily lives of people. Economics are about to take shape in the country and the future project is that Iceland will compete with the rest of the world's way of living. I'd like to refer to the Iceland area, the interest in the mortgages that people deal with here in real estate. The reason is, as we know, a U.S. dollar. Similarly, protection on the basket is not physical laws, but there are considerably higher household expenses here than there are in neighboring countries. Farms and food are a big interest in the homes of the country. It is a matter of public interest that can be solved by allowing more liberal forces, which do not automatically say no to all changes just because sometimes changes rock the boat with the special interests. However, there is a major legacy of the government in the medical matter where the government has instituted the 11th command to honor central management every day. As a result, Iceland's record is waiting for health care. Over 1,000 children wait for diagnosis and services. Wait which lasts up to 36 months. Three years in a child's life is a fat part of youth. Today there are conditions that threaten women's health after organizational changes in cervical cancer screening. There's been talk of attaining health, but this has not been enough for the government to kick back. The older ones are waiting, too. The waiting lists are extended in nursing homes, replacement operations, and after the services of physical therapists and psychologists. In fact, waiting lists are especially long in the country. Waiting lists are not a new problem, but the trend to extend them is new. You see, the management board is targeted in a system-rate policy that increases costs, e.g. by moving patients to Sweden in three-fold more expensive measures. And these expenditures go to the top. Secretary of finance. We all agree that the availability of health care should be balanced between all, regardless of the economy and the habitat. Bioavailability and service should be the 11th commandment. A waiting list of children for health care and support must be mentioned at the highest level. Children's Minister of Affairs, talking about the need to talk to each other. But everything you need is the highest. Minister of child care and the highest. Your health minister will talk to you. That the government is talking. I could also talk about silence. Minister of child care when sending babies to Greece. We need a justice minister, and we need a child - care minister who is on the run with children. As for the interests of young people, I want to name the school system as well. We want opener and varied school systems. And how good it would be if a minister of education were to have his time on that assignment rather than a court case with a woman who just sought justice after his wrongs! The district has confirmed the minister's law, but the Minister has chosen to present this case in appeal in third round, all the way before the National Court. Sad to say, this case is not just at our expense, it is run in the name of the Icelandic state, in the name of us all. Good citizens of the country. At first, I realized that in the end, our daily lives are changing the economic situation. The key questions of the campaign are how we want to see Iceland grow as a community and as a matter of living people. How to increase the value and outlook for Iceland. In return, a community where people have as much opportunities as they can be used for public interests, liberalness, and freedom is achieved as Iceland is equal to other sovereign countries in Europe. That's what makes us the best.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-07-108.u25	A respectable president. A group of people have never changed rhythms since day one, when we had the privilege of speaking here from the highest public speaker of the country and representing those who have been silenced and hidden in the community. We don't have any campaign plans, we haven't changed anything, we want to eliminate poverty. We want more equations in the community. We want reasonableness. A righteous society should be a heart issue to all of us. If you, my fellow citizen, would like to build a bridge between the rich and the poor, if you want to round up these two nations and have one nation in the country, if you want to fight poverty, injustice, misdirection, then you'll continue to put your arms around the people and make them bigger and stronger so that we're not just measuring for our cases that are swept off the board but gets to follow them and make them happen. It is in your hands, my fellow Americans, to help us eliminate poverty, for we are only here for you and only here to do so.
