ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u1	Borist's letter has been from Óli Björn Kárason, the 10th. We're out of here. " that he will not be able to do any congregational work in the near future. Thus, on Tuesday, December 21, Arnar Þór Jónsson, who serves as a deputy for him, takes his place at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u2	Arnar Þór Jónsson's letter has already been investigated and agreed, but he has not previously taken his place in the Council, so his commitment to the Constitution is to be signed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u3	Arnar Þór Jónsson has signed his commitment to the constitution and is welcomed to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u4	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. Congress, about the length of a meeting, suggests that a meeting meeting can last longer than the Senate dictates. Is there a vote for this proposal made by the president? If not, it is approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u5	To answer these questions, Prime Minister, Minister of Wood, Scientific, Industrial and Organic Ministers, Social and Employment Ministers, Foreign and Development Ministers and Health Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u6	Madam President. For another year, I've called for a vision from the highest. Prime Minister on how to cope with the current epidemic situation. V.E.G. In fact, a minister has not really answered those inquiries except to point out that this is a big uncertainty, it may come up with new variants, etc. But now it has even been the highest. A minister of finance calls for a vision of his own government to deal with this future situation. Of course you're right. The prime minister that viruses have the potential to change, and new variants are visible. And although I'm not an expert in these studies, you heard early in this epidemic that there was a chance that the virus would continue to develop and be less contagious than at the same time. As a result, viruses develop all the time. So it was pretty predictable. It's one thing and another that's at the highest. Ministers and the government can plan. For example, although the number of infected people is rapid, even as they have been over the last few days, it would take years for all Icelanders to have been infected. The answer is, It's all about the pressures on the health system and that we keep it in place that the system is able to cope. My main question to the highest. Prime Minister, in addition to the first question of a vision, as follows: Is it possible that the State is increasingly looking to others who can reduce the pressure of the Land Hospital to provide the various services, including the purchase of replacement operations, to mention an example, which in itself includes a great increase in practicality and helps with the way the health care system handles other matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u7	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. However, his claim is not true, that this has not been a clear view from the beginning of the struggle with the epidemic. It is the clear view that Iceland is a group of top nations when it comes to how we have succeeded in this struggle, whether it is considered the percentage of vaccinated, the number of deaths, or the success of economic action. The clear vision appears at the beginning by means of an attempt to suppress the virus at its best but at the same time ensures that society's course. After vaccination, but many, including Yeah. A senator, who had doubts about government plans, and yet all of them, has been beginning to change, i.e. to control the growth of infected people. You're right. A senator says; now we're dealing with another variant, the ultrasound variant, and that's a considerable uncertainty, such as the cog. A senator knows, I know he watches the foreign news carefully, and he sees what measures governments are taking in many lands. It's clear that the ultrasound variant spreads rapidly. We can only see that in the countries around us, and we can see it in the models our scientists have developed. On the other hand, we can also see that this causes less illness. However, this does not change the fact that the level of infectious agents that appears to be the same always means that a certain rate is seriously affected by the need for hospital services. And then I come to the second question why. A senator, who includes the possibility of reducing stress from the hospital by other means. That's all I can say, but that's exactly what's been done. Here he mentions replacement operations, and here it stands to open a replacement site at Aclin, which I think is extremely important to ease stress. Besides that, contracts have been made with just different parties to help reduce stress from the hospital.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u8	Madam President. V.E.G. The minister may tend to pretend that the minister does not know exactly what is being asked. I'm asking about the government's political vision of the future, some forethought, some stage shots of how the epidemic will develop for the next year and even for the next few years. Even the highest. Secretary of finance, chairman of the largest administration party, has begun to ask the same question, probably the highest level. The apparent prime minister, along with the apparent left movement, is in charge of what they want in this government. I had a place to say here a few days ago at the highest level. Secretary of finance on the very latter part of my questions, whether should increasingly seek out the services of those who can provide it in a good way and in a practical way to relieve the hospital. V.E.G. Once more often, a minister seemed to respond well to this inquiry, but it seems that the coast on the left green, which is acting out in this administrative capacity and knowing what they want to do. [[The president calls.]] So I reiterate previous questions: Do we get a vision of the future, like the highest. Secretary of the budget calling for it? And he's got the highest. The secretary of finance is authorized to make greater use of services elsewhere?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u9	Madam President. In view of the situation, I reviewed the vision that we have achieved the goal of vaccination. Iceland now stands in the first place when we compare ourselves with the neighboring countries on booster vaccination, which will be of great importance as a protection against this new species and also against other variants. So it does not change that uncertainty still exists as to how serious this abnormality can be to those who contract it. There is some evidence that this ratio is around 0.7%. However, this vision has remained clear, and it knows why. A senator was well - versed. He also knows well that the results we have obtained are good international. All I'm asking is, "Why?" A senator resents how he has successfully coped with the epidemic? Of course, in terms of negotiations with other parties, I could count a few things, but maybe the highest. The health minister will see better to that effect. I mentioned the former business site, I also mentioned agreements with other parties such as the Covid Department at Eir and other such parties who have just been called upon to negotiate to reduce the pressure from the hospital. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's not that anyone allows anyone anything. It's just that it's been wise to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u10	A respectable president. How happy we are that our union is going to pay for the price of Christmas to microadolescents at 53,500 dollars, tax, and inadequacy! People certainly remember this payment. But there are others who need help. Many pensioners live under the poverty line and find it difficult to make ends meet on a normal annual trip, let alone Christmas in the middle of the Covid. Covid-19 has the same effect on the elderly and on many others. Many of them are already microcreatists, who earn little from pension funds. In addition, when they moved from disability to a pension and had to live at 220,000 bucks, they lost their age - related compensation. down payment. Then there are many who have 90% of the striped pensions due to poor living conditions. But we must meet these groups with comparable payment. And don't forget that this group is the only group that was recently passed about a dollar in return - again. The people's party intends to make changes in budgets so that three minimum incomes of a pensioner receive a monopolitan payment that the same money as the poor, tax-and-less. Very much. The Minister of Social Affairs supports the changes in the people's proposals to face the severe plight of the sensibilities the least earner? Is it not also easy to support this group?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u11	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for the inquiry and agree with him that it is a happy conclusion that a financial committee all suggested a monopolitan payment for microenergy pensioners. I thank those who called, thank their position of government work and their management sector work, my communicators, and the representatives of the more part of the budget. What a fine conclusion that was! Then we'll have to finish this quick, like a rough one. A senator knows. It would be nice to announce to the Congress that this has been done by a insurance agency since the weekend, and we hope it will run out as quickly as possible. But I'd like to continue stressing that we look at the global restructuring of the system. We've been too much in recent years, no matter how much of this monologue we've been staging the system. There's too much impairment on the other side. This is what I'd like to make priority in cooperation with the micro-organization team and those who are disabled. This question is about one payment for older people, and I would like to remind you that they have been paid six months of compensation to this group; it is actually divided in two; one in the spring, when holiday pay is paid and the other is paid in December. There was an additional social support for those who have been remembered among older people last year or year after year. So I'd like to point out that there have been steps taken, and then we've preached a reassessment of the system as well among older people. But there is a suggestion of this subject. A senator will be expected to be taken here for Congress and inspection.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u12	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. But this group was also left behind. This group has not received any support in Covid. It's a very sensitive group. It's a group of invalids who have become a pensioner. It's a group of people with reduced farms and, as I said before, they get 10% less than the lowest pension and a cent against a dollar's impairment. I'm asking myself, isn't there equal? Isn't there justice? Should we not make sure that we are not always leaving someone out? Is it not the time for older ones - we are talking about elderly people and even sick elderly ones - to show them respect that at least they are receiving the same things that we are now giving to the poor?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u13	V.E.G. President. I want to thank the senator again for the discussion here and just repeat what I said earlier. I think we all realize that among older people, there are people who are in disproportionately, just like those of micro-energy pensioners, and more people than there are in these two groups. For me, the challenge is to cope with poverty among the populations where it exists, whether it is in older people, poor people, those with the lowest salary or a job search. It's a huge project that I hope we can get together here at the General Assembly during this terms, and we're looking at it increasingly in our decisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u14	A respectable president. The only handmade and updated change in the social security system announced in the government's administration covenant is an increase in the payoffs of older people's income. It's a procedure that benefits 3% of a pensioner, that's 1,300 people, and it runs mainly to the highest level of income. These are 67% men, 33% women. On the other hand, all the people who can no longer work and rely on pensions and pension payments are left behind. There's women in much more of it. It's even The people who have worked tirelessly for their lives; this is the nurse, the builder, the nurse, the sailor, the people who need their health because of their being committed to retirement more often than many others. What will the government do for these people? These people are left behind with eight times below the standard of vacation, and they will continue to shrink back from paying people according to the government's financial bill. Where is the respect for all these people? What kind of priorities is this? I think it would be appropriate to do the highest. The prime minister would come up here and give them some explanation. It might even be used to speak specifically to rich women and to explain why supporting men is so much more important to the government to support the highest income groups and why it is far more important to support men than to women. And then it's just this whole context that shows up in these changes in social security laws and holiday boundaries.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u15	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jónsson's query. First there's an answer, and I don't know which. A senator knows the changes made in the social security system for older citizens here during the last term, that these changes were made after a very detailed job. Social Affairs Ministers, Prime Ministers, and financial secretarys who adopted special social support for the most efficient group of older citizens. It is interesting to consider that there is a group that does not have full rights in the social security system as changed in 2016, women in more parts, and people of foreign origin. Right away. A senator asks about priorities. It is appropriate to look at the overall picture, the changes made in 2016, the changes made again in 2019/2020, which were the most important group I ever saw. For this change, it may be primarily about encouraging older citizens to participate in a job market. It is, in fact, proclaimed in the terms of a government contract when it comes to changing the social security system for microorganization workers. That is in harmony with what many among them have requested, i.e. that we develop a system where, on the other hand, we better secure the survival of the worst set up in a group of micro-energy donors rather than making it possible for those of us to do some sort of job that makes it possible, but that's not what we're doing with the system as it is now. It is this system change that I called after and that it is not thought to be a forced operation but as an encouraging action in which we have these two goals to guide. Because of what? A senator quoted a government contract, and thought that there was no firm statement, I feel that it would be appropriate to mention it here, for he evidently missed this chapter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u16	Madam President. I directed a question to the highest. Prime Minister to the benefit of pensioners. From my question, perhaps I could have suggested that I was talking about people with the rights of pension funds, but in their answers, I spoke to the highest degree. Prime Minister primarily for those who do not have such rights. I wonder, then, if it's the highest. The prime minister counts that the government has taken enough of its decisive action to address low - income problems among older people who have to endure the immediate application of over 25,000 dollars. From a pension fund, every dollar comes to a considerable decrease in payment coming from a insurance agency. I'll ask them the highest. Prime Minister: Does she disagree that income from pension funds is nothing more than a delay in employment income and that it is normal to treat income in a somewhat comparable way than other employment revenues? [[The president calls.]] And also, because of the highest. The prime minister mentioned disability, and they needed to be encouraged to act: Why, on the other hand, do not the raising of micropigular income at this time of the year? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u17	The President would like to remind the senators to keep their time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u18	Madam President. I assumed that it would. An officer who is now an equal figure would be asking about the most efficient group of older citizens, for that is, of course, what came out of the analysis of the financial minister, prime minister, and social minister at the time, that there was actually a group who were not entitled to full rights and who needed much more support. [[Up front.]] In the past, I mentioned that in business they have lax other laws because we want to encourage people to work. Hv. A senator asks them why he does not value the same about a microenergy pensioner. So it's to answer that I think it's very important that we make a complete change in the disability system. Like what? A senator likely knows that system today is very complex, offering a degree between different reform groups as well as a decline in employment. It is extremely important that we achieve that complete change so that we can actually do what I think we know is why. A senator agrees with me, a aspect of disability for work, without their having problems with other payments they have a right. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u19	President. Disease control authorities are responsible for the prevention of disease, but governments have far greater responsibilities. In view of the recent proposals made by a D.A.D., which a minister may not fully follow, I would like to ask a minister about government responsibilities. I would like to inquire of the minister's duty to support his decisions. Piratar and I have been repeatedly asking for support, especially when being disbarred from the motion of a psychiatrist, so that we can all know where the plan is. Is there a strip going on? Is AIDS being eliminated? Is it beating down the wave, protecting vulnerable groups, protecting the health system? The argument has never come, just the general goal of knocking down the wave. Why? The result? That's what we're trying to ask about. Why does a minister not feel the need to delay school dating after years, as suggested by a psychiatrist? As a matter of fact, it's a good reason for a psychiatrist to offer it, and then a minister has other reasons not to do so. Where should our limitations be? Where's the line? Is there something that governments should always answer? I want to give the highest. A minister has the opportunity to answer this in a material way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u20	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson for this question. He calls for evidence that suggestions that appear in the address book of a psychiatrist are not completely followed and that draws out the schools. I appreciate the opportunity to explain it, and he actually links it to the context of a future view. Now we are on the road to controlling the epidemic as much as possible while keeping society going as possible. It has been since the outbreak of epidemics to keep schools and leisure activities, and sports of children and teenagers walking as hard as possible, and I think it is very important, Madam President. We often discuss this as we talk about children's spiritual and social well - being. Then we come to this key and responsibility for failing to make the same final decision proposed by a psychiatrist, i.e. extending the school vacation we're going into with the whole school system to January 10. This led to my conclusion, and I standing here is responsible for it. Schools are on vacation, they are moving on, while school administrators take up the conversation with the schools, school directors, and school employees, evaluating the situation and reviewing the situation. [[The president calls.]] It was the line laid.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u21	President. A minister mentions the spiritual and social well - being of children whom I fully understand. I'm not saying that you don't follow all the suggestions from a D.A.D.'s advice, not at all. Governments have far greater responsibilities and need to evaluate a much wider view than a psychiatrist might focus his attention on. If the spiritual and social factors matter, as to what the government decided to do differently from what a psychiatrist does, the government needs to support them. Since children are referred to as spiritually and socially, I expect such rational support to exist that can be searched. I'm calling the nursery. Schools have been in a very special position in all of this epidemic, with limitations that have been relatively difficult, preschooled for the fact that everyone is really above all. Yet nothing will happen there. [[The president calls.]] There's a lot of uncertainty about school jobs, e.g. Today, when these suggestions come from a psychiatrist and these government conventions. How's the top? A minister of it?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u22	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's request and he's going to go to the studio. It is as if there are a number of other factors in this epidemic that crystallize the importance of high school in the whole of society's success and success. Now, there is no recommendation from a psychiatrist at the nursery, so we are going, not beyond the recommendation of a psychiatrist, but on the other hand. With regard to spiritual and social well - being and the relationship with everything else, I agree with it. A senator wants us to examine this in a far - reaching way. That doesn't make no difference because we always try to control the virus without stopping society too much. We can relate to the whole production system, economic activities, etc., but, of course, there are a number of studies that confirm that leisure, sports, schooling are key to these factors, social and mental well - beings of children. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u23	President. The number of infections increases, and the problem, or rather, of need, increases the land hospital. The situation has tested the endurance of the people who have stood like rocks for nearly two years despite their continuing indiscretions and unemployment. At the same time, the intensive care of the Land Hospital has not been improved, although it has already been inadequate before the pandemic. As a result, major and vital measures have been repeatedly delayed because postoperative intensive care is not possible. In September it was e.g. spoke of the lack of a total of 27 nurses'status in order to complete the intensive care. I think I can say with confidence that the increase in intensive care and improved equipment and ideal staff is the basis for our success in long-term exposure to the virus, since there is no evidence that it is going soon. That's why I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister: Will the government continue to work with severe limitations for several weeks at a time and then slowly reduction to protect the Land Hospital or will the government finally improve the management and development of the intensive care so that it no longer become an independent risk factor in this large project for all of us?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u24	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. The fact is, there was an increase in the rate of health contributions in general during the last terms, since this was one of the priorities of the government. Whether the hospital, health care, or mental health - care programs are viewed there, I feel that the results of this epidemic have been met by health care. Based on the fact that her situation was strengthened considerably in his case. So it does not change that the situation was very heavy after a considerable maintenance business in the hospital for years, but it must be said at the moment. Similarly, there is no conflict between the health authorities and health authorities in other parts of the North countries, at least caring for the health - care system. There's a senator here. Specific measures have been employed that have repeatedly been taken here at the Assembly Hall to strengthen the ability of the Land Hospital, for that is the case. A senator named him. Then I'd like to give a special witness. openings of high - care cells, which most nations have to offer along with intensive care teams, but also rehabilitation space, a special epidemic in Fosov, as well as opening space to ensure a better flow from the hospital. Although it is boring to make good use of that word, it is one of the things that have long been needed to improve. In reality, then, there has been a system structured by health care throughout the last terms and continues. But there is also a greater need. In view of an epidemic, we know that most nations have faced very difficult situations in their medical institutions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u25	President. Answers to the highest. The prime minister now focused on the main subject of the question, which was whether the ICU service would be greatly strengthened so that it would not become that limiting factor, which is really all our actions. We are always making sure that this space will not be overcrowded, which is why we are using severe measures. I'd like to let me ask you the highest. The prime minister, as it turns out, that there is no unity among members of Congress the greater part of the government's policy on these matters and, most clearly, a great difference of opinion among the Ministers themselves: how is the Supreme Court? When all evidence suggests that the situation in the government and the body of Congress reduces much more rapidly than the nation's endurance, does the prime minister plan to secure a solidarity?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u26	Madam President. I reiterate my answers because of what I have to say. A senator here mentions the intensive care unit, which will be added as a very important procedure to ease stress in the intensive care unit. There is something other nations have done, as I mentioned in the previous answer, i.e. ... witha high-supervising space in support of intensive care. So there is a complete need for some action to reduce stress there. As for the national solidarity and solidarity of the government, I'd like to say that I fully support the health minister in the measures he has decided to take following the motion of a psychiatrist. I'd like to point that out, because of what. One member of the U.S. Senate notes that research has repeatedly shown the confidence of the nation's health - care system and the government's instruments. It is clear, however, that not everyone agrees with these measures and has agreed on questions and comments. [[The president calls.]] Then I think it's easier for me to do what's wrong. A senator asks them why. Councilmen rather than the prime minister who has endured all of this by government policy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u27	V.E.G. President. Waternes Road in West Hunsa Lake County is on the section of the largest malar road in the part of the country and throughout the country. The road is extremely dangerous, and it is gone and does not stand under the traffic that goes through it. It is not only the growing traffic of tourists, which are important for the district but also the road of life that is built around it, driving daily with schoolchildren on perforated roads, where even short distances become day - to - day journeys during a dreary and tragic situation. It is necessary to build up the road, to make progress, and to place on the barrier as soon as possible. Waternes Road is still planned for the third period of transport, something that citizens of the country cannot do for the enjoyment and for us who work here should not do either. It is so clear that once again the invitation will be released at a University of Hóla Bridge in the New Year and then a chapter 5 miles [5 km] on the west side of Waternes. However, it takes much more than small - dose healing from one year to the next. This requires immediate action in building on Lakenes Road so that it can play a vital role for him. By permission of a president, the government contract says: To support sectoral and regional development and to facilitate school driving in areas currently malared, the work will be done by Markvist. It's important policy. Take care of the highest. An inside minister uses further speed and more funding in order to accomplish this?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u28	Madam President. Thank you. The candidate's inquiry and agree with him that this road is certainly not in acceptable condition, which is true of many maladies. I thought the description might be full - metal, but it does not minimize people's experience to drive that way, especially in the autumn. The situation is that when I arrived at the Ministry a few years ago, this road was not a means of transportation. We've had about 1 billion on a road, and this is a road, all parts of the country all around Iceland. This road cost more than 3 billion. What has been done is what has happened. A senator correctly mentioned, an invitation to the bridge of the Western Group Hall, along with a section 2.2 miles [2 km] on the road to lie down in the past year. There was no offer, but it will be reimbursed this year. At the same time, preparation and design have been made at more than five miles [5 km] from Keylands to Hares, which are also scheduled for the next year. So here we are talking about construction for 500,600 million. It is then true that the rest has been taken out of parentheses and specifically applied to the transport program, is no longer in the road, and is estimated to be about 2.5 billion. During the third period of the travel program, which is a long 60 - mile [69 km] journey. As has been true in the past. A senator has stressed the construction of national barriers, and we have made a special effort in this time of the next few years, but more is needed. It is also true that in a government contract, the government's emphasis is to support sectoral and regional development and make it easier to go to school in malarkey areas. A building agency has been drawing up such areas, and I trust that when we bring a transport plan into the council, it will be difficult. A senator, as well as others, ready to give more money to this important sect. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u29	V.E.G. President. V.E.G. Minister, thank you for the answers. It is a pleasure to know that the minister is thinking of doing those things. We need to put more money on the road specifically, that's right, on national level, and when it comes to such big projects, we need to put extra money in them in order to finish them. But it is important that children who are now riding on street roads in Waternes do not remain unsatisfactory while driving school cars when long - awaited transport changes become reality. We naturally do not want that to happen. So we need action immediately and we need to unite, and I'm ready to act with a minister of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u30	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's positive pledge to raise more money on the road. I agree with what. A senator that it is important to act quickly. But I want to reiterate from the past years, the Waterwater Road situation has changed. He is certainly more driven, considerably more, by the change in the way he operates, by the growing number of young families in the area, than by well - versed tourists. We, however, need to put more money into this party. When I arrived at Lakenes Road, he was just one of the roads of the country, and between them, a billion people in all Iceland were to be divided over the next few years. That's 500,600 million going. K. This route next year, and the rest of the road has been put on a transportation program, so the project on this road is in a hurry. The project for all other roads, as well as for all other schoolchildren who also drive a long distance in other parts of the country, is to get more money on the road, and I look over to the various financial committees for support.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u31	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a greater portion of the budget of a bill for financial support by 2021. Our committee has the Committee's work on the bill. At the outset of the opinion I refer to, the representatives of the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs have visited the Committee, as well as the committee has called together representatives of the Ministry of Health and the National Hospital on the subject of the bill. This will be a fifth if it is not the sixth budget bill we can direct to the pandemic and is unknown in the history that so many budgetigraphers are delivered as short as we have now, which may be a vivid example of how we have been trying to cope with the unexpected conditions we have lived in the past few months. The bill is based on 26. it's a government law. It shows that a minister is allowed, if necessary, to seek additional financial resources in the bill for financial support in order to respond to temporary, unforeseen, and inevitable expenses within the budget, although they have not been able to respond with other legal resources. For the most part, the bill changes can be attributed to the pandemic and presented largely in the Department's topic areas. Using the previous budget of the year, it was decided not to make use of the general budget for the Covid-19 budget. This was in order to maintain the ability of the reserve to meet unexpected expenses that might arise later in the year. These include pay and compensation and additional expenses for the pandemic. It is also important, in view of the transparency objective, that the environment's counter-improvement measures are subject to coverage and ethic treatments consistent with previous measures. The vast majority of expenses turn to health and unemployment related tasks. It is suggested that there is an increase in health care contributions of about 22 billion. Within these, there is a weight of 6.4 billion. to the hospital, which is mainly explained by the results of the pandemic. Medical costs outside the clinic are mainly due to a disease prevention unit of 2.9 billion dollars and due to implementation of vaccinations and screening on the border of 2.1 billion dollars. In addition, dental expenses and physical therapy are re-evaluated by 2.1 billion K. and 2.6 billion cc. are due to reassessment of the cost of medicine. The cost of a labour market is now being increased by 7.8 billion. most likely about 6.1 billion dollars. contributions from the campaign begin work. There is also $1 billion. a contribution to the December suitability of jobseekers, and I'll find out later on. The bill's report contains a unique reason for explaining and referring to it on specific points. The Commission called in particular after a thorough dissociation from the Land Hospital to explain each increased cost of operating for the Covid-19 list and is presented in a table in the Committee's opinion. It shows that this 6.1 billion weight gains much more than the cost of earnings, cleaning, and buying of medicinal products, 5.1 billion, and I want to inform you that the budget is coming for further disintegration at this cost of the Land Hospital, which the hospital is working on further analysis of the expenses involved. There are 2.9 billion reasons for buying substrates, as they say, but of the information gained by a financial committee, it can be seen primarily that chemical mixtures needed to use in laboratorys for analysis. Next, it's 900 billion. K. ... inpayand $700 billion. K. to buy protective equipment and 650 million. K. due to cleaning, but other joints weigh less. In addition, the bill suggests changes to 5. on borrowing. It suggests that the government loan will be reduced from 430 billion dollars. in 270 billion, due to the lower financial needs of the state's funds, the budget of the year was estimated. In particular, it is explained by the better payment of the state funds, high boil status at the beginning of the year, and the need for funding of the Covid procedure to be less than planned. It is also suggested that foreign loans be reduced from 220 billion dollars. 120 billion dollars. for financing of currency stores. The need for interest has already been fully met in 2021. That puts in the bill six adjustments to 6. The financial resources that are relevant to the purchase and sale of property, property, land, and stock and are further identified in the bill itself. Some 4 billion dollars is proposed. As per Article 6 of this study, the cost of property was to be bought. Money from here on out. More than that, a few more adjustments are made as well as the whole committee is making one suggestion. This proposal suggests a monologue to micro- and-repet-repet-employers in a similar way to what they did last year. In this connection, the more part shows that in the meantime, social assistance laws have been changed in order to count 95% of the amount of money paid per pensioner. Twenty-two. Act on social security instead of 100% income insurance. As a result of this change of law, their income increased the largest income in the category of disability and rehabilitatement in the community more than anyone else. On a yearly basis, their cost estimate of action cost nearly 1.2 billion dollars. This makes it a full - costume $1 billion. Precinct on the topic field. The following proposals come together from the entire committee, with regard to Article 27,40 other energy payments: an proposal is made about 1,200 million. K. a single-change process for microenergy and rehabilitation personnel. The pay is 53,100 k. on you. It is expected that social security laws will be changed to ensure that this additional payment will be tax free and will not interfere with other payments for disability and rehabilitation, such as housing and special housing support. The objective is that other payments remain intact despite these supplements. Then the more part makes the following suggestions: First, there's a group of 09.10 law enforcement. Suggested by 338 million. K. a contribution to the seminary due to the temporary impact of Eastern police contracts in the capital area and unexpected reasons for the police. Because of the police in the capital area, they're calling for a total of 305 billion. K. ... ofa fewaddresss. It has been found that due to the date of the printing of police at the office, transfer of a collective contract has been made to the improved work hours of shift workers up to 110 million. K. ... moreimproveable than any other law enforcement agency. Normally, the cost of aging is expected to be the same as that of younger police officers. It has not been going on this year and has resulted in the cost of increasing 50 million in working years. K. above expected. Then, in the last two years, costing major events resulted in a total of 25 million. K. Not scheduled charges. About 120 million. K. An increase in holiday commitment is explained by the influence of police labour agreements. Unity prices for holiday commitment have increased beyond other salary costs because of the influence of collective agreements. The price of unity in the middle of this year has increased by 22% since 2018. It has increased the payable holiday commitment of the office by 120 million. K. without raising funds, there is an unexpected and unpredictable increase. Finally, a proposal is made about 33 million. K. a contribution to the East police to cover the costs of one officer, car expenses, and temporary housing as well as to further control the natural threat following the saunas in the Southland. A respectable president. This change to the police office in the capital area can be said to be expected, on 2nd. followed by funding, further discussion of expenses and changes in financial resources due to the changed work hours written. The reason for this is perhaps the prerogative of the government's office in the capital area is perhaps primarily because it is that there is a variation from the main shift and the main extensions that the state system's offices and institutions have had to plow through because of the worktime shortcuts and therefore it is merely an aberration and a change of action. Then there is a proposal for a change in the legal age of 18.30 cultural funds, making a suggestion to provide the NYC 30 million. K. a contribution to meeting the loss of income and the cost of the company in 2020 due to the pandemic of Korean virus. There is also a suggestion to give 20 million dollars to the Human Society of Akureyri. K. of the same occasion. Then we have a legalized adjustment of the 1840 Athletes and Youth Department. Suggested by about 100 million. K. a donation to sports and juvenile society due to loss of income. A partnership will be held in Iceland's Sports and Olympics because of the growth of the funding. Various events had to be taken down with shame when meeting restrictions were instituted, events that are important to unattainable financial events, and such efforts as this and these specific measures are made. According to the above, a greater proportion of the legal committee contributes to the agreement that the matter will be agreed with the changes outlined here in a special Senate document. Under the heading, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, chairman of the Board of Sheep, Haraldur Benediktsson, Vilhjálmur Árnason, Stefán Vagn Stefánsson, Ingibjörg Isaksen, and Bryndís Haraldsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u32	A respectable president. We'll discuss this with the Committee's Committee for Funds from a large part of the budget board. I thank you for your background, huh? paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, for the record. It is clear that a unanimous accord was within the committee of these 53,000 pieces. to disability, which is a great matter. But I'd like to know if there was any discussion about the older citizen who is the worst, whether he or she was involved, and he was trying to find a basis for help. As noted earlier, last year in the case of desperate Covids, they received their money back, but older citizens have not received a cent in this context. We should not forget, too, that they have been spoken of as being on December, but this does not result from the failures of many to receive little or nothing. An anonymous older citizen pointed, e.g. That he did not even learn how much more, what he received in December supplementation. I'm asking if this has been discussed. Also, I would like to understand why the costs of vaccination and the costs of screening on the border are put together. What did the vaccination cost, and what did the screening of the border cost?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u33	A respectable president. Thank you. His senator answers. Because of previous questions. In this case, for the elderly, I would like to say: Of course, this matter is discussed in a broad context of a financial committee. The result was to agree with the suggestion the smaller part had brought here in common with the 1st. this is actually the proposal that we propose to the committee during our discussion today. With regard to the cost of vaccination and the costs of screening across the border, it is likely to be for further fragmentation. Although it is published in this form and in the Senate itself, it can be more accurate. In contrast, I told the story that at the expense of the Land Hospital, we had requested more information, i.e. for vaccination and screening on the border. Since then, it will be known that the cost and expenses of the chord virus will go further and more. I call attention to the high cost of a disease - control hotel, which in the bill is 2.9 billion dollars. Of course, the discussion of these expenses does not end today, and there are many smells that we need to follow, not only in the process of screening the borders, but also in how we handled the road to hosting and how it can affect other travelers again. This is how it is published in this Senate document, but it is probably called for further dissociation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u34	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson for his answer. I just have to say, I'm really happy that this has come through, these 53,000 rocks. But at the same time, I'm worried that this group of older citizens will be forgotten. Well, hopefully we haven't. At least we've made a change in trying to reach this group at votes. But at this cost, I wonder. Don't you think it's time to dissociate the costs of screening, which have been both fast-testing and PCR scans? It seems to me that the cost is at hundreds of millions of dollars. Wouldn't it be better for us to understand exactly how much money is being put into this, that it would all be torn apart, what will go to screening on the border, what will be screened here in the country, and what will happen to the vaccinations and costs around them? We need to have a clear picture of the cost. We can also see, if we take all this cost, that these are huge amounts of money. So I believe that we have a responsibility to try to keep track of this so that things don't get completely out of hand. We always say that there is no money for everything, often when talking about those most needed. Therefore, we also need to keep an eye on the fact that there are no bridges.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u35	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with what came out in the second answer to what happened. A senator, i.e. that we would need to better analyze the cost and make better use of his individual forces. This can be done better, and we should better divide the cost. Since then, it is the key message we've been through this epidemic to ensure access to sample and analysis and to use it to build under our public health. I think general participation in samples and analyses is essential and one of the key elements we've had to deal with the epidemic, to react to it. However, it can be planned if the epidemic is much longer and costs are high. But I just want to say that I think demonstrations and analyses are essential to monitoring the progress of an epidemic and identifying people who are ill. There is another debate over how far we should go in support of specimens, e.g. because of a number of events, how long we should use them. It is a well - worth discussion. Like others, a respectable president, I'd like to believe that the epidemic will not be much longer. But this is one of the basic enterprises we have fought against the epidemic, the sample, and the analysis, access to it, and then a joint involvement in paying the cost of those factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u36	President. There's one thing about the law that I don't understand, but that's especially true. It is now that the Allied Council agrees with all the budget, unemployment, pension, drugs, health systems, etc. When the budget is complete, e.g. for medicines that have happened very often in recent years, there is no stopping them from buying drugs. They continue to buy medication and bring a budget bill: Listen, we have to pay these extra drugs we bought. Good-bye. Then we have something like reimbursement for movies. Once the money's done there, it's just that it doesn't pay anymore. Why don't you continue to pay for it so that those who have the right to get it, and then you'll bring money back later on and say, "Hey, yeah, that's the authority we're going to pay, and that's all right with that? Why is this e.g. not done with NPA contracts? There's a law that's supposed to be a lot of contracts a year, which the state pays with, and we accept a financial warrant. Now we're adding in a new budget for these contracts, but we don't have a lot of contracts to do, even though there's a waiting list. And when the warrant's over, it's just that we don't pay anymore. Then there's work to start. This is where we agreed on a budget for a $3.4 billion job for 7,000 new jobs, summer jobs for students and so on, very nice. But when the warrant was completed, the pay was not stopped. They kept paying. However, this was not done because of the NPA contracts, which was done for starting work. Why the difference? Why do they sometimes keep paying, and sometimes, when the funds run out, is just stopping paying? Why is there sometimes a request for additional funds for something that had not stopped paying or at times not?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u37	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his answer and the questions he rightly asked. Why didn't we stop paying? I think I'll try to converse with the pearllike answers to these many questions. A senator put it here. [[It's just one question.]] Although he wants it to be a matter of one question, I still want to discuss the use of the funds and the limits we set. The general rule is that if there is no money, it is not paid. However, we also need to be flexible, e.g. when it is time for the medicine to be due. It's not good to stop medication, so it's more often than not been said that we're going to get money for a frontal drive in pharmaceutical funds for financial support. It's not a good custom. This was a group of paintings that we often joined in the budgets of the past few years, changed where better results were achieved in the management of pharmaceutical capitals. He mentioned filmmakers. They stay behind and do not get their contracts fixed if the budget is complete. With regard to MPA agreements, I don't think the number of contracts is a standard which would be very good to use because treaties are very indiscriminate. But we know that, more dignified President, we do. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson and me, who have been on the budget for some time, that the jury and the NPA treaties needed a better outdoor than we've seen so far. It's about the factor that's had. A senator mentions, starts his work, I think it's one of the instruments, labour market measures, which have been the best way to use this year, since there have been a number of funding submitted, I think the value of bringing others out to work was this way, and even though the financial authority has been - I find it more details in my later answer, a respected president. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u38	President. However, the question remains that at some point the government, the government decides, the Ministry of finance, or whatever the Ministry decides to say, "We're out of budget. " Now I'm gonna stop paying. But this is done on some projects, not all of them. That's the problem. In the beginning of the work, we saw that the government came here after the new approval of both financial and financial programs, which repeatedly complained about the lack of market operations. Then the government comes to mind a moment later that this would be great. It's only 4.3 billion fine, here's 7,000 new jobs, less unemployment. We agreed, but it turned out that this cost 9.5 billion more, 6.1 more in these budgets, and 3.4 in building these options at the start of the next year. Isn't this something that the Senate is supposed to get in advance, like everything else, as the Constitution states, that there can be no payment unless there is a legal warrant? Is it not bad to be always looking for help afterwards? Unless it's specifically accepted, let's say, for example. In terms of unemployment or pension, or something like that, that it was authorized to meet everyone's rights and eventually bring in some of the funds for the precise transfer systems. There would be General approval that these are public rights that will be paid for no matter what. But with something like starting work - you're sure? Or about MPA - wouldn't you say so? Who will decide whether or not the funds will continue, and they will be paid without the approval of the council? Who will decide, the council or the government?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u39	A respectable president. I think it's quite different to equalize between the two budgeting agents as well as what they're doing. There's a senator here. Second, what you can build on a plan. In this case, I think that I was extremely successful and was important in the reversal we won in the battle against the crown virus. All these budgets, all these financial talks we've taken in the council in the past few months because of a pandemic, are basically a picture of our being here in serious uncertainty. We were trying to react, and one of the devices we used to cope was to get as many as possible back to the job market. But I'm going to agree with what. A senator could well have informed a financial committee of the massive exiting project much sooner than it was done, but we may also have been dealing with the campaign agreement. [[The vote sticker.]] But I think the conclusion is, a respectable president, yet this value became popular. It worked really well. This reduced the number of people on unemployment, helped people to continue their jobs, and in that sense, I think their value is significant. Then it is primarily a discussion of a technical question entitled entitled "What." Senator: Who makes these decisions? But then I think I must know that the situation was unprecedented.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u40	President. This is an interesting amount of money for many reasons. Of course, we begin with the motion of the government, the smaller part, of a monopolitan payment that was agreed on by a financial committee. What a joy that is! I don't know if this is the first time that it happens, anyway. There's nothing I can do but compliment it. May the tradition change, if I say so, and hopefully more later. I'd like to talk about what I talked about in my committee program. It's the largest budget team in the budget bill, $1.1 billion. That was to cost 4.3 billion. It was suggested that when the government had just made a new financial program that she then delayed by saying: "The epidemic is so confusing that we do not trust in setting a policy to eliminate the insecurity, to eliminate uncertainty. If so, we must delay the rate at which we pursue the epidemic. When the government's policy is presented in a financial program - inconsistencies merely to confound these words, financial policies does not contain any particular policy, but does show it in a financial program - it was neither a bird nor a fish. All labour market resources were missing, based on projections for the development of unemployment and employment status. The government repeatedly criticized, throughout the financial and financial discussion, that the government had nothing to do with labour markets. A short time later, after a New Year's Eve, the government withdraws the hat action and sets it up on its own terms and does not arrive to the council and support the operation. It does not say that this procedure for 4.3 billion is an enormous use of public funds because it yields tremendous success, 7,000 jobs, etc., and is much better than any other way you've got. This is the key: better than any other way. Is she getting better results? We do not know because we do not know what other suggestions were offered. Does it cost less? We have no idea because there were no other proposed ideas. And it is to be done under government law. The management board is to be placed on which options were offered. That's the basis for having a transparency. The management board makes a professional assessment of different options, and the government then places its political evaluation of options. Political evaluations can completely change the conclusion of a professional administration. It may be political to choose based policies, or a paradox, or the job conditions of women, or minorities, or something so ahead of other evaluations that governments can choose because the management government says this is better than the rest. Perhaps there is some alternative that is less expensive but would be less appropriate based on what the government prefers to emphasize because of what is in the Constitution or something similar. Then the government accepts the political responsibility of failing to live up to professional conclusions. It can be good and good, it's only political responsibility. But not having these options, not showing them and not showing the best results, especially political and professional, is not supposed to happen. That seems to have happened on the exact project. Now I'm not gonna say anything about how good or bad the job is. The result was clear, a lot of money paid to bring results. It was paying not just what people had received on unemployment income but more. It was paid beyond unemployment to allow people to work in rural areas and in other places. Very nice. But would greater success have been in doing something else for 4.3 billion? We don't know. When a suggestion comes about 4.3 billion for 7,000 new jobs, it is simply an ass account that calculates 300,000 dollars. or on unemployment benefits for each individual, for 7,000 individuals each month, and this will increase to 2.1 billion per month. So 4.3 billion works just for two months. - But not everyone has full unemployment jobs, so three months you say, "I'm generous." This is a procedure that was submitted to three months of age. It should be clear to everyone. For example, when it comes to summer jobs for students, it is. A three-month period. That's how it works. I can see the amount for that. And then it should only be finished because it was approved with a warrant of 4.3 billion. But no, this went on and on. Of course, very nice for those who did these jobs, very nice for the economy and other things. But was it better than anything else? Was that better than any other choice? We don't know. And it ends to 10.4 billion this year instead of 4.3 billion. 6.1 billion extra. The government just decided, "No, we're going to keep doing this. Why don't we ask the council and get some money for this? No, there's an election coming up, and that's what it's like. It's best if people aren't falling apart from their summer jobs just before elections that just increases unemployment. It's going to be really bad in elections. I hope people understand the seriousness of things, as it were. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, says it was an election alliance in the post. There's a lot of free money being taken from the state when it comes to voting alliances. Reports are given because they are uncomfortable during the discussion. Let's put billions and tens of millions on the pet project right, left. No problem because it's an election policy. Not enough of this to be 10.4 billion this year, but it's probably over by the end of the year. Whether it does, I really have no idea, but at least it's assumed. That's why $3.4 extra worlds are expected next year to complete this selection, to complete notice, and so on. We've reached 13.8 billion for this. What could have been done for 13.8 billion in the economy, in innovation? Something that would make more than - these were probably 7,400 jobs that were made, not 7,000. All right. I'll blow it out. Fine, there were other jobs. But would it not have been possible to do anything else for 13.8 billion who would have made more than 7,400 jobs for just over six months? Really? Does no one know what could be done better for 13.8 billion? I had a lot of ideas in my discussion about the fundraiser when Covid started. There were a number of opportunities available, as shown in the summer's summer financial development fund, a lot of projects that would have created a permanent job, not temporary jobs, as in this case, for future development to grow out of the code, and that was an 8% share ratio. This project does not grow out of the code. It's a temporary patch that works properly over elections, that fixs the unemployment counts just while you're choosing. I just don't think it's okay. What can we do about this? I'm sorry, not much. It's an election thing, nothing more complicated. But as a body of Congress, we should take the minimum volume to demand that the government be more beneficial by its means. It would be about the fact that when there was a history of an exodus, a financial committee would be notified. I don't expect much from the way the administrative sector operates in general. It's just, yes, the government is letting us know of the above-relation. Fine, let's not do anything about it. So, do we have to look for financial resources in a financial bill since it's known that this is getting ahead of us? No, it's only on the budget bill by the end of the year. It is easier to sum up all of this and grant permission afterwards than to take the discussion about whether this is a bad use of public funds. It's not done. It must not be brought into the chamber. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. There's everything in the election. I'd like to encourage you never to do anything like this again. I don't know how to make sure. Perhaps I could do so by putting in a constitution that I can't pay money unless there's a legal warrant for it. No, hey, huh? It's in the constitution, oh, oh. What can I do, then, if people aren't even applying the constitution in this regard? It's a tradition to just sum it up. I understand some of the source of that tradition, i.e. from these classic transfer systems, rights systems that cover or even under them. You have to cancel a budget if not all of it is used. It comes anyway, it's a budget bill at the end of the year to fix these things, and it's very easy to take everything else along on the way. But that is not the way it should be done. We have to stand up for a little while here at the council. We're a member of Congress democracy. The ministers out there work for the entire council, they work for the council and the nation. They have to answer the council. They're not supposed to be out there to manipulate the nation's resources on their own terms. They have to come here and ask. And although the majority agree entirely with their own advisers, he still needs to ask the entire council to activate the surveillance authority of what this government has done to an enormous extent. It is the keeping of the council to ask exactly why the funds are so recklessly being handled. Didn't you come here at the beginning of the year and say you were going to make 7,000 jobs for 4.3 billion? Isn't that what you said? Why, then, does this cost 13.8 billion? What's going on? I am absolutely convinced that 13.8 billion for the various innovation projects, e.g. ... I'veheard it from those who work on these deportations that there are people all around with lots of projects and I'm quite convinced that 13.8 billion in exactly those opportunities would have made a lot more jobs. It's just my feeling. I can't convince anyone unless I point out, for example. published by Jehovah's Witnesses. It is up to eight times as much money as possible in technology. In a sense, there is a saturation there. Now we give e.g. The lack of financial resources for development is that not all of the best projects are approved. In real life, there are times when you have to choose between the best applications, these are the best applications. We have 30 envelopes that are just the best. We're not gonna settle them, but we've got a warrant for 20. How, then, are we going to throw away ten? Sometimes you can choose because you have a spelling error in one of your applications. We're not supposed to work that way. Technical Development Fund has been very clear to the fact that, on average, some 253/433% of applications have been applied to the good that they should definitely get strength. It is 80 times - and it is six times. I don't understand why they don't even try it. This was our focus in Pirates and the smaller parts when Covid started. The opportunity was obvious: Let's put the money in innovation where it can be used in a completely modified environment of epidemic conditions. Let us take advantage of the opportunities we have in spite of the situation. No, no. In fact, the government proposed 1.5 billion innovation at that time, 3 billion were to go on a trip to recruit foreign tourists. It is ironic, especially to think about, and very optimistic and surely the cause of the second wave if you think about it. The government could see only for itself and for the change in budgets more than 1.5 billion so that at that point 3 billion were introduced into innovation and market campaigns for tourism. Our proposal in the smaller section was 9 billion - and only technology could have practically dried it up and the rest of the funds are countless. But the government was afraid that they could not get the budget to work which is a very strange argument, quite a strange argument. What's the worst thing that happens if the government doesn't get it done? They fall down, they're just returned. Oh, no. But if there's too little money, they say they're stopping. Just like the NPA deal: no, we're done on budget. We are not going to take advantage of these extra opportunities that we face. No, we're just saying, "Stop, the money's over. " But as we begin our work, we continue to move billions more and more, moving nearly 10 billion ahead of schedule. No problem. It is such a necessary operation, especially during elections, since otherwise unemployment would be much worse than it is. This is the political reality that we live in today and the political reality we have to stop. We have to do better than that. The Senate has to do better than that. But who's in charge here at the council? That's some part. He takes majority power: We are more things, and we are going to take it all for ourselves. You're not getting anything. If you're going to do something, you're just gonna have to come up for a speech chair and have some trouble. Think about it. That's the democracy today. I've called this democracies dilution. There are often different opinions within different categories, but the majority of the members of the class are determined by the class, which means that if one category in the government is, for example. mainly against the EU or any new constitution or about a similar one, but there are still a number of them that could translate - just take the new constitution. Almost everyone in this government is against a new constitution. Throughout history, some have said that they support a new constitution, even though in recent years it developed into trying to talk from it. But give it to us anyway: Most of the government is against a new constitution, not all of them. Most people, but not all, agree with a new constitution. Would it be possible, however, that there would be more to this outstanding issue, regardless of what categories are in government and government positions, if a few members of the council were to vote according to their convictions? This is a democracies, where the party skims over the convictions of individual senators and destroys e.g. to ask this fundamental question: Is it a minister of political affairs? Is he taking political responsibility for a decision in a special matter -- which is fine, it's just a political argument - or is he taking a personal decision against a professional argument, such as. In the National Court case? This is the best example in recent years of clear professional conclusions as to what a minister should do but a minister decided to do everything else, to go against a professional decision, without arguing about it from the professional views that the minister was obliged to do. There was no political decision at the minister's office, it was a decision that, in my opinion, matters of the land and ministers's rights. It is this that the Council's administration is about, to determine whether a political decision is involved or an intentional decision. But for the greater part, it is classic to paint everything as a political conflict. When it comes to controlling its role, it is only a political game or something like it. Clearly, in the national court case, the criticism of the government was not a political one. This has been confirmed by all counts of judgment, up to the European Court of Human Rights. But this is how it works. When you take the lead, be responsible too. We're going to be a bit aware of the budget that the government groups don't want to take responsibility for things, they want shared responsibilities. But these are classes that took over. They took over, and they must have the responsibility too. One of the responsibilities is to show respect for the council that there is financial authority in the Senate, that custody of the council is under way, that the legislation in the custody of the council is laid. It means that it is not good to throw in the legislatures without notice that the council is going to do on zero. This means that almost 10 billion should not be fulfilled, which would only cost 4.3 billion. That means standing against what's under law that there should be 120 NAPA contracts that the state is supposed to pay, but that doesn't do for some reason. That means that when it's legal that older people's pensions and disability are meant to follow the prices or pay development, whether higher, he will. But he does not. I really don't know why. You would've thought this was a very basic thing. But the greater part of the responsibility decides to do something else and actually ignore it and tries to prevent all efforts of government opposition to ask reasonable questions about professional decision making, political decision making, or decision making. So I'm not impressed with this raise, except for the one thing I mentioned at the outset, which is 1.2 billion, over 53,000 bucks. one payment for biofuels, simply because last year's pay development and price development were underestimated. These are groups that do not have the right to strike. They cannot negotiate their purchases and benefits, and they receive legal rights that will minimise pay development or prices development. This is predicted at the beginning of each year's pay and price development will be up to the next year. All right. They get their pay raise right at the start of the year, before the inflation becomes more severe, before the pay raise is going to work. Actually, the increase is just ahead. All right, good-bye. But when the year is over, and you actually see what the pay and price development was, that it was lower, nothing will happen. If employees who can negotiate their rights and inflation gain greater than their contracts, everything will be upset, but when older people and poor people don't get legal raises for some reason, nothing will happen. Then no one will respond, not until now. I find it positive that in the next year's budget, it acknowledges that there was an underestimation of 0.8% of the GDP of that year, which is added for the next year. I think that's the correct interpretation of the 69th paragraph. Social Security Act. The question remains: What about the financial development? She was still taller, even more underestimated. There's still a lot of money to be thinking about in the pay process. That's all the excuses we're hearing from the Ministry; that your pay development is not a legal term, a pay number is something else altogether. So we really don't know what pay development is. We just have some Excel document where we've got the others and these collective contracts and then we'll just take some average number. This means that when contracting biographies, about the minimum salary increase, the average value is much lower than the minimum wage paying is as a percentage increase. Only those in pension receive the average percentage and thus fall back from the lowest wage. Hence, it is only natural that this monopolitan payment would match the differences in pay development predicted for 2021 and for the actual development of pay by 2021. It's simply being paid up what was going to happen, about that. It's pretty close, but it's in a different outfit. It is put in the suit of Covid actions that are quite good and good to do, too. I really support it, too, that's a very normal point of view. But it's something that this group owed, just like last year when the single payment was approved, that group owed that amount. They were already promised $1.1 billion in system changes that could not be made. So there was a budget of 1.1 billion to be set up for this group. When the warrant could not be released, it was redefined as a single payment. The money had been promised to this group, and when it failed, it was promised again as a gift: We will give you what we promised you that we would give you. It's double, it was kind of weird. But it's not quite as strange this time. Today, it is just a repetition of the grounds for the gift given the last Christmas. But it's also where the fool's skin is that we have to fix.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u41	V.E.G. President. I use the right to return an answer for a word. A senator in his story talk. I'd like him to admit that I wasn't putting on the job campaign in this issue, start jobs, get into a legal context. I felt like I answered it. A senator's business was when I said that if the council had been active, if a financial committee had sat, a financial committee could have been called together and warned of the forward drive there. I wasn't putting the campaign into an election relationship in another way, and I want to do it. A senator answered and confirmed my words.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u42	Mr. President. I'd like to make it right. Hv. A senator certainly used the word election, but I'll admit it wasn't necessarily in this context. It's in my context, I see this vote in this sense. The senator's inspection is completely excluded there. It's just my interpretation that the case wasn't sent to the council because of an election policy, it's not an interpretation. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u43	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his answer. Other than that, because of the speech of a man. A senator, I would like to put things into practice this way: I think it was very valuable and important that we begin to work hard. The basic tone of all our activities in this pandemic, of action under state funds, has been to protect people's homes and survival. This was an efficient way, indeed benefiting thousands and thousands of homes in that land. Well, maybe. A senator did not agree, despite hearing that he has other opinions about how money could have been spent, that the way it worked? Or is it? A senator objecting that this arrangement was available to these homes and families to cope with an unexpected loss of income?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u44	A respectable president. No, as I said, I have nothing to do with this extraordinary effort to set. I ask, however, could these funds have been used for more and more, something that would have provided exactly the same family much greater gain, e.g. in innovation and development throughout the country that would have paid off on more jobs. We do not, however, know this because governments did not analyze what was to be done and what would be most successful. What we've experienced throughout this epidemic is random action by the government. They look like they're pulling out of a hat. This will be a great operation -- what was it first? A bridge loan or something like that, it was totally useless. How many people were using it? Less than ten or something like that. Gradually, it became clearer that governments actually had to step in, and this step certainly includes it. If there had been no better choice, I would surely have made that decision, too. But I would have come to the council first and said, "I'm sorry, we're asking you about 4.3 billion, that's what it cost for the summer, but we're going to keep doing this because it works so well. In this epidemic, we also learned that we will be able to find out whether the measures are working well or not. This is rather bad, for there should be an assessment of the benefits of action, that is, in advance. I'm complaining about the lack of these analyses. It is the government's duty to make such an assessment on the council table when government authorities ask for financial resources for projects, such as. unemployment should be reduced.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u45	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the speech. We'll sit on a budget committee together, and I'd like to use this opportunity to thank him for his work and the cooperation we've had with these bills, both a budgeted bill and a bill for the budget. For us who come into this new, it's a lot to digest, and a lot of things you have to get into. How important, then, that we have experienced people on this committee! But what I wanted to ask you is why. A senator, concerning his opinion on budgets for 2021, is two. Now I hear him speaking here, and I see it in the committee's opinion that he criticizes this project, starts his work, and if I understand him, he gives it right to him instead of the material. I also heard his opposition earlier that he was not opposed to such a project. But he's here talking about research and innovation. I'd like to state that I'm very into research and innovation and innovation. But what I just wanted to ask about this project, and he knows it, ended up staying here longer than I did: Am I not correct in understanding that the project has been set out to protect people's home and survival? A project related to innovation and research takes much longer before it is successful. A project related to innovation might not have benefited in the same way as at the same time, and it would not have worked as well as the emergency resources it was.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u46	A respectable president. As I say, I'm not opposed to this mission as a means of emergency assistance. This is an emergency: Let's just take the unemployment benefits and get them to get professional drivers to hire people. It's like a hand brake or something like that, it's just a very obvious project. But what we criticized at the beginning of the epidemic was that both had to be done. If we had really to grow out of the epidemic, we would have had to start with innovation projects right away because it takes a while for them to build up. But with each delayed distribution, there will be a delay in the delay of that six - month work, sometimes years. Thus, in our first interest, our proposals were exactly the same as the government was suggesting. We did not really have a basis for them to criticize them extensively because they came in ashamedly. We just decided to trust that there would be some professional grounds behind it. But further, if we are to grow out of the epidemic, we need to attack innovation. That's what I'm saying. And now this emergency measures are set up at the time people thought the epidemic would be over, after vaccination, etc. It is strange to go to emergency measures at the time because policy would have long been developed so that there would be no need at the end of the epidemic. It's a very strange priorities in my opinion, but it's very clear to me how the case was tackled during the last term, that there was never any plan on what would be done if it didn't work out. There was never a plan B. We saw that there was always a new and new suggestion because the old ones did not work because the epidemic was always going on. They needed plan B.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u47	Madam President. I thank the senator for the answer. I agree with what. A senator with regard to the value and importance of innovation and innovation for Icelandic society and professional life. This is an item we must strengthen and strengthen. I think we're doing that, as indicated in a new bill for 2022. But I also wanted to ask him why. The senator here - I took note of his speech earlier that he spoke of his lack of appreciation for this committee party of the greater part or this money. In a board of committees why. A senator is almost entirely alone with regard to his work. The more part contains several other projects that we have taken up, making adjustments, such as contributions to the police and to the NYU, the Akureyri Society, and a U.S.A. K. a contribution to your youth and sports partner due to loss of income, which I believe is a huge improvement in the bill. I just wanted a glimpse. This is a senator's job. What is his view of this project, of this addition to a greater portion of the budget committee, to this excellent bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u48	President. The reason I'm only doing this one project is because it's the most important thing in this financial bill. I also discuss this in a committee study on budgets. In fact, I stole some of my own lyrics in this bill, as it were, a tract theft. It was simply a lack of time that caused it, most of our time working on the budget. When it came to making the budget a little faster than expected by the single payment, because it had to happen shortly before Christmas, I was the only one to draw attention to this one big thing, which is really an extremely bad treatment in the form of a budget, in the way government law defines financial funds. Funds are looking for financial resources for something unexpected and unpredictable, etc. But none of these were unpredictable. You can easily calculate the cost of paying for these many jobs for this month. There's really nothing more predictable than that. It was simply for the sake of time that I did not stress more projects, and I will not give special consideration to other assignments in this regard. If we had more time, we could talk about much, much more, that's right.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u49	Madam President. We're here to discuss a very specific but important part of this bill for financial support. First, I'd like to say that a welfare society is based on social rights. It's not based on stitches. We're not some Santa Claus here, we're not giving people their shoes. We are lawgivers, and we have the government's financial authority. It is our responsibility to make sure that people are not in a position to cry out for help just to celebrate Christmas. It's our responsibility. But that's just the situation. We live in a good community, and most of us are pretty good at it. But somehow we haven't been able to create a social security system that we can be reasonably proud of. It's just that way. Or how can we justify it to ourselves and others that there is only a total of 265,000 dollars in biofuels? every month, far below the minimum rate, five times less money than our monthly wage here in this room? How can we justify the fact that a large proportion of people with impaired ability, disability, need to be deprived of health care because of expenses? We can't. How can we justify the fact that much more disability is difficult for us to make ends meet at each month? We can't. That's why we've joined together on this proposal. What's so joyous about her, the one thing we've come together for, is that with her we're looking into this, we're acknowledging this. We are acknowledging that we have failed to create a good system for people who cannot earn a living. If people with disability and those with impaired skills would have been good, we wouldn't be talking about some 53,000 call here, that's just the way it is. It's a lot bigger than this one on its own. We're acknowledging the problem, we're acknowledging this low income problem, that there is poverty in Iceland and that poverty is a problem. That's why it matters, and that's why I'm happy with this and the solidarity that has been achieved in this matter. Madam President. I would also like to correct widespread misunderstandings about community media, and perhaps some news, that there are some special categories, the opposition to government, or a government that deserves credit for all of this. Of course, the honor lies with the people who sat down and wrote e - mails to members of the council. It's just that way. The public pressure works. Aktandimi works. This confirms it. It proved itself again and again with this, remembering it and thanking for it. A respectable president. I'm standing here as a backup man. paritaprevir Kristrún Frostadóttir's daughter on the committee. That's why she can't be here with us discussing this bill for the budget, so it's my job to bring her committee, which is as follows: In the opening section of this series of articles, this is the character of a budget code described: The role and content of government laws are very clear. This means that all predictable arrangements should be made in financial terms. Funds, however, will only be used to deal with expenses that were unforeseeable in the payment of budgets but show that expenses are dropped during the year and that government funds cannot avoid paying them. Among the unforeseen pay that the government fund cannot avoid paying, and this bill recommends is 8.5 billion dollars. at an additional amount of money. This cost is due to a lack of appreciation for inflation during the year. The financial cost of the state's budget was 3.5 billion dollars. a little less last year than if all the interest on loans were to have occurred, because the publication of the Kingdom Fund was better than expectations. To this, we weigh less than 10 billion bucks. due to greater benefits, since economic reversal has been inconsistent with high prices, especially on property markets. That's less than 4 billion bucks. the cost of operating due to increase in prices to budget 2022. As a result of greater inflation, the extra cost of the state's funds this year than was expected when the last budget was approved is thus over 13 billion. This cost of inflation can almost entirely be attributed to the loss of real estate, which explains the rise in apartment prices to all extra prices in the country over forecasts. To a large extent, inflation is a result of the government's economic decision, which, for the long and short periods, created an imbalance in the economy. In particular, the government's creative actions in the Covid epidemic were a situation that exaggerated the problem of a housing market. This imbalance is most intense on the most vulnerable groups in the community that feel a great deal of prices and uplifts. The evidence of a further payment of 2nd subsidiary on Christmas can be attributed to this situation: as a government fund cannot avoid paying its own expenses for additional inflation, neither can government funds escape from coping with the plight of vulnerable populations in the community because of the rising prices in the country. It is evident, then, that low - income groups do not have much room to cope with changing situations as a result of current disease prevention measures. Another smaller portion is celebrating the proposal of about 1,200 million. K. contribution due to 53.1 you. K. one payment for micro-energy pensioners, who signed and more were on 1st. this bill, has been taken into consideration by the greater part, and a decision has been made that all financial committees carry an extra payment proposal for disability and persons in the rehabilitation business before Christmas. Under this view, the publication of the committee is unsatisfactory. paritaprevir Kristrún Frostadóttir representing the United States Group on the budget board. I'm just going to say, in the end, that although the operation we've shared today has made a difference for thousands of households, she and monopolizes like this will never take the place of lasting compensation for these groups. It's a group who's been looking for budgets and terms for an elected period, and let's never think that something like this would replace lasting compensation. The fight continues, and I promise that in the United States, we will continue to fight with our mouths and crush the fact that in Iceland we will have a social security system that we can all be proud of.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u50	Madam President. I'll start with the final words of who. A senator's social security system that we can be proud of because that's exactly what we want, and that's exactly what we're so far from being. You see, it is quite right. A senator says that we are not talking about any 53,000 cases. in a special Christmas bonus for disability if the system was just fine. Then people would not have to e - mail the members of Congress and fight with their mouths to get help to complete the year. Now we're accepting the problem and facing the need to fix the system. Until we finish, we need to intervene with these specific solutions. When the mails start rolling in with us, we can't always say, " We're going to have a full review sometime later,'but we're gonna have to deal with the emergency problem today, and we're going to have a full review as soon as possible. If the system is not fixed by year, I assume we need to get people back together. And hopefully it won't have to be that much of a problem. I would like to consider: Just as the Christmas bonus is a sign of a social security system that isn't making itself, is the struggle that had to fight for Christmas bonus, perhaps a feature of something in the government that isn't so proud of it? Is it true that the minister of the jury has not achieved this in its original proposals through government cooperation, but had to rely on a united government stand with a group of micro-organists behind us to fight for this, to indicate some lower strength in the Minister than we wanted in this important matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u51	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this reaction to my speech. Of course, it is impossible to know what has been done at the government center and at the government table and how it came to the conclusion that it was finally agreed to make a suggestion for this monopolitan payment. I have to agree with what. A senator that there's an incredible bad habit, and I think everyone has had enough of a series of setbacks to have some vague promise of a complete review at some future time, during this terms, etc., are used as an excuse to deny groups in a delicate position about dressbacks here and now. And as a result, very little things happen; the years just pass by somehow, without anything we can do about this system, which is what it is. A senator agrees with me that it's not good enough, and we can't be proud enough. Or has an Icelander ever gone abroad and said when asked about Icelandic society: Yes, we're really happy with our social security system, and how they do it, how they do it, it shows the strength of our community what we do well there? No, at least I've never felt that way myself, though there's a lot in Iceland that we can be proud of and celebrate.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u52	Madam President. I'd just like to step up the climate here in a later answer, because financial funds are to be taken up, which were not looked forward to when budgets were taken care of. A year ago, the United States, with its ambitions for climate, was removed from two paces today. The budget set out a further 10 billion contribution to climate. Of these, half of them were to go to subsidies of cars, and much of them were to go to subsidies in cars that were somehow or completely powered fossil fuels, as strange as it may sound. As the government's ambition grew from 40% to 50% in emissions, this 10 billion was added to 1 billion, a 10% increase in the budget to be added. For one thing, this amount should be considerably higher. This is by no means close to the 4% of GDP that the United Nations calls for in fighting the climate problem. But shouldn't this also have been seen in the budgets of the year, where pride was increased? Is the fact that there is no special addition to financing, a small addition even, to show the alleged more ambitious ambition, yet another example of the government's ambitions on climate matters may be more expressed than on table?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u53	A respectable president. That's a sleazy question. There's a senator throwing out here. I personally sit on a financial and business committee where we have the bandor for discussion. It surprises you, considering that the government has taken a leap in terms of the objective of climate policy - now aims to reduce emissions by 55% by 2030 - that it is in no way reflected in the next year's financial and financial barriers. With regard to the income side, it may be difficult to catch - we don't want to start taxing back in 2021, but of course you would have intended to have some action on the cost side of climate change in 2021. But the same is true with regard to the income side, that in the 2022 budget it is not expected that green income and tax recovery will be used, for example. to speed up energy exchange. We can't see any jumps in that subject. We'll see, for example. that carbon costs rise by 2.5%, far below the price balance, which actually involves reduction of carbon costs. Was it not the last time the inflation was measured from 4How5%? It reminds us, of course, that when the government rules. In 2017, the prime minister of Henry's Katrín, Jakobsdóttir, made it possible that one of her first works was to cancel the rise of carbon bills that had been planned by a previous government during the reign of Benedikt the son of Jóhannesson. So this, of course, is an interesting continuation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u54	Madam President. I wanted to thank you very much. Yeah. A senator for the discussion of the government's financial cost and how can it be said that the inflation was not expected. The result is that there is actually an additional cost of 13 billion, as the above mentioned above. 13 billion are high, and at times we are fighting for 1 billion for it or something. Then there are questions. It was now, for example. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Secretary of finance for an interview today, and he was asked about the inflation that is now up to 5%. He said: "It's just a foreign inflation, as if it had no effect in this country. What does that count? A senator that we need to make sure that next year we do not get even bigger accounts? We know the inflation is up to 5%. Yet, every budget for next year is up to 2.5%. Is it not necessary to do something about these matters so that they are a little more specific next year?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u55	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for such meditation. Clearly, some of the largest triggers of inflation are attributed increases, increases in housing prices. This is some of the result -- well, nothing to some extent, this is, to the greater extent, the result of a fall in growth rate in Covid which would not have been so sharp if e.g. The government would have responded earlier by a powerful economic mechanism to protect people and businesses. In recent years, the European Union of Iceland has been very clear that the labor movement will provide a basic basis for what will be done in the transfer systems when it comes to child repairs and so, of course, when it comes to housing. As for the longer term, I think it is quite clear that one of the most beneficial operations that we, the public, can go on to stay the housing market and, therefore, reduce inflation for a long time, is to support more fully the general home system, where we are actually rebuilding to some extent the old labor base system. This is an extenuating way to increase the supply of practical housing for less income groups. I think we also have to do it for the number of intermediate groups. But I think it's totally clear to put additional contributions into the general apartment system. It is sad, of course, that there is no such thing, either in the budget or in the budget of the next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u56	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I completely agree with him that big things need to be done when it comes to the housing market and especially for those who don't have their money. How sad it is to see that the method established by the former government, the share loan, clearly does not work, for such an offer is not sufficient! However, since I don't have an economic gene in my family, I would like to ask: " Is it not a little vite cycle that you see in financial terms that there is always a total cost of what inflation is supposed to be, 2.5%? In other words, it will always be more expensive and expensive. We have to pay the government for these different things, whether it's alcohol or fuel fees or any fees, and all these costs are raised in the next year's budget by 2.5%. Does this not affect our need for a higher salary? Is it not, then, that the Kingdom also contributes to an increase in in in inflation and maintains by always raising the cost? I wanted to know what it was. A senator thinks so, whether or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u57	A respectable president. Hv. A senator asks about index elevations in various fees and its impact on prices. Of course it's pushing up prices. However, these costs are now being raised considerably less than inflation. I'm not a spokesman for allowing it to become an extreme inflation to reduce these large income mails or the state funds system. I wouldn't necessarily want to hold those charges back more than I already did by just letting them raise 2.5%. We talked about carbon money earlier, and I was wondering if there's a really real decline in the carbon account from year to year. This is one of the most efficient measures to counteract greenhouse gas emissions and affect the whole community. There are various ways to make sure that such elevations do not particularly affect income - bearing groups and vulnerable groups and the inhabitants of the scattered areas. But I'm still very fond of taxes and fees, that's just the way it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u58	A respectable president. Last December 13th, a bill was submitted to the General Assembly. On December 15, the bill went to the budget committee, allowing an unusually short period of time to discuss its contents on a financial committee. Even if time is short, however, important changes in the bill can be made for the better. As shown in the bill, the contribution of a government fund is considerably better than the budget of a year ago. Explain the difference. in rapid economic recovery and decline in unemployment. The wealth of the state is 63 billion dollars. over the year's budget expected. Thus, there is room for improvement for community groups who have not received proper government support during the pandemic. The effects of poorer and old - age pensioners have been greatly negative, both spiritually and socially. Many have had to isolate themselves because of their underlying diseases, and for the sake of preventative measures, services have been compromised. In recent years, inflation has increased, causing the worst in terms of low income. The people's party rejoices that solidarity has been obtained to pay a bonus of Christmas to farmers, 53,100 cents. tax and inadequacy. Indeed, many of them are remembered in this way. The government had so much as a paradigm for paying back what they had done. But after the great battle between Archusician people and members of government positions, and after thousands of invalids'pleas for help, there is a victory. But it is not enough to ensure microchip monopoly for Christmas. A number of pensioners live under the poverty line and find it difficult to make ends meet, especially Christmas when gifts and Christmas meals need to be bought. So we in the Son of Man, then, suggest a change in the bill that the same addition, 53,100 bucks, will be paid to the least incomeless pensioner group. So we suggest a change in the budget of the bill that three under the income of a pensioner receives a single payment for the same amount. The total budget of the proposal is about 610 million. K. And how is it made? Puberty patients are arranged for income to ten equally large groups. Each group is 3,840 individuals, so I'm precise. If three of these groups were given 53,100 K. That would be exactly 611.7 million. K. The government's financial and financial laws do not contain that amount of money. 53,100 k. However, there is a very large sum of money for three under the income of a pensioner, a money that makes a big difference during this time of year. This contribution, together with Christmas bonus disability, would be approved at the General Assembly, would demonstrate the irreverent will of the Allegis to make improvements for those most in society who want to face poverty in Iceland, one of the world's richest society, a land in the sixth place at OECD above the richest nations in the world. It is a black mark in Icelandic society that talk about poverty is as common as it really is, a black mark that can be eliminated is a will at the General Assembly. It must be made clear at the Council and now before Christmas and with the approval of this transition. V.E.G. When asked about his position on this proposal, the minister of social matters said in unsubstantiated inquiries that she would receive a legal treatment. V.E.G. A minister did not strike her out of the table, so there is hope. That hope lies in the hands of the government and the Congress. Let us hope that our hope will be fulfilled, as in the case of a desperate person with the legal committee's proposal. The people also suggest that provisions for providing food, food distribution, be made strong by a government fund. The total budget of the budget will be 100 million. K. This organization plays a vital role in helping poor families in their desperate need. The demand is always the most about Christmas, and the organization is eager to give more than they can. Support to food - assigned relief groups is supported by families that need the most help in the community. Let's help everybody celebrate Christmas.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u59	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. I agree with him that it's a happy thing if he succeeds, which he looks like, that the poor are getting this one for Christmas right now. I just wanted to talk to you for a second. A senator on the time of the monopolitan and the stubbornness of the administrative sector, which may cause the desperate to receive the monopolitan pay, the lack of regret, and the stubbornness of failure to respond, not wanting to do what is right until the last minute. It's not quite clear that this will work for Christmas Eve. Who else would accept special Christmas missions at the Shrimp Mass? Is this not a somewhat vivid example of the attitude toward microgamy? It's all right to hand them a quarter of a Christmas handout and say, "This must be enough for you,'and you should take care of all the shopping you have to do in the short time that remains for Christmas. Is this acceptable? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u60	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator resists. Yes, it's a total lack of awareness, and dragging it this long also leads to hoping that the desperate will be paid for the village's Mass or the Village Mass. Last year, the executives for the one-off payment were the pandemic, Covid. They haven't changed, they're exactly the same assumptions now, so not to bring this on the budget immediately, and they don't expect this to be completely incomprehensible. Now everybody's in here wearing a mask but me, we know that the Covid situation is no better than a year ago, probably worse, and the situation is worse for this poorest group of people, the micropunchers, and the elderly as well. We've been in a pandemic for a long time and inflation and other things playing in, so to me, it's completely incomprehensible. It seems a bit like the attitude, but we were able to cope with the opposition and the tireless struggle to overcome it. I think it was the pressure and solidarity of the government that was here at work. This is one of the main struggles of the people and has been, he was founded on the interests of this group. However, this calls for a change of viewpoint in the Senate and the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u61	A respectable president. I totally agree. This calls for a change of attitude. It has also been said to this group that they have to wait for correction on their terms, after some overall review of the micro-energy pension system has taken place. This was said to be the whole last terms, it could not be improved in terms of the need for an overall review, which seems to be a beach. There must never be anything to improve this group's interests because there is an overall review. I often feel, a respectable president, like it's used to bend the cowardly struggle really down to the powder. If you don't accept what's right for you, then you won't get anything, and you'll wait until you agree to our system change requirements. This is the way it sometimes looks to me, to this excellent suggestion that we were able to achieve now, except for. Of course, I'd like to thank those who pressured us members and the government to do this national action, bring this exchange, and, of course, are very happy to have agreed on it. But I think a major reason for this failure in the government section, why we're finishing this right now on the final meters, and that it's not even certain that they're gonna get this by Christmas, is that they should always try to hold as much as possible that they have to have an overall review before anything can be fixed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u62	A respectable president. How vital that this change of viewpoint takes place! It is so expensive that it is so expensive that the poorest part of society, the desperate, and the elderly are at the lowest level of income. It's just the wrong attitude. And then we're a rich nation, and we're one of the richest society in the world, and the attitude is somewhat that we're rich because there are poor people here too. That too is a wrong attitude. I'm not going to start to analyze this attitude, any more, but it's perfectly clear that there's a change of viewpoint to take place. It's not expensive. It's not gonna cost much money. The current payment today as a transition to Stockholm is estimated to be 611 million. K. to three groups in the three lowest income spaces. There is not a large sum of money in the entirety of the budget or Icelandic community. There's really no problem doing this. This can be done now for the elderly. It may not be the village Mass or the Mass, which would be at the end of the year. A insurance agency can respond quickly, and hopefully it is now doing so for the poor. With regard to this song and the review of the global insurance system, I've heard it so often here in the public chair that you actually ask for someone to break up that tape. It's a complete premium. Of course, this can be done; it is now proved by monopolies for disability. It doesn't take a complete review of the social security system to pass through it. [[The president calls.]] It's just a drive through, and it's paid. Exactly the same today as for the elderly. The global re-examination of the social security system is a complete premium, and I wish that it will just be stopped. [[The president calls.]] It doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u63	Madam President. I'd like to begin with a speech or two. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll the son of Jóhannsson here, and mentioned my second section written by reason of the river. Kristrún Frostadóttir's daughter. That's where the Conspiracy's viewpoint on the matter is expressed. However, I would like to comment on these budgets and, in fact, the discussion about them. It may not necessarily be unexpected that in these circumstances we have discussed some of the money we received during the year. There's nothing ordinary about this year's journey and nothing predictable. However, this discussion cannot be eliminated entirely from the discussion of budgetary matters because it is possible to avoid, under certain circumstances and circumstances, that you have to discuss things in the interest of funds. fjárauki are assigned to discuss the unpredictable. But some of the things here are not unpredictable and would not have had to come about. You see, lack of long-term thinking will always come in our back. There were all classes in this epidemic that would have to be protected from people, businesses, and jobs. On the other hand, we explained how much and who should be protected first and how to use the help. But there is also the need to consider that all of these groups, people, business, and business, need to maintain seawater permanently, and they have not really guaranteed the government. In these respects, a lack of understanding is already involved. We've pointed to it many times, as well as other government groups, and put in bills, put in pact proposals, i.e. inquirys, and so forth, especially of the homes that have been a bit leftover size in all of this epidemic. However, it is also serious when entire sectors are not only in an unsecured position during the epidemic but also in the sense that it could become a permanent problem. So let's just take an example from last week, it's estimated that about 20% of everyone within the cultural and art sectors has disappeared from the article. At the same time, we can see funding as these sectors are being cut down. How are we going to make sure that these natural people during these disease prevention operations return and will be able to continue if there is no hope of strengthening these sectors in the future? This may be particularly serious because women are even higher in these articles, and it does not matter whether they are employees or contractors and monopolies; women are the most aggressive of all. This will be reflected in budgets at the same time as we know that creative articles and creative thinking will need to play a key role in our society for the next few years and decades if somehow we are going to succeed and we are to be able to get on with the changed world scene that we are facing. Of course, this would have meant taking the last of the funds, and it would have to be seen in the next legal act, but it will do nothing. Similarly, governments should have made it easy to see that inflation, far beyond what they would have been, could have come to our back, and could be subject to discussion here and payment. The cost of inflation has been estimated to be about 13 billion, 8.5 billion at financial costs, and 4 billion due to cost increase. It is also conclusive that the cost of inflation is to be written almost exclusively on rates of real estate. Then we must discuss here to some extent the government's economy through this Covid crisis. It was pretty strange to hear what happened. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson transports the majority of people here and does not mention that aspect, and somehow he attempts to protect them. Much of the neighboring countries we compare with, even to the west of the United States, who have run a little different from us, were given relatively higher money directly to the people who needed money, and it certainly wasn't the people who were thinking about changing their apartments. This was more done by giving the Federal Bank and other institutions the opportunity to let more oxygen into the economy by getting money started. It was done through the banks. Of course, we know how the banks work; they primaryly lend money because they are quite sure of receiving it back. And in the middle of an volunteer crisis, some outstandingly large and large property booths grew, which resulted in a tremendous increase in housing prices. These were not the use of proben as new buildings. These were not shallows, sinks, new walls, and then apartments after one, two years. This was more and less the interaction between people who saw an opportunity to grow older. And whether they find out that it was right or wrong, this must be a point we want to discuss in this room and ask us, "If I have that money, I'm going to have it. " were more protected by governments as a direct support to those who needed it and might have been in another environment of inflation? These are naturally bad because the people who least made their income, the people who became most serious to this Covid crisis, couldn't and were not thinking about taking advantage of the benefits of the situation. These people, at least Part of it, also, has much less space to deal with right now when it has to take action to improve it again, including with increased interest, so we suddenly have a group that is in trouble. And notice that interest increases will not just be affected by people who were growing up or changing apartments, they will bite every resident in the country. They will bite both those who have possessions in so - called hot areas, which we can expect to continue to increase in price and that people will receive them later, and they will also bite those living in cold areas, those living in areas where the cost of production is much higher than the market value of possessions. The people who may have been in a cage before, so at least at least they will remain. to as much as before. We cannot make up budgets, return funds, and sign out that everything there is unpredictable when it is possible that either funding the budget before or direct stimulation procedures have made a need for the funds. And that should be the subject of much more discussion. But now I stop being negative and come to something joyful, I'm sure it's a great joy to have 1,200 billion dollars. to allow payment of 53,000 k. one payment for disability. But let us also bear in mind that this proposal originally came from a position of government. There were many questions about her in unsupervised inquirys that included more than one and more than two ministers, and it was always dismissed that there might be an option. It wouldn't be planned. And governments that don't sit in the government didn't come here for the discussion, and they gave us some hope that we might be supporting this with us. As a result, there have been so extreme withdrawals that you now walk under your hand all over town to make sure that these blessed people, who are certainly not contained by this 53,000 K., can use them for Christmas. This is a pretty nasty thought, not to be able to just say right away: Yes, we caught this last year because of Covid. The circumstances are certainly not better now, with prices and continued epidemics, so we are going to do this again now. Then these people could surely have gone quieter to sleep at night for the last half of the month, but they were waiting with this until the last minute. But to be said, I'm happy, of course, that it worked and that it was done. I want to say something, too. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll's son Jóhannsson earlier said that this, of course, would not solve a problem. This alleviates a difficult situation, and this is certainly necessary and a good payment, which would have been sufficient for more. I mean, there are also elderly people who hardly have knives and spoons. You have heard examples of disability that will turn out to be 67 years old and that will suddenly change from being elderly to being deprived of it. So there are all kinds of defects on this system, and I'm not going to recommend an assembly to be revised. But we cannot shield ourselves indefinitely because there are poor people here and people in this area who are in trouble and distress and who cannot give gifts to children and grandchildren just because we have missed out on some system of our own. There will not be any difference in the United States, and I don't think any other government groups, attacking the system's revision. And, in fact, we've put in the bills, the changes, and the other things that could have stopped the quality of the room and will continue in spite of these budgets, because 1 percentage points on the top of legal increases will not be more than keeping up with inflation and will be 2 percentages under the general pay raise, which means that these people will continue to decrease back. But now I'm negative again. I'm going to end this by celebrating this monologue. But we have to talk about the context of the parts, stop acting forever in response politics, get ahead of it, see the future, and attack actions that we know will save us long-term cost. Then you could talk about the currency and things, and I can see why. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson would love to. But part of what we're discussing here today is either home-made by the government or a lack of a future thought.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u64	President. Speaking of the future, and fixing the problem and being ahead, I remember. A senator has a house - to - house matter. I find it interesting that in this financial bill, there are a lot of resources being searched for, such as starting a job, as I went over in my speech, but for example. not for housing procedures. We all know that there is a crisis at a housing market, that is missing more apartments, that has not been a real effort to build more apartments on the part of the government that the founding scholarships, e.g. About. There was some leftovers, some had to be returned, not all used. There was clearly no follow-up there. They had to do all the work, I understand it very well, but they also need 4,000,55,000 apartments to balance the housing market. If something is to be balanced about the future, such as the ocean. A senator noted, it can be noted that the main part of this year's inflation was by housing because of all the great assistance the government offered at the demand side. Helping people buy the few houses that were made simply make inflation because prices are rising and increasing. We didn't come here to say, "Hey, we were so successful in solving our housing problem that we spent 2 billion more on housing support, and we need to get clearances for it. No, it's not done. They are looking for 6 billion for the campaign, but their housing market was completely lost.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u65	Madam President. I wholeheartedly agree that our housing issues are huge, and it would certainly improve our position if we got a vision of a good future there. There is little more reliable than that. We have some reliable population forecasts, such as, we can predict the growth of tourists and such. Thus, it should be possible to create a system that guarantees a constant supply, and it should be the role of the State, not the least. In fact, the Company has provided a bill, which hopefully will be on the agenda, about the double of this founder, including... Because it must be done in order to achieve this goal. We also need a longer time to develop a healthy housing market that not only builds on special policy but also makes it preferable to be tenant. When a man shows up at this government council once a year, with a clear view that a survey showed that only one third of Icelanders want to be rented in comparison with other northern nations, he says nothing of Iceland's willingness to be rented because Icelanders are no different from any other people. However, it says that the rent market is poor and needs to be handled. So I think that time could be spent on a lot worse than taking here a lively and fertile discussion of housing matters, how we can direct the offer, and how we can develop flat solutions that offer real potential rent.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u66	A respectable president. According to the reports of the Homing and Mobilization Agency, it is possible to make up for ten years of this housing shortage. An additional number of apartments would have to be built every year, so that no longer lack of apartments is needed in addition to what needs to be built because of biological growth. Predictions in this field have repeatedly been based on a plan, that is what our story teaches us. So if something is, we should do more. But that is exactly what changes are made to the memory of the part, Pirata, the United States, Stockholm the people, and the exorbitant, to finance the minimum possible contribution to a Homic and Human Industry Institute, there are 3.5 billion in the housing support at least. to get this lack down in ten years. Of course, the goals should be far more ambitious in this regard, but would that not be the least? No matter how the production may be, the policy would be at least Clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u67	Madam President. Yeah, I totally agree. And because we have come to these parts, we also need to move on and think further. This government has destroyed the construction research of this country, and we do not know where it is headed. It is particularly shocking in a country with this warm weather, Iceland, where produce is low, both because of it but also because of old - fashioned and out - of - date construction methods that are also largely unsolvable. When this is played together in a country with a currency that has high interest rates, it is natural to make a poisonous mixture and very unlikely that you can achieve some results by always reducing the quality. I'm not sure we're going much further there.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u68	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The son of Einarsson's Logi for a fine speech. It is like a good speaker, it mixes sour and sweet so that all can get something for themselves. You feel sometimes when you're standing in this pit--and I've been doing it for a few years, even though I have been interrupted and I may not be here many times, but what about it--it sometimes feels like you're always living the same day, the same thing. Now that I've been participating in this sort of conversation for a few years, or a couple of years, let's say, and it's a very peculiar thing. I got a little silly when I was standing out here, right behind the People's House, and I saw Santa up on the City Hall wall, which is always drooping the bag and repeating it all the time. I thought what we're talking about was a little less like this Santa Claus. Now I'm not referring to a speech at all. A senator, to make it very clear, but we're always discussing the same thing, the presumption, the work we're building the budget, the budget and the government financial laws. It's always the same thing, that there's so little forethought. Of course, we know that times have been odd. They were very strange last year and before. But they haven't been that weird right now. It's an ongoing situation, but still, there's always plan and underestimate and then run off with extra cash. [[The president calls.]] I'm not saying there's not much in him that's entitled to him. But I just wanted to let me ask you what. A member of Parliament: Why is it that you cannot pull yourself out of this bike and to the highest level? A government can't do that? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u69	Madam President. It's nice to have some. paritaprevir Steindór Valdimarsson back here in the house. I think we need to accept having to talk about these things over and over, but I believe that the drop is hollow. On the other hand, about what we need to worry about and what we need to do, at least not a government that does not have a clear vision or a government in which the classes may have a clear vision but too different to unite. That's what we don't have. The result, however, is that people continue to beat the failures, not even doing them well enough to make them grow. I now believe that the day will come when voters will choose people and categories that have clear goals and a clear outlook or will choose a combination to prosper in choosing similar categories. Then there is hope that we can see some long - term thoughts. But all I can see is that such hope exists when you have a government class that has been in history for the past four years to be more arguing with one another than with the government opposition and matters have even come up on the board of government. I mean, all of us here have seen spokesmans of the left green and prosecuting class manage health issues. So I'll ask you back, "Do what." A senator sees the hope that this will give him a vision of the future?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u70	President. Thank you. A senator's answers. Yes, it's a question of whether we learn. I believe, though, that we are gradually learning, although it did not appear in the election. The broad solidarity that is always being said about is that it tends to end in quietness, that it is best to make the least of real changes that have lasting and real effects. The time is now so short here, but because of what. At the end of his talk with the euro, an example of not wanting to talk about basics, and the benefits and faults of the crown, we are experiencing a growing period, we are experiencing inflation. Of course, much of this is causing much misery, and it is not to be seen e.g. in the budget that it is usually taken into account. So I'm saying that I'm not very optimistic. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u71	Madam President. I never mentioned the euro, actually, I mentioned the currency. But, hey. A senator may have the right to agree that the euro is the choice we should look at. The currency could, in fact, create a much greater sense of responsibility for the public, especially in a housing market, a cheaper basket of food, with lower interest and so forth, but especially in the sectors that the State State State Department speaks a little too quickly about the need to emphasize, the innovations that are highly dependent on our stable environment. We have seen an example that all profits have just gone out of the window of very important and good companies in a few months because of changes in gangs. So that's what we're at. A senator agrees.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u72	Madam President. I just wanted to talk to you for a second. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson about what I feel is a certain irresponsibility that has marked this government for some time, and it is this home-made time press that we are always under here at the council and is always taken care of by the side of government and the one that should be least. I'll be right back with what. A senator, of course, would do well not to be just negative in speeches, and of course I wanted to give them a reason. A senator also has an opportunity to respond positively. However, I must come in, too, that the more part is persistent for a week and will not admit that it is a standing act of payment. And now all of a sudden, it's a big time pressure, because otherwise it won't come in before Christmas. But what responsibility do we have for this temporary crisis? Some might try to direct her to the government's side, but of course, this responsibility is at the home of the government and the administrative sector, which could not reach its correct conclusions quickly enough. I think it's part of a pattern like choosing to vote in the fall. I mean, a lot of the reason we're in this time pressure right now is simply that a decision was made, because it was the government's option, to vote on autumn days. It was very convenient to have no council to function fully in the pursuit of elections and, of course, best to hang on to the thrones as long as possible, completely out of the way what it means for the council, for the quality of money, for the time we have to discuss the money, before the time we have to discuss how the council, which has the legal authority, wants to set it up. So I wanted to ask you why. A senator: Does he notice this pattern I am referring to?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u73	Madam President. Yeah, I notice this pattern. I'm not sure that's a coincidence. There are many things that have led me to believe that the government just wants it this way, because somehow it's the most painless thing to do without discussion in this way. There is no doubt that if people decide to leave for the store three minutes before closing, if they could have been there an hour earlier, they will be less likely to come to the store. This was to be known to the government when she made those fall elections. I have full tolerance for this and the correct understanding that she could sit even longer. But with the nation's interests in mind, I think it would have been wise to accept the offer and wishes of government opposition then to have spring elections. I think it's a better time for us the way we've been doing things. Of course, unexpected things came into that which may not have done better, but it's something that tells me that the government even took advantage of that opportunity to stir only the pots and pull out something right that no one still knows what's gonna cost or how it's gonna look. Of course, the worst manifestation is this unnecessary amount of money for a few days on this remuneration that will delay the necessary recovery, an emergency relief.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u74	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Yes, indeed, the government under law could serve for even another month, but I think it was organized because if they had served another month, they would have had to make financial contributions. They would not have avoided offering election funds, showing out the cards that they were obviously not willing to do. We can see that, for example. Only with a financial strategy where ministers were in a hard race under their own financial agenda. It's my memory that an episode of VR is on, which we're talking about. A senator, who was with us, held the highest. Wet minister, he's now, saying it's just a plan, and there's nothing to it. But now it's very comfortable to have this plan. So I think that this disorganization is just something planned, and it should not and must not allow the orderlessness of the government to take over or restrict the freedom of the government. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u75	Madam President. I also decided that the officials of the government groups spoke extensively about the fact that there was nothing to be determined by this financial plan because there was an election coming, and something else happened after that. It didn't happen. Funds were provided that were simply based on this financial program. I thought it was pretty cheap for them. But I don't think that's possible because individual government groups don't have the will to implement good things. I think it's just what I was talking about. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson. Here we have just so different categories that they feel better when nothing happens because they cannot agree on the dramatic or large decisions we need for the future. The task of politics for the next few years is, of course, that they work together with those who have similar views and then take positions of government that have conflicting views.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u76	A respectable president. We'd like to start by talking about the good news that has come to the budget, these 53,100 bucks. which will be paid for microbubble. That's exactly what we're trying to get it out of us, so it's a waste of time and it's going to be possible to pay it out hopefully tomorrow, but at the latest, at the Simon's, and it's not gonna work. Those who receive this and who need it most have waited and waited for righteousness. This group waited four years for justice, all the time the last government, and received a little justice for the sake of the Covid, the 50,000K. $1, and now we're gonna get 53,100 bucks. The gap between these increases corresponds approximately to the rise to take place at the end of the year. What may be a bit strange about the increase during the New Year's season is the fact that inflation has run its course. We can only see that inflation has already reached 5.1%, that's the latest numbers, and increased by 0.45% between months. With little in mind, then, that without housing teams, inflation is 3.3%. It tells us that the housing team is important in the inflation industry. It is strange that the housing staff should raise so much and not be handled in one way or another. As mentioned in the discussion, housing prices at the highest levels are as well as housing shortages, and of course the government will not handle that problem either. One of the strangest things in this budget, especially in the Committee opinion of him, is this strange statement on the budget of the Covid-19. It is clear that we are adding up expenses for Covid-19 by 23,611 million. K. If we put this number in perspective with anything, this is probably one-third of the university hospital. It's a huge amount of money, so it's too strange to put in one package, in the opinion of more part of the budget, the cost of performance at vaccination, and the screening on the border. One of the operating costs of the Land Hospital is just over 5 billion, and this is not disintegrated. Isn't it strange that at the same time we're fighting with our mouths and paws for 53,000 bucks, which finally got through? We've also noted that the rate of raising the income market in the same amount as for an older citizen has not been reached in 200,000 k. - at the same time we're always saying there's no money for this, that we're paying millions, even hundreds of millions, for people and to do what? Go to the party, go to the theatre? I say for my part that I think it's quite normal in this condition, when there's no money for people who need food and medicine, that those who intend to have fun for fast-tests. That's what I think it is. I don't doubt it for a minute that those who do this can afford it anyway and would totally agree that there's nothing to pay the speed tests for the largest group in society. And that this is not to be torn apart so that the cost can be accurately discerned. What we have not carefully considered, however, remains the cost. Of course, we cannot enter into the future as to how this epidemic will develop, but we can see that it is always talking about that now it is disappearing or being diluted. But we've been saying the same thing for two years, and we don't know how this will develop. It's a question of whether we're publishing some unfilled vixile into the future about the cost of the virus. Unfortunately, there seems to be a bad grip on this expense, and somehow you have a feeling when you put it in one number that you're trying to hide something, there's something in there that someone doesn't want to see, even though it's not like that, but it's natural for you to wonder if there's something hiding in this case. The second thing that I saw at a committee meeting is that dental expenses and physical therapists are reevaluated by 2.1 billion, as well as 2.6 billion due to reassessment of drug costs that are probably related to Covid. But physical therapy and dentistry are the costs that have increased, and in particular, I think by means of Covid disease. In this context, I feel that I am missing and would have wanted to see in this financial bill that the cost was inserted, expected to be negotiated, which is to negotiate with e.g. speech pathologists, physical therapists, expert doctors. It's a class that's been out of control by the government, no treaties. What's dangerous about this is that the government has a huge cost to the worst people, people who are sick and who have children, e.g. in the case of speech pathologists and physical therapists who have unacceptable waiting lists. It is, of course, unacceptable when people are in a position where they feel that they cannot afford to take their children to the telepaths, cannot afford to go to physical therapy, and cannot afford to go to a specialist. Unfortunately, the government seems to be on those pants, as shown, to have nothing to do with the whole thing. Rather, it seems to have patches. In this context, I'd also like to see in my budget a good amount to handle the NAPA problem, the user-controlled personal help, because we see, on the air, in television interviews that a young man is being put in a nursing home. Look at this. Who wants to go to a nursing home between 40 and 50? The fact that there are 144 persons under 67 years of age in nursing homes should ring any alarm bells. They should call it a warning bell right in here that we'd take care of it. Because if we can and can afford to add 23,611 million extra to Covid, we can afford to deal with this problem. We can't just afford it, we have to deal with the problem. It is not acceptable to have things like this, to be praying, in despair, for help not to be locked up in a nursing home. We also have an unsolved problem where people in a nursing home protest their circumstances. Nowhere in the bill is it really being handled and put in money to solve the problems of nursing and nursing. That there are still two in a room. The fact that the only option to be alone in a room is to just say goodbye. It's so far - fetched that you feel like you're in a different world. I say, where has this government been for the last four years? The answer is simple. She's just been jumping out of beds and stuff like that, shoving her shoulders and trying to keep her shit together. And keep what unchanged? Yeah, let's keep going, like I've listed here. There seems to be no one to change that. As I say, a Band-Aid happened to the microcircuits, 53,100 bucks, but this patch didn't happen to the pensioners. We must not forget that there are pensions out there who have incredibly poor income. We know, of course, that it was raised for those who are in poor quarters, but it was only raised to the lowest pensions and it was still within 10% less. You don't live in the lowest pension, you can chew at 220,000 bucks. But if you get 10% less plus a cent in return to a dollar of everyone else's earnings, it's some ridiculous financial violence that's not supposed to be tolerated. Also, we in this room are not to be tolerated over and over again. The Constitution is to make sure that it is not, and we are to respect and respect equality, and we are also to treat our older citizens, our elderly, who have built up this country, with respect. We should not allow them to get what is right just like everyone else. I think it's absolutely time for this government to begin to respect our country's older people and make sure that they're all at the same level as the others. They do not make any more demands. They now required about 17,000 K. an increase instead of 10,000 bucks. increase. This is a modest requirement, but they will still ignore it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u77	Madam President. Thank you. A candidate for a good talk, and many important things were mentioned there. One of the things that struck me a bit was the discussion of action, the Covid action, and how little has really been done to support the people themselves, especially those who have the worst conditions, disability, and older people. In this regard, I'd like to ask why. A senator. Now there's a little talk that we're even going into a new epidemic with the ultrasound variant, and we're even dealing with even more waves than we had to deal with so far. Then it's a perfect opportunity, you'd think, for the government to bring a new operation for next year, let's say we're under Covid for the next year. Now they should take some action for the worst. Then I'm not talking about the companies, I'm talking about the individuals. What would that be? A senator recommends that matter to the government?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u78	A respectable president. Thank you. Rafn Ólafsson Gísli Gólafson for the inquiry. The answer is very simple. If I was to decide what would be done right after the New Year's Eve, I would stop taxing the least of the hands I have. If we take the lowest paid group of the worst, they're still -- think, they're not gonna survive, they're under the poverty line, and they're still about 35,000,440,000. I say, it's just that it's paying for poverty. Looking ahead now, there is 5.1% inflation and a 5.6% increase in social security. We can only see where this is going, the extra 0.88 is eating up in the inflation. It tells itself that something has to be done. It would have to happen now. The government could, for example. Already the demand for senior citizens is raised by some 17,000 dollars. ... butnot10,000K. They'll increase the pay development, not the strange calculations they've always used to achieve - to pay their pay off on and under insurance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u79	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I agree completely with what. A senator that there are many things you can do to make life easier for these people, and I know that I am. A senator will fight for them here. But there was something else. A senator, and it's a budget and a budget. I must admit that after I went through this document, I was almost no closer to what was going to spend the money. I want to know what you're doing. A senator proposes that these matters be improved so that they do not need a doctor's degree to read them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u80	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's answer is that I cannot help but agree deeply with him. If he thinks it's complicated, the budget isn't any better. These accounts are 2,600,700 pp. And I'll just admit that this is one of the most boring readings I've ever been able to get close to, it's just to say what it is, because it's all set up. I think it's an old habit. They try to complicate things. It's trying to keep it as omnipotent as possible. They try not to let everything surface. Then you ask yourself, " Why? ' What's being hidden? It's the only conclusion that comes out of this; it must be hiding something since they have it this way, because it should be much easier to keep it all on the surface. The other must be quite complicated, trying to plant this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u81	President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson for his excellent speech. He was there many times, and now we are not surprised to learn that he is well acquainted with the various sections of this system that he was told about. What I wanted only to hear. It is that very often when the matter is being discussed with reforms and suggestions are offered, some of the proposals of government now and before, it is very often answered: Yes, it is all the best and much about what is said. But now, at the door of the full reexamination and minister of the jury, there is a very good plan to correct everything that might have gone wrong, so let's not rock this boat, because we need a careful job here, etc. Now I know what to do. A senator has witnessed a variety of overall reviews, or should we rather call it a plan for a total reexamination? I would like to ask him: " Does he have any faith in the success of such promises? At the same time, we may add another: What makes this seem so difficult? We know that the systems are not perfect, far from it, and that's what we're talking about. But somehow it seems to be so hard to fix it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u82	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson Steindór for the inquiry. This is a great inquiry in many ways because it is often the basics that have been presented here in the discussion, i.e. Review of social security and all the relevant committees and time and reports and paper documents. I don't know how much it is. I was on the Pétur Blöndalur Committee, and I was on the last committee, and unfortunately, all this calling work and all of it has crossed over on simple things, that is, trying to force someone into some system that is created by people who have never lived on the other side of the wall. To tell someone out there who's been living in this situation for some year, even ten years, that we're just going to create a perfect system, we're here at a council that's never been in this system, we've already found the real solution and we're just going to force you into this system. Dead from the beginning. The only way to create such a system is to talk to those who are supposed to enter the system, get them to the table, leave those there, and the money to fight for these people to the table and create a system and follow it. I am absolutely convinced that it could be done. And like doing it like that. The Swedes responded when they asked everyone to go out and find work and stay out for two years. Thirty percent failed to return because there were people there on their terms, not on the grounds of those who created some system.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u83	President. Thank you. A senator for the answers that were of interest. Of course, I do not intend to detract from the fact that these issues are complex and often difficult to look at. Yet, you are amazed that it is not possible to get closer to you. They often say nothing about us without us. I think it's a good methodology, really always or always, but it doesn't seem to be able to do it that way. I would like to focus my words on something else. Now the Covid incident has been going on for a long time, and we're making a breakthrough, and we don't exactly know where it is going. That is the question about those whose feet are standing, whether in social or in good health, poorer, or elderly: Is not the exact time then to add to such factors as these? physical therapy, psychological services, diligent workouts, and what are their names in order to help people feel better? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u84	A respectable president. I thank a senator for his inquiry. Yes, it is now. We know there's a lot of stress on the physical therapy system, and there's also tremendous stress on the system in connection with replacement operations. The waiting lists have multiplied, and this is becoming a masquerading situation. When you talk to a person who has been on a waiting list and knows that he can go abroad for an operation but can't find out that because he has an underlying disease and out of the Covid and everything - he could, you know, walk over the street because he lives right next to the clinical community, but he can't go anywhere, though, three times as cheap as the other - we're on the wrong way. Then, as I say, we save the money, and cast the crown, which is wanton. This is one of the things I say we have to deal with. We cannot be producing disability, refusing an honest man for this kind of service, and making him desperate. Then, with the other hand, we're going to get him back, to prevent him from becoming an invalid. Let's just start by healing him.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u85	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's talk and his great effort were accomplished here in the Hall of Congress over the years. I must admit that as I often agree with it. At times, a senator may feel that he is not quite reasonable in his presentation of what is being done. I cut particularly at the end of the night. A senator received a discussion about nursing homes and the fact that young people are actually forced into a nursing home with a much older person. I take my mind to that point, and I've been here many times. I think it's important that we combine with each other on a more varied solution. Hv. A senator specifically mentioned MPA, of course, which we are adding only to the budget bill, but I'm sure we should do more. But, Mr President, I think it's so important to watch the bigger picture, that it's not just a nursing home where the older people are, or MPA. There are other farm options that we need to look into. I think that's exactly what the interest groups were fighting for. The elderly, in fact, mentioned it particularly before the last election. So I'd like to encourage you. The welfare committee and the highest. A health minister continued in his work that we thought of a more varied solution, meeting people in the matter of different options. Hv. A senator also mentioned it specifically that because we could afford to put all this money on the Covid operation, we should be able to afford to put money on other good subjects. I'm pointing that question to why. A member of the council doesn't consider it right now, when we're about to finish the second year with this virus, change your priorities and possibly take some of the money we're putting in Covid's surgery and spend it on something else. But also, a respectable president, it is important that we remember that the government funds are in serious favor, and we are, of course, taking a loan that our children will be paying for in the future because of the actions we have had to take.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u86	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir That's Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir's joke for some great questions. When it comes to these farm plans and what's going on, we're in a box and we've been stuck in it for a long time. I think it's because we haven't really taken this discussion seriously and really made it right. Yes, you can, and there are other options. Then it's just a matter of people who want something else, they probably have an idea of something other than MPA, some of whom may not be able to handle it either, and who just want to have something else. This, of course, is what we need to get into. Yeah, well, it's costing us 23 billion. But where should we get money? We're in a position now that we have, for example, ours. a decrease in bank tax and taxation of tender taxation, and something else that could be used. But at the same time, I'd say we could find some money. Maybe we'll put 500 to 600 million. K. in changing the Ministry, as we're doing now, to create another Ministry, we put 440 or 460 million. K. in RUS and 400 million in private media. There's always this kind of money I'd say wouldn't be necessary. We could use them much better by helping those who are in terrible circumstances and for whom we are to do something for.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u87	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's answer and concerns and conversations that may be of great interest in our discussion afterward. But now we're discussing the budget, and there's a very important proposal to which we've all come together, both more and less, on the budget board. So I wonder now, when it's almost seven o'clock, if we're not just going to be going to try to finish this discussion so that we can get a deal on that bill, on the budget, but then we can take a better discussion on the budget and on our big financial agenda right after that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u88	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir That's Bryndís's daughter's Haraldsdóttir for the answer. Yeah, I can totally agree with her. But if we look at the facts, we've talked about the money for only three hours. There's not much discussion, and it seems to me that this is going well, and I think everybody agrees that this is something we're going to finish because we know it's on. This has to be paid out in the morning, at the latest of the Hotel Mass. We know there are people out there who are just waiting for us to finish this. I have no faith in anything but that we do and do it with dignity. But I still think we need only patience that we need to talk about this. In the overall context, I don't think three or four hours are a lot of discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u89	President. We're here to discuss a bill for financial support. For this reason there are many words, and I'm going to review some of the points in this context. First, we should review how the government's finances are organized. They're organized in such a way that we have financial policy, then we have the budget, and we have the budget, and it's all supposed to be talking. A key element of this too is a five - year financial program. However, the budget on budgets is thought to be meeting expenses that have been dropped and are unexpected and must be addressed. Then there is a legal arrangement to accept a specific law on this subject. It has been difficult for many years to misuse this method. However, there are unexpected events that need to be addressed, and I think it is safe to say that the Covid epidemic is an example of this. This was the case when that epidemic began here, and no one really knew what was to expect that, in the case of a government that is largely present, there was no problem. What was to be done? No one knew exactly how this would have affected, what time this would take, or what steps needed to be taken. At that time, it was quite clear that the government's work was being done on the street of these cases. Today, we have had a number of experience with this epidemic, unfortunately, the measures to take and the consequences of the epidemic. Now there's more than half of what is suggested in this budget for Covid, but it's only about Over half. I think it is safe for me to say that there has been no resistance, and there has been no delay in any way in which their measures were taken in this context. So this is not the problem and the government has not opposed many of these expenditures. By means of this financial arrangement, governments, the government, are in a way entrusted with the authority to decide almost alone what is unexpected and unpredictable. And it can be used to excess. Just as important is being used with the money set out in this way. This is the first. Sadly, as the epidemic has affected the government's will to have a good conversation and to cooperate with the government's opposition to the best of these matters. But there is also light in the darkness, and especially is it a joy to accept the wishes of the object, the opposition, which is, of course, a false name, a position of government. I don't like it. I don't think there's any particular opposition to the government. However, it's smaller things, and it gives control. It's a very important job to maintain the government. But at any rate, the initiative to cooperate in the smaller parts was made so that there was great emphasis on adding support to the disability donor, and it will be of great importance to very many. The majority of them can be commended for agreeing, even though it would be a considerable effort to get him to do so. It is also true to bear in mind that this need must be put in line with the budget and what humans are thinking about the future. There has been a lack of a clear view of the government. This was made clear in the discussions earlier today, and it was clearly evident when the Ministers prepared answers in unsubstantiated i'm going to say penpen, within the government on which to deal with the epidemic, and very clearly that very many members of the management team are becoming very disturbed about how to deal with this problem. You need to try to think ahead, and this has been called very much after the urgency of action. It has always been answered, so there is nothing predictable in these substances. It is, in part, true, but not entirely. It has, for example. Long before that, it is important that health care, especially the Landstics, emergency services, be able to care for those who search there and that they will not remember at the same time in their usual medical care. It's been gone a long time. It's also in the past, but there's been a policy, it should be accepted, to watch out for the health system. I think that's a very sensible course. But it is not good when this policy involves that the bottleneck in the medical system, which is the emergency service and what is related to it, is totally in control of our social tolerance. And in order to cope with it - because we do not tolerate too many infections because it fills the hospital and there is no way to care for people - we must start to resort to disease prevention and shut down the community. We stand at that time right now, we are in that situation. This has been a two-year policy, the whole epidemic, to protect health care, emergency health care, but it has - I'm not going to say that nothing has been done because it's not fair, but it's not been done at all enough to establish this priority service, this emergency service, so that the hospital can, although only temporarily while we're wondering if we're looking a lot of years ahead of time or what, we've been doing some significant more patients before, and thus we can be in a community where life is going on a normal path. Because, of course, it's not just money, I don't just want to talk about some money and some company or money or whatever it is or what it might be, which is a very important subject anyway. Of course, we're talking about people's health and constantly going in and out of isolation and infection, working at home, working away from home, etc., breaking school - it has so much potential for a very long time. Hence, they are not used badly to try to loosen this bottle - neck of the bottle in order to reduce the much social impact that others will experience. Unfortunately, the government has failed as it should. It'll just have to be said straight, exactly as it is. This may be the most serious thing about all of this. I have a feeling that if it goes along as we look, we're going to go back to that period at the same time in the year where we're going to have to put up some extra cash. In fact, I believe that there are other budgets to be done next year because of the lack of concern, the plan is not clear enough. Whatever. The prime minister wants to say about it, so it is not clear. I think it's wise that I don't have this speech much longer, but I think it's just so much of what we're doing. Forethought, visualizing what happens or can happen. There must be more demands on the government that there is a communication plan, a response to it. Here I am speaking to the government. I'm not talking to the health system, and I'm not talking to the D.A. or the Trie, which I think was doing a very good job and that I really appreciate it. But that's forethought, and now I'm going to turn my song a little into a cross at the end and point out examples of complacency or the appearance of men who don't seem to think things through. The funds contain a substantial increase in contributions to reimbursement for film making. That in itself is fine. This is a tax team, which is a fairly unique form of reimbursement, a percentage of the production costs in film making. The increase in the budget is up to 1.5 billion. But it's so strange that it's three times higher, that extra production, than the increase that's being offered for next year's budget. It is as if you assume that filmmaking will be considerably smaller in the next year than in the last one. It will take a turn when people proclaim a great deal of effort and intensity. In addition, the minister of culture has proclaimed an increase in the reimbursement rate. I feel so clear about the fact that there's so little forethought. I'm going to rephrase this: The motive is not enough, so we will always go back and forth in these financial provisions. This is a very bad arrangement, and all discipline disappears. And sad to say, we are moving closer to the situation that was when it was too bad, and that is very sad. I don't think there's anything else to be done but to encourage the government to impress these matters and to be doing much better than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u90	V.E.G. President. It is a real pleasure to see that more of the money committees listened to the desperate monopolitan plea for this Christmas. It was a call that we in the government stand high here in the palace wall of the Generals; a cry that certainly had the right to end a call from those who live at what must expect; a cry of praise as high as possible. Government ministers were not ready to listen, and they tried to choke on the need for a system change. The system change, perhaps ever to be made during this ideal period, would not have provided the assessment of this Christmas. Happily, there were enough government forces to recognize the need to ensure the microplasia. I thank them for listening. I thank them for letting justice and victory prevail. - My dear cripples, your voice is important. Let it continue to be heard, for you are still in a far country when you enjoy the equation you deserve. V.E.G. President. That's my hope. Congress members stand together and complete the formal process related to this single payment right now tonight so that insurance agencies can pay it out in the morning. Desperates can't wait any longer. The poor need to be able to celebrate Christmas, and that's what we need. Councilmen showing that we can put human kindness ahead of political battles.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-14.u91	Madam President. I want to say something. The senator he just spoke of. There is good work to be done. We, along with others, have been giving these Christmas prices for all this month, approximately every day, I think I can say, and it's a great pleasure to know that they've been listened. I think it's gonna do a lot more than just the recipients of this donation that makes my heart rejoice. I give praise to a government that listens to ideas, wherever they come from. I trust that this is a narrow but highly advanced guide and that the social security system will already be started next year's year in order to reorganize in behalf of those who need it. That's why I'm saying one big thank you.
