ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u1	President wants to announce that at the conference of the NATO Council of Iceland held yesterday, December 7, Andrés Ingi Jónsson was elected vice president. At a meeting of the Western Council held yesterday, December 7, Australia was vice president of Ásthildur Þórsdóttir Kín. At a meeting of the European Parliament, held yesterday, December 7, Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir Kín was vice president. Then was the meeting of the Council of Northern Ireland held yesterday, December 7th, Oddný G. A difficult Harðardóttir of vice president of the United States.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u2	Today, the President intends to have this program slightly longer than a political body should assume that as many as 20 members of the council will reach it. It can be explained that there was some kind of technical error in registration that made the registration not accurate here this morning. Thus, as many as 20 members of the council will find out about the work of the council. The president also noted that after discussing the activities of the council, there will be votes on variations.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u3	Mr. President. First, I'd like to congratulate all members of the Parliament on a suitable and new government to congratulate and Mr. President on their orders and wish all success in their work and that they may be of great benefit to our people. One present held his virgin talk in 2004 and then discussed feelings of distress because of what was then over; an unexpected involvement in Iceland's involvement in the Iraq War that I and many others felt bad about being earmarked. I would agree that our conscience as members of Congress and Ministers must all be in our business here. But most of all, I just want to remind all of us how fortunate we are to a nation. When I look around, from president to president here, and compare it with what we know in other countries, even within our own European region, I think we should thank you for the fact that most of us are in better shape than many neighbors have to accept. I think we need to see, too, that there is an unusually high quality that rests upon us as we look at how rich we are. It's the fishing grounds, it's the green energy that everyone wants to use, that's land quality, that's what many are seeking, and that attract tourists to the rest of the country. Then there is the new branch, which may not have been much yet, but is the fish - burning industry. [[The president calls.]] That's why I say: Let us realize that there's enough, and I strongly suggest that we do what was done in part last year, that we give 100,000 dollars. The tax and inadequacy flow to those who have the least in society, disability, and older citizens. [[The president calls.]] - I thought two minutes didn't go so fast.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u4	The president reminds us that two minutes pass quite quickly in the public speaking program.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u5	A respectable president. We have a new government in Germany. It was remarkable to observe the formation of that government, this is a center-free left administration. She's been developing since the election in Germany, or the day after our election took place here. It was somewhat different that this film was being developed; as early as three weeks after the election, the German people were informed as to what sort of classes had come together and what would have to be done better. So the German people were informed of every step taken by the government groups except here: Not even the members of the government were allowed to know what the situation was throughout the eight or nine weeks of government development here. It is a bit fun to observe this new liberal center in Germany, which places great emphasis on and is very progressive on climate matters. It's a financial responsibility. There's an equal gender percentage in the government. She puts health matters first, the whole timed, measurable goals that follow there, and then she even allows herself to put a little controversial freedom issues on the program, she dare. I wish her luck with her jobs. Whether in the economic sector, it is important that Germany remain as progressive as it has been. But it must, and therefore, a new political agreement makes clear, cleaning up the climate. I wish for the new government of prosperity. But at the same time, I have to say that I am reluctant, but I thank Angela Merkel, a political leader, not just Germany, but Europe. It has truly been a model for many, especially for women around the world. Although I have been able to criticize her over the years, she has dared to stand firm with her convictions. She has had her arms open when refugees have been received despite a lot of criticism within her ranks and from the right fanatics in Germany, which are found within her party, but especially from the AfD class. It was symbolic that the German Parliament, except for a group of right extremists, who did not. I say thank you, dear Angela Merkel.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u6	The president reiterates what was previously said, that the speech period is two minutes, not two and a half minutes, and asks the speakers to keep that in mind. There is a clock in the speaker's chair to indicate how long they will have.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u7	Mr. President. A topic related to the global peace of Dranga in Aarnesfjord has been a matter of discussion for over 24 hours now. I'd like to point at this occasion to the highest degree. A president who obviously knows that in the Treaty of the administrations that have now met together for the renewed cooperation of this election period, it is assumed that there will be a fall from the ideas of a highland park, but instead, an expanded expansion will be implemented on the basis of the present lakeland park. In this context, I'd like to review some of the events that took place here in the summer that led to one member of state, the current Minister of State, the Supreme Minister. Minister Jón Gunnarsson, declared that if the election had not been delayed, he would, and no doubt more, but, in all cases, he withdrew his support for this government. In view of this, this planned expansion of the Lake Earth park by the time it was supposed to be in the Skaftärst year - long [ Credit Line] Then it will happen in the last few hours of the Ministry. The former environmental minister of Guðmundur the son of Ingi Guðbrandsson, that the Clan world is at peace. What I want to direct here to the highest. The president is that when a matter related to the old Highland National Park and the current extended Waters Earth National Park are being discussed at the council, he will direct it to the officials of the government to the loss of this legal authority to change the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u8	A respectable president. In recent years, we have increased the support of employment through powerful software industry and tourism. The opportunity there is especially in the country. One of the main premises of the rural sector is the availability of electricity, and the demand there has never been more. This is an expression of great power in society. But the transmission system of the electricity is a neck of a bottle. It is a shock to the nation that at the beginning of long - awaited fur farms, power supply of electricity must be reduced to fish farms and other major user uses because of the insufficient transport capacity of energy. As a result of the cutting off, the water supply is forced to burn fossil fuels for production that could be powered by green energy, the use that this article considers to be able to study up to 20 million gallons [20 million L] in the season. The situation is that national importances, such as electrical transport systems, cannot be used to provide the services of a job life because of problems on the system. At the same time, it is tragic to know that annual electricity loss occurs, corresponding to the performance of Kraft activation. We've had opportunities for sustainable energy use to go by and we haven't been able to simplify enough rules to benefit everyone. At the same time, it's clear that this will go against Iceland's energy and climate policies. So I want to encourage the highest. ...and I know that the Secretary of Energy and Climate is moving fast. I have full faith that we will achieve a solidarity here on the structure of important structures. It is a national agreement, not just for the growth of the nation's economy and prosperity, and not merely to keep us from throwing away employment tools because the infrastructure cannot simply demand, but for the future of generations to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u9	Mr. President. I see myself forced to come here only after the discussions that took place in a councilroom yesterday, where there was trouble. The members of the Central Party took the initiative to discuss the peaceful conditions of the earth Dranga on the beach. I believe, Mr President, there must be a minimum requirement for us senators here to handle matters correctly when we begin our discussions like this. However, in an effort to keep the right things to them, as we have seen in the media today, the minister's declaration of peace was not carried out in the shelter of night, nor was it at all in discriminate with those who own the earth as it has been observed, especially in the case of the minister that he would go on a peaceful course for the earth. That's where the ownership rights are rich, I think we senators here must join together. So as a result, this project has been under way since 2018 in the successful cooperation of its members. And it may be the turning point in this peaceful light, since this is the first time it is under way to activate the laws of nature protection to express peace in an uninhabited area. They are scarce in Europe. However, we live in Iceland to have a considerable number of the Europeans left uninhabited. So I welcome this interest, and this rich man wants Dranga's landowners at the Beaches to work slowly and slowly, in agreement with all the parties. So that they can be fed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u10	A respectable president. First, I'd like to congratulate the President on his office, well chosen. I would also like to join in the annual campaigns for new senators and wish those elected in the last election to congratulate the elected and congratulate new members of the council and members of the Committee and officials for their happiness, and look forward to cooperation. It was a pleasure to hear from a new senator. paritaprevir Berglind Ósk Guðmundsdóttir, just before, giving such a fine virgin talk here at the council and talking about the future which is the young people's future, measured by it itself. It turns out, my friends, there were a lot of flaws in autumn elections. After a 140 - day break, we finally got together, and it was heard by many of the senator that the intermission was unusually long. We know the reason why it was, because of the situation in the northwestern district, which has already been resolved. But it was also heard by many members of the Parliament that there was not enough time to discuss financial matters. But what happened when we started discussing the laws of the law? Then it was a new time to slow down all work here at the council. This is similar to the end of our last session, and we are not accustomed to having the tactics of the council, as we have shown during the past few days. I hope it works. I didn't like much intermission, and I don't think it was the most pleasant thing to do, but I took advantage of the opportunity to care for my district and to care for the people there, and I think the members of Congress should have taken it to heart and would have done so too. It's a lot of work to do in the votes, take care of the people and represent them here at the council, and that's what I will do.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u11	A respectable president. The commercial wheel is moving, and the economy is about to begin. The demand has increased, and producers are responding. At the same time, the nation's energy consumption has grown and the value of electricity consumption has been struck every week. In addition to the fact that the transport system in its current form has been less than usual, there is insufficient use of energy. As a result, there is a situation that likely surprises many people, i.e. Electromagnetic deficiency. That was not necessarily ahead of time, but the news surprised many. The movement of the wheels is positive, but the prelude to severe energy shortages is an urgent problem to be solved. It is a pleasure to see the emphasis of the Treaty on ensuring sustainable Iceland through green energy production and green investments. I think we're all rowing in the same direction. Here's the big picture, meeting the needs of energy on the homes as well as on the economy. There we use our power of reason and practicality when taking each step. Let's get involved with nature. Fishery factories have, for example. reports from Land induction that it cannot give them pure electricity at the beginning of hairy manure. Thus, they are forced to switch to non-saturable energy sources, such as. oil. Such a situation is something we should not face as an Icelandic nation with all our renewable energy resources. A respectable president. Plenty of energy is needed for both household and professional life. Oil is not an optimal option. It's a step back, and no one wants it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u12	Mr. President. As mentioned earlier, the highest was taken. the local Environment Minister for Peace Overcomes the Earth Dragan just before he left office and didn't have time to report it, at least not officially. This, apparently, is done primarily in order to prevent the implementation of Whale Implementation, the enormously important projects for the West, and especially the groundwork of the Beaches. Hv. paritaprevir Orri Páll Jóhannsson seems to have had some disagreements about this subject because of the problem. A senator claims that there is some news that the officers of the society taking possession of this earth were in favor of the peace light. The same people have strongly opposed the fact that the plans for activation would be made because there is no news that the owners of the earth or the officers of this group, which were on the earth, rejoiced at the decision of the minister. But is it a good example that corporations can buy up land here and there in the country and ask for a minister that he, passing by the Council, would have peace so occasionally affect the settlements around and even the power structure of the country? That could hardly be a good example. And it can't be a good example for the General to get away with such a march without we formally taking it to the council, because if that is the case, it is the highest. A minister of this operation has not only damaged the plans for Avenging but, in fact, destroyed a frame plan as it does, all its previous stage and future debates about a frame plan, since then it is no longer important. Then it does not matter what the Council concludes. If the General believes that there is a right to use a specific method of activation, then a minister can simply intervene. And I guess that's the other way too.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u13	A respectable president. Today, it is not the time for the state to raise the budget and charge of a business in the land, some of which pacify biofuels. However, this government is now doing so with an increase in alcohol charge. The rise is more intense in the most efficient sector of government - control operations. It simply lacks a link between reality and government action. And that the right category of alcohol costs rise in these circumstances has some contrasting factors. There are, from what I hear, about 1,000 people in the restaurant sector. Places are faced with the need to close earlier. The public is moved to be careful, which produces more books than before in restaurants, and this is understandable, of course. It is not the same as it is in normal circumstances. V.E.G. A health minister said that when he extended his disease prevention procedures about two more weeks, he wanted to secure the protection for now. Next would be winning the ball and running. But it's hard for a company to win the ball and drive when companies are entering the third year of disease prevention and missing government resources. Instead, they receive Christmas celebrations of government taxation. They also live in a low sense of view, notes are presented every few weeks, and the prospect, the window, is never greater than that. Walking in the central city of Reykjavík today tells us a story about the situation. The chairs are standing on the table. The concern and activities of these companies have been limited for the most part during this period. Governments must be able to read and act on the situation. But what does the government's reaction to these companies involve? It's 3 billion bucks. increase in alcohol charge.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u14	A respectable president. It was not nice to see pictures in the days when mares were taken with blood. It was nothing more than a scary animal. Once again, Iceland's questions arise about careful surveillance. A food agency has itself referred to the council as its own supervision of this industry, saying that there is no conflict with law. The video tells us another story. This week we received confirmation that what has so far been called a negligible deportation in the ocean system was actually a significant evaporation. With reduced use, the use of fish living room has increased in terms of evaporation. 10 per year usually averages 120 or more per year. A fishing clinic, often severely criticized for careful surveillance, has brought us a different view of contact with the sea resources. At times, surveillance agencies are on their feet, for instance, when a Persian protection struck the fingers of a former ocean leader who tried to hide behind a personal protection law when the council was to be informed about an important matter. The director of the Contestant Commission has brought up the view that the government is out of control. It was almost as if part of the previous part of a well - written statement that the bank manager soon came to the bottom of the word that Iceland was largely controlled by special interest groups. I'm calling it here because the government ministers in their political career have spoken against active surveillance and, in fact, active surveillance. Tell them crazy about setting priorities for the surveillance industry, as it was called. There is much talk about maintaining control in the government covenant, but it would be too much, even dependent on saying that it was reflected in the budget. Bloodmers and evasion will prove to us that bitter and toothless surveillance agencies are of little value. However, the responsibility lies with those who rule the land.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u15	Mr. President. I'd like to use this opportunity to address the body of Congress and remind you of the difficult and twisted conditions of Western ears relating to transportation. Western islands are the only rural society in the country that has no connection with the continent and therefore needs to rely on sea and air transport. The situation is now that there is no planned flight to the Western Islands, and it has been since August of this year. Until the end of August of the last year, the airline arrived on market grounds in Ernar flight to the Western Islands, but due to a reduction in the number of tourists, including Because of Covid, they were broken. Last December, Iclanders resumed their flights with government support to begin with, but as previously said, the Society likewise stopped flight by the end of August. Is this especially difficult for the inhabitants of the Westlands today, where roads often fall into the islands of the winter and thus lower security. It's an unpleasant situation. This situation particularly addresss vulnerable groups; the elderly, the patients, and the children. Western ears are not asking for many flights a day. The population is asked to have two or three days a week for two flights a day. This year, 75 years have passed since the flight to Eyjan. As a result, in 2021, transportation to the island is still impaired, and one's attitude toward prominence is instinctively focused on 75 years ago. What would these people say now? I challenge the highest. The secretary of transport to go more closely to work and secure the inhabitants of the West Sea for transport first. It is impossible to let this happen to the inhabitants of the Western Islands.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u16	A respectable president. It's Christmas. And always as dear, says the beautiful Christmas song that we all know so well. But does Christmas mean that to everyone? I'm afraid not. I'm going to dedicate this brief moment here at the council all those who have been saying hello to me who have been sending me questions that have been asking for help. I'm sorry I can't help these people, I'm really sorry. But the government has promised that she will do something to pay a street and help, for example. Social Security. I am, for example. beyond all reason to understand why the growing jaws of this poorest group of people are seen in the country, why they are left at a garden once more. Last year, there was a simple tax and inadequacy that helped many of the family very much, and made Christmas as pleasant as possible, made it possible for them to have a good meal, even to buy Christmas and not let their children go to the Christmas Cat. It is now in the power of this government to continue to embrace our people. We'll make adjustments to raise funds and we'll ask for one payment for this poorest group of people. I believe that the government in all its goodness is going to let these people celebrate Christmas.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u17	A respectable president. The Treaty has a clear view of where this government wants to go in welfare, economic, and commercial matters. We follow a new course of health care that will mark our health system in the years to come. We are going to increase national access to expert services focusing on the payment of patients and vulnerable groups. We are continuing on a journey that began in the last term to promote mental health care for all groups of society, especially children and young people, and we are going to emphasize forethought of health care, not always in response. And we will continue to try to promote the mental - health teams throughout the country. We also continue on the process to develop a variety of farms and services so that older people can live at home for as long as they choose, focusing on a much greater variety of resources than they have been. We're also going to reevaluate the social security system of older citizens. We start with that, and it's the first step, to double the job income by next year. The same thing we'd like to do for disability, i.e. We want to improve their terms and start now by putting another 1% on the basic pension. But we also know that the system needs to be changed because we remove these bad income connections, we want to make it more efficient, more beneficial, and more just. We also want to continue to make housing security and a better post for tenants. We also want to support regional development and housing freedom of choice so that jobs in the State will not be local unless the nature of the work requires it in particular. Now in the budget, we deal with the first budget of this government, which has 170 billion dollars. tilt, but still we remain a protection for the welfare of the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u18	V.E.G. President. ▪ The minions baked, and Christmas preparations were completed by my half-prices; the master of the capital area wrote in an exchange on a community center this morning, hopefully in a joke. The VR union brings us to our attention these days on the third shift that is paid free and with great anger in the majority of homes around the year. She goes on to the other two; her first shifts, which are paid jobs outside the home, hardly have to be told about here that women's professional involvement in Iceland is the world's largest, and other shifts; homework, child rearing, family relations, family chores, family chores, family chores, family responsibilities. Women in Iceland are expected to do their chores for nine hours a week, men for seven. That's about where we're going. Two. Child rearing of their wives for about ten hours a week, questioned, men less than eight. There are, of course, differences that tell us nothing. The third shift, also known as the planning and emotional shift, is unsalaried and is about oversight and management of household chores. Her assignments are underappreciated, and perhaps they are considered to be their wives rather than men. It is far more important for women than for men, at least for men. in straight relationships. It comes with stress, takes the brain space, which prevents job participation, progress to work, and puts stress and stress into it. It is noteworthy that when asked, men claim to do household chores to a far greater degree than they actually do, and women say they do too much. Now I want this busy month to remind me of a third shift, who's taking care of it, who's paying for it, and how it affects women in a labour market in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u19	A respectable president. I'm just going to change my gear and talk about a big, big, small matter. We new senators were in the days assigned an e - mail so that ordinary citizens and others can communicate with us in a quick and simple manner. I have used e - mail contacts in my own life, and I have sent mail to e - mails on e - mails, such as the canal@althundi.is, and drugs@althundi.is.is or suppliers of@althundi.is. However, I was assigned the e - mail address e - mail address e - mail, longer than an average e - mail. When I wished for this change, I was told that some new financial committee would say that members of the Parliament and members of the council would be formed this way from now on. It is an important part of the democracy that the members of the nation's council are accessible. Senators are not employees of the management board who work anonymously in her name and should not have to put up with unnecessary efforts from the public. Senators are not members of the Parliament who are also required to be protected in their duties. Senators represent the people of the nation in the legislature of the nation. As a result, members of Congress are to be as accessible as possible to a more respected minimum character protection, which is also very limited to people in that position. The rule serves no purpose, and solves a problem that is nothing. It may be a small test of national independence, but it is a test stone. Therefore, I would like to propose to the president that the Allied Council does not have to subject itself to the unnecessary whims of the government, which face the most important aspect of democracy that its representatives at the General Assembly are as accessible as possible to the public.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u20	A respectable president. It is a joy to know that in a new government contract, a goal is to be set for the percentage of public jobs performed outside the capital area and that jobs in the State will be localized only if the work requires special attention. This aim is to support habitat development and freedom of choice. I know that many people enjoy the end of a life of great joy when they live in a place where people are comfortable. It is so much so again in the community that every structure builds people with differing knowledge and skills. It can be part of developing productive, mobile communities all over the country, so that the vegetation of industry can flourish at the side of new jobs. Special work and public work can indeed spread throughout the country. It does not matter how we approach the definition of local functions. It must be totally reversed from the longest possible time, starting with the definition of jobs that are in the most scattered communities and not vice versa, those which can use remote work to promote and strengthen a service that is normally normally distributed throughout the country. First, identify official jobs requiring the presence of employees in a designated location without the need for a full-time job. This can, for example, happen. .................................................................................................... There, technology offers countless opportunities to create desirable jobs where local service is part of the job and therefore secure, and the employee uses the job position to do more work. If handled properly, goals can lead to breakthroughs in public projects and development.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u21	A respectable president. There is a festival of light and peace ahead, but a large group of people in our community are anxious for the arrival of Christmas, people who live in poverty, people who live in desperate straits, who cannot give Christmas gifts to their children. To get in line after dinner is a difficult and difficult step, let alone with children at their side. It is the fate of single - parent families. Another group that is particularly difficult are those who are isolated from very poor, isolated in their homes, and no one is wondering how that group has it. They are isolated either because of phobia, they do not go out, or because Covid has made them unable to seek help. Another is that they do not know where to look for help. We are to make sure that everyone is good, not just chosen. If given correctly, the damages to social security would not be 240,000 dollars. within a month, they have been taxed by about 35,000 dollars. per month. If taxes were not available, they would be 275,000, which would immediately be better. If we were right and we were corrected, we'd be giving these people $350,000. The tax and decrepit today. In any case, it would be to the point that these people can live with dignity and not have to stand with their children in line for food.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u22	A respectable president. The news of the week has probably not been overlooked, since Land activation announced the need to reduce electricity supply to companies due to the lack of electricity and to limit transport capacity. Does this surprise us? No, a respectable president. This can't be surprising. The fact is that electricity security in many countries is lacking. Transport lines are resources that are in a great need for maintenance. It is part of a country that simply needs to connect with the continental population and enjoys reduced electricity security throughout the year. This condition causes discomfort to the general population and leads to the absence of employment opportunities because of the lack of electricity safety. Many sensitive equipment cannot tolerate power loss and cannot be provided for loss of employment. Two years ago, a storm broke through the country with the related damage to electricity transport lines, both the distribution and the transport systems of the Landsnet. As a result, governments went off with groups of talks about how to prevent such damage from reinitiating itself and finding the weakest links in the transport chain. The shock was triggered by efforts, refinements, and renovations. But those areas that do not live in a circle link still have the same insecurity. In 2009, a growing industrial minister appointed a team to evaluate ways to improve the electrical security of the West, and last year a report by a team of consultations made it possible to improve electrical safety on the West. Sadly, for the past decade, little has gone wrong. A respectable president. It should not be part of the result of discovery of the inadequacy of electrical energy systems in the country, such as the removal of Christmas Sheikhs and all bulbs and the removal of all shops. It must be checked and taken into account in real activation of the West, along with the speed of the maintenance and innovation of the transport system. If we do, we can trust electronic security all over the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u23	President. Since it's about the electrical security, I fell in here as a vice-conservatory during the season 2013-2016 and fell into a committee where the Landsnet was literally begging the council for a projection program so that it could build electrons. I remember one member of the council who was sitting next to me and looking at something else but a program for electronics, which I found very interesting and had an excellent effect on me about how I had to deal with something called respect for the General Assembly. But another: lack of transparency in this document, budget 2022. For both members of Congress and nation, and even members of a financial committee, this is a very inaccessible document. However, we senators on a financial committee can ask what others cannot do. Advisers know, e.g. Not really how the changes in the bill are suggested affect subjects they are interested in. NPA centre, e.g. was scratching over what was going on with them, which is exactly 300 billion. K. a donation to NAPA agreements, a temporary donation, and it takes 321 million to achieve the prices and so on. It is just to maintain the present number, that is not to fulfill the laws and agreements that have been made about this. In this bill, there's a lot of stuff about what's in a frame, to move some project like, e.g. women's health care within the framework. There's no idea how much this costs. That's not what we're told. I've been asking now for a financial committee to call for it from the Ministry, the people who have come and those who have already come to inform us about what this means, the frame to show us. We're agreeing to the budget. That's the button we're gonna push at the end of a discussion about budgets, yes or no on the budgets we need to know what they are.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u24	Mr. President. Here they have organized themselves into a public speaker, which seems to me to be half of the head of the council who made a noise under the council and spoke for the priming policy of independence classes and forwardees. One of the senators went so far as to say that we now experienced a serious shortage of energy. I think people only need to breathe in their abdomen. In Iceland, more energy is produced by an appeal than any other country, much more - much more, much more. What we're going through right now is a plane malfunctioning at the Burfs station. We're experiencing too poor transport systems because the management team has not come to terms with their structure, and we can see this through the fact that people or companies who receive the discount of electricity by buying less-than-efficient electricity have been reduced. Of course. It was the coin they wrote on. It is the moat that the hairy factories receive from land induction, that the electricity is less efficient, so that in such cases, land induction can turn it off. Yeah, and then, you know, land induction also turned off for electrical change, and it might just be permanent. This is only the smell of the prime year that went on full time for elections and was on its full scale in connection with the formation of government, and it clearly does not provide the end. During the last term, we saw a frame plan and the highland park woven into a pack of nasty things that led to both being killed, not by ourselves in the government position, but by the management forces. We saw a bill about the transport systems of electrical energy that was about to take the authority from the rural communities. When government officials realized the teratogenicity, they too were killed, by them, not us. Mr. President. The groups responsible for the Meriad Reservation are in the government and are clearly still at the same hay-horn. [[The president calls.]] It should be noted that the delivery security of electricity is no worse in the country than in the area of Merians. [[The president calls.]] Iceland's largest and most failures in energy are surrounded by farms where people cannot rely on secure electricity. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u25	Mr. President. Seafood, fishing, and fishing have been much of the most important sectors and have kept our country inhabited. In recent years, innovations and advances in technology have changed the article and have increased the value of new products, products, and products of sledge, red, and fish bones that once had little value and were thrown back into the sea. What, then, is wrong? Why does the article not satisfy you? Why does the pursuit of our resources lead to long - term distrust and conflict? I believe, Mr. President, these are the main reasons: the Good News and the distribution of quotas is a closed system. New recruits are almost impossible, and the food is difficult and stays within families or gathers in few hands. The big things grind gold, get too powerful in the community, and stretch their arms too far in the business world through investments outside the article. A fine overview of this is the one published last November in the hour. The fees paid to use the national resources are far too low. The nation does not get a righteous share in the money, and the control of the fishing resources is too weak. Fish lab sources are not sufficient, and laws are blurred and defective. Equality is lacking between those who trust in fish markets in order to buy fish for their work and those who work both fishing and processing. All too small a catch that goes into a fish market, and sailors see foreign production selling their goods at a higher price than they do in Icelandic. Sufficiency has been widely informed when it is estimated that bosentan in men is inconsistencies with port range and there is an inconsistencies between regnition in processing stations and weight loss at port level. The reargument that lies in the hands of the self-designed process leads to a decision, including a seaman's share and reward. Then home-wielding is an inaccurate map level. To determine how much of the resource they use, whether by renovation or by homeweight, a developer is entrusted with the trust. The technology that is already on board the boats and ships and in the processing stations and provides detailed information on the amount and weight of income is not new to monitor. Breakout's a lot. Small boats have been mainly kept in check, but they are also heavily ousted, even though they are not so visible. After the use of the fishing lab, it becomes evident that the volume is far more than previously thought. The numerator reported it in the days. The government has to stand up and deal with these flaws. The entire environment is largely developed in favor of people who are both fishing and processing at the expense of others. It has been pointed out that too strong the authority of a few people over fishing the resources is a source of greater power toward them in society, but healthy people can be considered to be too strong against governments and the media, their power, and their impact on decisions in the government system and on the political field can be anti-polices. President. Encouraging prevents competition and inhibits the necessary renewal. Biodiversity between rural areas can damage rural society and dislocation between deforestation groups can lead to lower deforestation. In recent decades there has been a large convergence in the fishing industry. Ten of the largest types are covered by more than half of the quatans, and 20 of the largest types have more than 70% of quatane. Added to this is the possession of these developers in other preparations. A large rural business in this country is, in fact, jointly fired, meeting with fishing, processing, and selling products. The resources of the fishing resource have run close to complete in the pocket of commercial developers. A pasta that should flow into a treasure and a sweat Fund, and from there to all the children and welfare systems, flows into the pockets of the builders and from there directly to their children. The curse of the resource is a well - known term for economics. Depravity is an evil that can often be a catch of quick gain that can be created by rich natural resources. Iceland has abundant sea resources, and this curse is like Namibia and other countries rich in resources. Many countries in the same situation are dealing with the very curse of the corruption of resources. In this country, it appears mainly in the large productions of money from politicians and government parties in an effort to secure the interests of themselves, as well as from what they keep out a newspaper that speaks their own language. The wealth has been gathering in few hands, and some of the unnatural powers of large - scale fishing are being reported in the community. Such a situation is not in the interests of the common people. A severe case is a search for one of our best research journalists, Helgi Seljan, when he worked on Kicken's bulletin of the Samherja papers. Samherji attacked the editor of the news editor with a propaganda that the company spread across the Internet. The company used a lot of money and a strong position to show the rest of us that it does not pay to criticize the owners because they have positions and resources to silence us. President. Though much has been done well in this country, there is still a need for a share. They lack justice and the assurance that all society will benefit sufficiently from the resource use. Resource is sustainable over time if it leads to a equilibrium between three factors, environmental effects, economic effects, and social effects. We've already taken two steps of these three in the management of fishing. The code system was put on for environmental reasons, to protect crops, and this was an effective step from the perspective of environmental effects. This, however, resulted in discrimination between generations of new and older builders and inhibition of recent recruitment. A few years later, because of economic conditions, exposition was granted, and this has resulted in practicality in the article. That action, however, has had a negative social impact. At the sale of quotas, it is possible to pull a single supersonic rock away from whole communities, as the examples prove. The population in the coastal areas has carried the cost of management, but the profit has come largely to a private person. The question that we politicians must answer is, How can we achieve all three aspects of sustainable development in the use of the marine resource? We from the United States, Iceland's leprechaun party, have been speaking for auctions on labour markets. That action on its own brings a more righteous object to the resource industry and makes it possible for new ones to be involved in the article. It leans heavily on us, the owners of the resource, and it will not be at peace with the system during that time. In order to make peace with the way fishing costs are determined and to ensure that the resource is not distributed on subservation, it is aimed at using the market to determine the price. There will be more distances within the system with offered markets that will provide the most available opportunities for the companies to be old or new. In the export of exports, it is easy to take into account localities, prevent compression, and respect my specific eutrophication. It is important to take slow paces in time, and if handled properly, the offer will be adjusted by the quality of injustice, which means that the benefits of the efficiency within the output fall into the pockets of a few, while the inhabitants of the sea may have the cost. I think it is proper to remind you, when it comes to having a dinner party, and when workers object to the operation that a private eating out of a fishing road has been allowed here in the country for decades. The complaint is sold to the highest bidder, and the price is sadly sky high, usually well over the value of a piece of cod. The main reason is a great demand, a small supply, and the price of a so - called earthly meal. The ransom price on this market runs into the pockets of the eaters, not to the people. If we make that offer, it is likely that the fresh ones and the rarest settlements could receive the salaan for a far lower and more just price than at present, and the results will flow to the nation. By getting more involved in the economy, e.g. Through a national application schedule, we could strengthen their facility for building up the locals' intelligence. An invitation guarantees the full price of the marine resource. It would no longer be necessary for builders to rely on politicians to determine a fishing fee that pleases them. In this way, we will be able to achieve the needed peace of mind over fishing. The people in the country would be able to benefit from the resource for building in their communities and for the general well-being. It is a matter of fairness that the people of the country will be allowed to enjoy the interest of their resources in fishing resources and that they will get full price for fishing. President. The bill I recommend is not about tenders. It is about what needs to be clear and tied in the law to define the linked person and work against the collection of the resource's resources on few hands. This needs to be taken, whether or not the decision is made to go out of the way. Indistinguishability in related sources in the fish management legislation has resulted in a lack of trust in the Fishing Room to work on the law to determine whether the individual persons will take over 12% of the assigned legislatures. The bill suggests changes to fish control laws, No. 116, from 2006, the law says that what is included in the terms related to parties and real authority will be further defined. The bill aims to implement the Commission's proposal for improving the control of the fish resources produced by the Management Board for marine and agricultural development on December 30, 2019. Topical management included ..."to respond to the information provided in the European Commission for review of the Marine Monitoring Agency, which is responsible for the compression of the Agency's resources. The first commander of the bill had a seat in the control group, the one it says here. Following the report, the ocean - out road and agricultural minister published a bill based on its findings in the government's consultations. The bill we're discussing here is based on the main lines of communication. However, some reductions are eliminated, as there is an inconsistencies between them and the results of the task management. These are proposed to be in line with my warning on the task management report. 13th. a law on the control of fishing is about the maximum collection of fish vessels owned by individuals, persons or lawyers, or owned by linked parties. Since the first legalization of the maximum power departments in the financial sectors has been convened, and now ten of the largest power companies in the country have had more than half as much as I told earlier. At the same time, marine sources have declined rapidly. The fishing season, which had decreased to 382 in 2019, was 946 at the beginning of the fishing year. I don't look up, Mr President, what the situation is now, but I don't suppose they've increased much since two years ago. The definition of the term 'authority-related persons' shows that members are linked directly or indirectly to a higher proportion of capital or stock of the other person or have a greater proportion of voting rights. Thus, one party will be able to take the maximum license of the labor sector according to Article 1. 13th Article 5 of the Treaty, which is a total of 12% of its assigned receipts, additionally up to 49.9% share in other enterprises which have share under law. It is evident that such ownership is contrary to the laws' aims as well as to which the definition is inconsistent with the definition of real owners under the law on the control of money theft and terrorist funding, No. 140/2018, and the registration of real owners No. 82/209 approved here by current administration groups and, in fact, more. If I recall correctly, there was good agreement on these laws, which were accepted two or three years ago and a reason to consider in this context. According to this law, there is a real owner who actually owns or operates a law by direct or indirect ownership that more than 25% of a legal entity, has more than 25% of the voting rights or is considered to have authority over the legislators. The difference between the definition of property connections by the fish management law, the money collections, the funding of terrorism, and the law on the real owners is shaken, and a party can be considered to be the real owner of a law without being considered a member of a fish control body. The Commission's proposal to improve the control of fish resources is to suggest a change in the definition of the terms of the terms'species' and'real control' in order to achieve more effective monitoring of the rules of maximum resources departments. A report by the People's Research on Fish Control reports that, despite evidence of such links as to actual authority, fishing management was not easy to find. Set up the task management board to include the definition of linked parties to couples, partners and their children, and a certain administrative relationship between enterprises would lead to the inclusion of enterprises, unless it is proven to be the opposite. In addition, the task force suggested that what would be defined as a real government, and that people who were employing more than 6% of the labor department or 2.5% of the hook sector should be informed to report to the Marine Office a planned fusion, to buy a partner who was in charge of a stock department or to buy a share. The Fish Office agreed to accept such a provision would be a prerequisite for fusion or to buy a partner or share in it, and it would not be implemented until it had been approved by the Fishing Room. President. To the transporters of the bill I recommend here suggest a change in the definition of the term '-related persons' in the Law on Fish Control. For section 1. 4 mg. 13th par. The current legislation requires that persons be linked as one party, an individual or the attorney, on a direct or indirectly more part of the stock or stock of the other person, or has a share of the voting rights. It is suggested that the party be considered related to the other party with at least Twenty-five percent of the stock, stock or voting rights in the others, in accordance with the budgetary and terrorist funding laws, no. 140/018, and registration of real owners, No. 82/2019. As a result, it is assumed that a person would be a real owner of someone else, they are considered to be ◯ related members in the sense of the law. Second, it is suggested that linked contacts be designated as lawmakers who are governed by the same individuals as married couples, partners, children, and foster children as well as their legal bodies. Third, a more detailed definition of what constitutes a real government is laid down in the current laws on the control of fish fish. Is it suggested that the real authority refers to a right created by treaties or by some means that enables the person to exert a decisive influence on a community, property, or right to use social, or partial property, or to have the right to exert a major influence on the composition, votes, or decisions of an institution's society. Finally, the treatment of fish rooms should be given when the combined source of resources from individual sources and linked parties exceed 6% of the total value of all species that are restricted to the permitted total resources. In such cases, as mentioned earlier, to report to Fish Room every provision that leads to an increase in financial division before such legislation takes place. It is suggested that the legislation be accepted on June 1, 2022, but those who go beyond a allowable collection department under the bill will be granted a delay to the end of the fishing year 2024◯2025 to take the necessary measures to settle within legal limits. President. I have now considered the subject of the bill. But now some ask, why do I and my partners on this bill feel that financial companies should be viewed as a law and adjusted for real owners rather than a competitive song according to the definitions of linked enterprises or traditional guidelines? This is because if a seaside company is connected to other companies in this article, so that the definition of the real owners of an enterprise involves that relationship or that there is a clear family connection, circumstances in which financial problems between a company can have consequences for others and in the community all. In the case of seafood companies using the nation's resources, care must be taken to ensure that such a relationship does not have a negative social impact. The bill is intended to work against a fishing eco-efficiency as well as to reduce the financial risk of society by storing up resources in few hands, and the linking between the real owners of an enterprise is such that failure of one or the financial problems affects another's position. In addition, it is important to clarify the legalities as soon as possible so that the fish lab can fulfill its legal role. Information about the real owners is public, so it is available to monitor who are involved and who are not and who are also available to the public. Thus, the general public can monitor the actual owners of an enterprise as the capital of the nation's resources. Finally, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The job committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u26	Madam President. I thank the senator for his story and for putting the matter into practice. We discussed this relationship during the last term, and it is obvious that there is a need to correct it. Hv. One senator noted that this is the idea of implementing the Commission's proposal for improving the control of the fish resources returned to 2019 - I don't think it's the only comparable committee. A government official has been in charge of this committee in recent years. I'd like to ask about one of the government's co-work forms, which is about appointing a committee to map out the challenges and opportunities in the marine areas and related branches and to assess the national benefits of the fishing system. Do we need a lot more committees? Is that not a rather careful look? Is it not necessary to take a political stand here in the hall based on available information? I think there's quite a difference between classes. People know it from the 2019 project and all the other committees that years ago brought something back or got involved in an empty argument over conflict lines that we all know. I'm trying to figure out how much we make up for another government commission.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u27	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the question. Committees may be useful, but I don't think there's any need to set up yet another feature on the big movie in the fishing road. The proposals the project management gave to 2019 are not just about compression. They're about weighing on port range and rewinding and home-wage. They're about outcasts and out-of-house surveillance. They're the sources of the Fish Room for fines, etc. They're all about anything I think we can get along with in this room if we were to isolate ourselves into it. I hope such a bill comes forward, but in addition to that, we need to consider the compression that we face and the fact that we're there with a company that I'm going to let me tell you that I'm going to get the resource for what we've got and have just become too big for our economy and that we're stretching their scents way too many. I was disappointed when I took care of the committee and the seabeds, thinking exactly what was happening. Senator: Is this another committee? Don't we really know what the land is like? When it comes to making peace with our resources, I allow myself to ask, " What will be settled, and who will be satisfied? ' It's obvious that we don't like the nation, that we're being examined. Is it not necessary to make a covenant with the nation but not forever to give in to the great work that has been done for the past few years?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u28	Madam President. Sometimes this requirement for endless peace, such as a showdown, may not really be searching for some final conclusion, but it may work to push the problem ahead so that the solution may later or may never be found. I think of this because of what the council received in a rather thin report, at the request of Katrín Friðriksson, for the possession of 20 of the largest Icelandic industry. It was not all that should have appeared, but it became clear. The fact that the fishing power is over the last few years had an investment in the offline sectors of employment makes you wonder whether the long - term money that people gain from our common resource can be used to pay too little money for the nation, to make the market independent of the fishing work within a few years. If the investments observed in the financial and economic secretary's report on ownership of the 20 largest companies - if they continue, it will not be long before they no longer need the development to make a bottomless income. Then you may start changing the system because they will not become the same interests. I wondered, " Is putting another committee in a government contract a potential part of the puzzles needed to put these wealth ahead of wind? '
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u29	Madam President. I don't know if this was so outcasted from the view of the developers, but they certainly had spokesmen among the government. Hopefully, we'll see a change with a new marine dignitary and agricultural minister... who discussed years ago differently about the nation's marine and resource resources... than the members of the Independence Party. But the afternoon issue of November showed this in such a clear way, and I responded. Senators who are considering these items to read the hour when the journalist will agree and distinguish these smells that leave the fishing industry into other sectors of the country. Of course, it is true that through that company, the preparations can, of course, be used in an even more practical way. It is a spider web that truly encourages greater wealth in few hands. Even if it is only that way, we should take a good look at the legal environment. We don't need another committee to do that. We can make so many good changes that are already well - supported and explained in reports mentioned. It may be helpful to consult a new marine eco-efficiency minister to read those reports and then consider what is lacking.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u30	A respectable president. I was not sure if I should make a reply or give a talk, and I just picked a talk. I want to thank you. A senator for the bill, and I would very much have liked to be with an importer, but there wasn't time to think about it enough, so much to do when you're a new senator. To me, this bill is no political bill, it's just a professional bill. We've got 13. the management of fish that claim to be the quota roof, that the legislator must not have a certain percentage of the total resources of certain species; there must not be a specific roof, a specific percentage. The identity of the individual must be defined as "the real owner. " A person can't have goodbyes, cross the receipt by law or through other routes than the individual. I just hope it's approved and it's over, it's not complicated. I hope everyone understands. I have a certain knowledge of this matter. I was working at the FAFF and 2007, hired there in mid - June or July, and only immediately after the weekend, I went to Paris to a meeting of the Faniciical Action Taxi Force, which makes all the rules about money junk, that's where it all comes from. There are now great demands there, especially after September 11, when terrorist funding was introduced. There's a real owner of a key subject, in English below. If banks don't have it right, they don't know who their clients are. It's as simple as that. I'm just a little surprised that we're dealing with this now in this important legislation in Iceland, that we don't have this completely clear in this important law. We know all this bix around the collapse, it goes to the Caribbean, into Tortula, and all that. If you're going to cheat on taxes or get money from them, you're trying to cheat the concept on a real owner. You create a series of companies, and then the question is, Whose is it? In Tortula, companies and lawyers can sit on board and stuff like that, I don't have to go into it. I think it's absolutely basic to these legislations and 13. Then the question is, Do we want to see 13. is it active or not? That's what it's all about, and that's it. If there's some disagreement on this, I'd love to. Senators would just come in and say they're opposed to this legislation. Then I'll ask you on the way, what are we doing with this 13. par.? If it is to be effective, this must be clear. It must be totally defined as the actual owner, i.e. under the law on money fraud and financial law. Why is this there? It is because financial institutions need to know who the money owner is and who to lend. It is the value of the bank, that is, the knowledge of the client. The same is true of real authority and relations. I can read here from the bill, with the permission of a president: a lion, a roommate, their children, and their foster children, and their legal agencies. It's a two-part team, I mean, married people, I hope so. I'm not gonna keep it this far, but I'm gonna support the bill with my whole mind and I can't believe it's going to be accepted, it's actually going to make this law work. I don't think it's political. We can have our opinion on the quota system, but this is legislation, 13. Gr., and if people are against 13. it is very good to have a vague concept of the real owner and who are linked to members and what is real authority. It's the best you can do, it's got the law, and then it's all very vague. It's blue. They're playing with 13. if these definitions are not completely crystal clear. That's what they're doing. The question is, should we allow it to remain that way? I'm not saying it's being done today, but this is a question of how the law works.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u31	A respectable president. We here discuss a bill to correct a change in fish control laws, related bodies, and real authority. I'd like to thank a producer, Oddný new G. Harðardóttir, for the passage she went on before she went on the bill. There's a lot of interesting things in there that I wrote down here, and that's why I'm coming up here. She spoke about the export of fresh fish and evasion and other items, which, of course, are a serious matter. So it was that the last employment committee, led by Lilja Rafney Island of Magnúsdóttir, went very thoroughly over these matters or for almost three years during the last term, was delayed by Covid, actually. But it was taken very deep into the situation regarding the export of fresh fish and, indeed, some of it was actually the owners. This issue of exporting fresh fish is an enormous question of employment for us Icelanders and in the coastal areas. There are ten companies here who have stopped working because of exporting fresh fish. It is careful to estimate that approximately 500 jobs are exported. I can't exactly remember whether these are 60,000 tons of fish exported each year, which is a natural huge quantity, and which work in the continent of Europe, where even Iceland has fish products or fish farming. In the European Union, companies live with it, e.g. If you start a fishing business in Poland and it takes billions of dollars to build up your company, you will have 80% stock costs paid back, or 800 million. It is a natural tremendous competitive advantage, as well as what it is allowed in the European Union, to shop with employees who have wages that are so far away from what is available in Iceland. Remuneration in Poland is for example Just one third of the minimum wage is in Iceland, let alone when you have your employee's rent. So when they're competing for it in the fishing markets here, Iceland's fish workers are competing with Poland's fish workers, then the situation is extremely rough. In this work, led by Lilja Rafney Islands Magnúsdóttir, these items were exceedingly well covered, and a good report was made to the council and to the committee and minister on the issues that are very important for us to continue our discussion, so I was glad that a prominent speaker brought them up. In the years, I felt that it was a bit deep that almost claimed a massive evaporation. It's just that no matter how much or little the reaction is, it's always too much. Flirting on fish is always too much, so that's the way it is. [[Up front.]] Of course, there has always been some eviction, which for various reasons is understandable. True, what is going on in that matter must be handled, but it is inexpensive to blame such a government. Of course, we need to appeal to the sailors ourselves. They are those who are responsible for the fish they draw aboard, and they are those who are responsible for getting him ashore, and we are to trust in them, and they are to be worthy of their trust. There is no large group that heals on the outcasts, or any detestable thing, or corruption in the fishing grounds. I feel that talking about corruption in a job life in Iceland - I'm just a long way away from it. I think there's a lot of better things to go on than calling something depravity in the workplace and on sea and fishing, and I feel that it's a long way to go. It's way too far out for my taste. Because I'm not going to give a long talk, I'm also going to enter the point of compression. I agree with a storyteller that it could well be, and maybe it's true that the compression from the fact that we've put our quota into 1980 is too far gone. But I just want to draw attention to who were approved here by the free halls of fish. There were all classes other than the Independence Party, the only opposing group at the time. Let's just say it right to our fathers. Of course, this does not change today, but let us keep it in place in this discussion. It's very important that we keep talking about it. The support was very necessary at that time. It was almost all formed in the country about 1970,980 on the head, so much of it was taken into this saying, and to protect the fish stocks. It was extremely important. Maybe that's gone too far. I'm not going to discuss open-up on resources that an executive came in a little bit, but I'm going to draw attention to the fact that the best running companies would get the most of the space, and then I think we're not in a better place, if the companies that have the most money and earn most of the money, they can buy most of the resources. I don't think that's what we're supposed to be after. We'd rather find out. For renting goodbyes and so on, I'll agree with a lot of things a supervisor said about renting a bid. That's about it. 20,000 tons rented each year are rented at 200 and 300 cents. The kilogram, which no one understands naturally, is unable to run by renting a quota at 300 k. the kilogram. It's just that way. I'd like to talk about someone in the audience at the end of the session. Right away. Of course, the main concern of the big party, which is almost there in the quota, is the head of the company. When large furweats were released, about 600,000 tons, the forms that were so on the edge went up to 12%, above the property roof for natural reasons. Of course, we need to have some room for such things because next year there may not be 600,000 tons available. It may well be 0. We know that, don't we? Last year, 120,000 tons were caught, two years before 0. So it is not on the basis of calmness of hair, and the rules must be flexible that nature does not encourage expeditation to sell away resources, because it is also affecting the people who work in the country, the people who work for the companies who have been well prepared to carry out more intensive work and have a lot of good workers at work. I'd like to point that out and see if it's okay. An executive does not want to see if it would be appropriate to develop an income share, e.g. above any percentage, it could be 6◯8%, must automatically register at the Sale Hall. There is much more information involved in these enterprises, and then property is less important to all, because everyone can buy in them and they're just on the market. The information board that the Stock Palace requires would inform us during the council and the community much more. I've seen in my discussion that the companies who are registered at the Stock Hall, the people who are most concerned with the salatan in the magazines I've just quoted, give the best information about their business, what's going on, and they can't hide anything. I think it would be a good idea for us to discuss at the council taking the biggest companies into the Stock Hall to increase the information flow to the rest of us. We would also be less concerned about who would do what because all of them could buy in those companies on a free market. I like that fishing grounds come up in the conference hall. We need to talk about it. I just don't like hearing it all the time, and I heard it in an excellent tone of prayer. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson was there earlier, not to like it. I can hear it on both sides. I feel that we senators cannot give up in making peace. I've always held it up, and I'm going to say it here from the chair of the Generals once more that the only thing that can create peace for someone, and especially for the development, is there to be any peace in these matters. It's far better for a nation to have to give something to do with what we're arguing here at the council than to be constantly between our teeth and the people of the country. Of course, we need to make peace, and this requires that we go beyond what is being done today. I totally agree with that. It contains, for example, renting on the quotas and how we charge our hunting fees. I've felt that hunting costs should be taken at a regular price per kilogram, absolutely. Then you can just calculate the cost of fishing while the boat is on its way to shore, instead of taking it off the balance sheet. I know it was the wish of the project, and many feel it's much easier. I know it's easier, but it's not visible, and the people in the country want visible hunting fees, not the year after, and not three years later, but the day of the boat. It's very easy, and it's the simplest system.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u32	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech. It may surprise me a little bit that I and I were. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson can agree on several things in which to fish the resource. Perhaps there is evidence that we have not had much discussions about these matters. Hv. A senator here speaks of uncivilized fish, and I agree with him that it has been painful to look up in the fishing industry that needs to be trusted in the market to get the raw materials to work out, for too many fish farms in our districts have had to stop and close because they have failed to compete with larger people who buy and take them out of the country. The question is, What can we do? Once, there was a price, a special export fee for those who sold unmanned fish from the country. Got it. A senator says we should do something like that? Or might it also be possible that through this process a precipitating project would be mandatory to include at least 1 percent of the bills given to them in the fish market each time? There would be more fish in the fish market, but it would obviously have to be careful that large foreign people or Icelandic groups with foreign fish do not clean up all the fish markets.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u33	Madam President. I appreciate the answer and the inquiry. It's hard to keep. It is easy to come up here and invent ideas, but it is often harder to say how to do them. Hv. A senator and an executive mentioned that this was a pressure on export. That's how it was, up to 25% at cod in its time. I just remind myself that the European Union puts considerable tolls on imported fish from Iceland, macroil e.g., long and other species. We have requested that it be canceled, but the European Union has not seen it. There are a lot of companies that put fish in the market. There is, of course, one way to say that a person who owns his own country puts extra resources into the market, perhaps by increasing the export. We need to find ways to make our resource all of us, and we're working on it here at home, and our people will have the opportunity to win it, that we'll have the worth of the fish. I'm just doing everything in there, worth the amount of what's in the country, whether it's electricity or fish or whatever it is, will stay here at home. I may not be prepared to suggest how we should do this, but I think we should go to this work together and find the way to do this, to increase the value in our home, and to increase our jobs. It's not just our district, South-City, I'm thinking that most of the fish harvests that closed because of this condition were in the capital area and on the Snæfellsnes, large and elegant fish, which were at the head of state when we began to transport fresh fish by flight.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u34	Madam President. Yeah, I just mentioned the South Pillar because we were what we were. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson is both council members of the South Sea District, but, of course, this is going to happen all over the country. Hv. In his talk, a senator spoke of his concern about corruption and somehow he could not see it. Besides, I didn't say she was a weed-up here. However, I pointed out that there are cases around the world that there is a danger of corruption over peoples rich in resources, and there are many examples of this. An example most of us know is Nairobi and Samherji. We're connected there, unfortunately, to that unfortunate matter. Of course, we here at the General Assembly need to make sure that there is no danger of corruption because we are protected and protected by the law of the public. Hv. A senator spoke of peace, it would be so important to make peace. The gang watched and watched all these reconciliation committees and reconciliations around the seabed, I'll just say it here, and I think that making it will never give up the interest, the selfish gain, without a fight. They have certain benefits, get to exploit our resources, and make rich money, and will not let it become a problem - free struggle. And when you're up to 12% of your assigned quotas - you don't need just eight makings, the whole thing's gone under these big-ass munchies. [[The president calls.]] Is it not all right, then, if someone crosses the goal, no matter how many years, that he sells them away that year? [[The president calls.]] I'm not worried about that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u35	A respectable president. I prefer to answer this in a way that says that it's very important when we're talking about our professional life, whether it's a fishing road or whatever else, that we do it with great respect. The marine road is a industry developing at a rate of 4 billion in export prices and in the shelter of the ocean exports, creating one of the largest innovations in Iceland just since the country was built and here are great corporations that produce fish farming machines and equipment and have come around the world. In the Faeroe Islands and in many parts of the world, there are fish farms and slaughterhouses equipped with modern technology and skill. So let's talk this out of respect, and I think we can quite get into this together if we do. I don't know much about this Namibian case other than what's been in the papers, but I haven't seen anyone convicted. And that's what, of course, matters to us if some Icelanders have done some bad things there, then courts have to deal with it, and that's just the natural way. I really believe that these matters will all be taken care of there. I know no one who doesn't, no one. Just that the right thing should be revealed. But I welcome this discussion of fishing, and I'm ready to continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u36	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize animal welfare laws, No. 55/2013, blood glucose maintenance restrictions. With me on the bill is the whole party of Flock's people, who are now really big and powerful; Álldur Ásthildur Þórsdóttir, Eyjólfur the son of Ármannsson, Guðmundur In Kristinsson, Jakob Frímann Magnússon and Tómas A. Tómasson. Also with us are the two representatives from the left movement ◯ green supply, Jódís Skúladóttir and Orri Páll Jóhannsson. I thank these good people for supporting this good and useful affair. The bill says in 1 Corinthians. ... withauthority of the President's permission: ▪ After 2 mgr. 20. The law comes a new paragraph, as follows: It is forbidden to take blood from pregnant mares in order to sell it or to process the hormone PMSG (Punnt Mare Serum Gonadotropin) or any other product for sale. A respectable president. I know, naturally, the matter is Icelandic, but the acronym PMSG stands for The Closet Mare Serum Gonadotropin. I may not necessarily go to the letters and the law articles myself, I'm going to go to the paper with the bill. I've recommended this case before, and now I'm doing it in a changed form. It was in the 151th legislature, 543, but it did not work out. I now propose it with a slightly altered format. Laws on animal welfare aim to promote their well - being, that they are free - and now listen carefully to what is stated in the law on animal success with regard to who might come here as their stakeholders who defend this animal - they are free of feelings of distress, and that they are free of fear, free of suffering, free of pain, injury, or illness. All of this is done in view of the design of animals. Furthermore, it is the purpose of the law that animals can display their normal behavior as best they can. In the United States, bloodletting from pregnant mares is designed to extract the hormone PMSG, which is sold for biological purposes to produce fertility drugs, mainly for pigs. In other words, so that we can eat more pork, produce more pork by putting hormones in the gilts and thus confuse only that life chain along the way. We are injecting this growth hormone from the mares for eight weeks at a time, once a week, a hormone produced in the marsh to develop the foal it carries. Today, there are 119 farmers in Iceland, with 5,83 bloodmers and some of the country's blood supply has increased recently. Vampires are passed on to the foal as often as possible to maximise the production of each mares, until the hormone is no longer found in its blood, then they are probably old and tired of all this, that there is nothing more to do than slaughter them. The sheep are usually slaughtered, as is true of the case. In the United States, the hormone PMSG is being removed from the hormone with varying degrees and failure. This is clearly seen in the documentary Iceland of 5,5000 hares, which was premiered on November 22, 2021, with a strong reaction and intense anger worldwide. The film discusses haematopoietic practices in Iceland that clearly reveal the poor treatment, abuse, and animal abuse that the mares face. The film gives reasons for such harsh conditions to be expected to prevail in general with the blood harvest in this country. What, then, would be the reason that such harshness can be realized in the general sense? This is because it needs to be done. These are wild animals, wild mares, untamed mares. How can they be squeezed into this fence that needs to be drawn into to pump from that blood differently than any forced mechanism? How can anyone come along and say that it's okay to do this humanally when it is known that the mare's head needs to be tied up, forced up their heads to get the vein in their neck to pump out these five litres of blood that is done once a week for eight weeks each year? What a shock it is if anyone thinks that he is not suffering, that the animal is terrified of fear and fear and distress, that this animal is breaking the animal's protection law down in front of everyone who wants to see it! This goes far beyond the European Parliament's challenge for both the European Commission and the Member States to stop the import and production of PMSG. The challenge for EU Member States is, in fact, directed to Iceland. We are, of course, members of the EEA Convention on the European Economic Area. If the Commission takes action to implement the European Parliament's decree, which includes the prohibition of blood flow in Europe, it is clear that this prohibition will reach Iceland on the basis of the EEA Convention. Iceland is probably the only manufacturer in Europe. I don't know why I'm probably saying that. Yes, because this blood glucose industry has also been practiced in Germany. While there is no prohibition on blood flow, it has been observed that farmers who have practiced this trade have not only decreased, but they have left, and I have been told, based on information about them, have not personally visited German farmers to check and check it out better, but according to the information of the animal traffic organization that I have been in contact with, the last bloodbath in Germany during the past year. So the rest of us will be left alone in Europe if this proves to be true. In fact, it is surprising that such activity is tolerated in this country, and it is as vast as it really is. Its scope is pure. I'd like to guess in the process that now Icezak's company has applied to triple the activities, applying to pump 600,000 gallons of blood every year from these drunken mares. If you figure this out so perfectly and add two and two together, it's not about over 5,000 mares to work but about 15,000. So many of them have to be in order to obtain 600,000 gallons [600,000 L] of blood. For what? In order to eat more pork and so that some few people can collect more wealth with their eyes red. I'd like to mention that an Iceland lab that has been spending billions of dollars over the last few years in order to introduce our country and nation in a foreign field, to attract foreign tourists and to show the beautiful face of our country, has been in a special market campaign to introduce the Icelandic horse, introduce our most needed and most devoted servant in recent years, in foreign lands. The campaign is that the Icelandic horse will be known worldwide as the horse with good moods, the one bringing people closer to nature. The aim of the campaign is to increase the value created on the Icelandic horse, to strengthen its image in the awareness of people around the world, and to market the logo of Horses of Iceland. In the past three years, a new Iceland record has been hit in the export and sale of the Icelandic horse, so that the huge marketing campaign in Iceland has yielded a tremendous amount of fine and positive results. In the third year of the year, Iceland's record was sold on the Icelandic horse. I'd also like to point out that thousands of Icelandic horsemen have contacted and supported the prohibition of blood circulation. The national relationship of horsemen, the National Union of Tattingers - all riders who love their horse, about the Icelandic horse, condemn this trade. They simply condemn it. The appearance that we are creating in foreign lands will cause us irreparably harm if we do not try to handle this now and show responsibilities and turn away from the error we have been in. It seems that most people in the community have not really imagined how untasteful and disgusting this industry is. Clearly, the current right of justice is far from protecting millions of people from the violence and haematological treatments. We transporters feel that there is no question about the fact that the legislatator must act, and it immediately and completely forbids this practice. We also recommend a violation of the ban on punishment at the time. 1.mg. 45. g. It is also suggested that 6 mg. 45. ... whosays that violations against the welfare of animals will only be investigated by police after the release of the beloved Food Agency. It must be natural to hear the exception that such a thing should enter the legislation, that a single institution that has been rather misinvolved in its activities, I want to say, is in her only power to sue animals or to harm animals. Why on earth should I not be allowed to report ill - treatment of an animal to the police if I witness it? Why would I have to call MAST? I can't get it. So this was an essential part of the bill. I'd like to point out that just before noon, I've got a call from Iseka, the biotechnology firm, who claims to be canceling deals with farmers right now because of the conflicting treatment of horses. That's interesting. This is noteworthy, since its president is now one of those who are seen in the image of the beast, who has gone like a fire in the inhabited earth, trying to direct those coming from the scene. In fact, there is reason to point out that Ísteka speaks of this as being an adverse treatment of horses and, by permission of a president, I'm going to quote this mail directly: This treatment clearly violates the company's well-being contracts and farmers. So we'll agree with them. In 2021, the biotechnology firm Isek has cooperated with 119 farmers on the blood transfusions of mares for pharmaceutical production. - I'd like to add that this drug production is a conversationed hormone to increase the production of pork. --Valuation agreements are both business contracts and special welfare agreements with all of them. Blood transfusion is the only source in Iceland where such contracts are a rule. Experience shows that farmers work in general according to them. All blood transfusions are being performed by animal doctors and the activities are under observation... This is where I finish this quote because I'm going to take it up. How, sir, is it possible, a respectable president, to understand such a thing, to send such lies to the entire U.S. Congress? It is false that they are veterinary surgeons who take blood from 5,300 mares each week. There are not even so many veterinarians in this country who can follow through on that. It's pure and smart. It's not true. I'm amazed to remind you to stand here as the elected representative of the nation and receive such mail. All of this is also under the supervision of the Food Agency and the company itself, which operates a special animal host, says here, and studies show that the mare will not be harmed by the transfusion. I'm just asking, "What about the foals that don't get growth hormone while they're growing in the womb?" What about them? No, a respectable president, of course they don't matter. Not according to this legislation and the authority on which this animal is based. With the permission of the president, I'm going to continue witnessing directly to this mail that I received from the director of Iseka right now just before noon, along with, I think, all members of the council: Despite the strict and highly controlled routine of blood transfusions, however, it is evident that inappropriate anomalies can arise. This is not the case with Icezak, and negotiations with farmers are canceled if they are not kept. It kind of reminds me of the opium. When it comes to the situation of an opioid company, it is condemned that young people are dying all over Europe and in the United States all over an overdose of opioids, what did the pharmaceutical company say? Yeah, we've followed all the strict rules and we're trying to do all the best, and we're going to keep the young people from getting hooked and we're going to do everything, everything, everything and stop trying to sell these things to everyone who eats, whatever happens to them. Come on, Mr. Honorable President, let's go. In addition, Izaka has decided to attack a largely improved management of the company's monitoring of donors closely cooperated with agricultural and animal care experts. - What a surprise, a respectable president, with all due respect. The point of the improvement program includes the following: the increased training and training for fellow workers. The increase in welfare watchers, who will continue to attend all blood transfusions. But now we naturally know that I have been told that there are already some veterinarians who take blood out of all the mares that I say is not true, but all of a sudden it's not enough; now there are some health - care professionals on top of it. That's interesting. Then there's cameras all over the place, says here. A respectable president. There is only one thing that can be done, that is to rule out hemostasis, and those farmers who get out of the forward because they need to make it better. It is here for us to direct them somewhere other than where the Iskaca wants to direct them, on continued haematopoietic therapy. We're supposed to direct them somewhere else, help them with their sustainability, help them operate the countryside, live in the countryside, whether it is by it, as we've talked many times over at the council, and have not yet become a reality, but hopefully this council, that we help farmers with the inexpensive energy that they can produce and sustain us in the production of vegetables and fruits. It is true that we must first, more dignified president, get the public system in order because there is plenty of electricity. However, there is a need to get it to a consumer who is a completely different story. I think I covered my heart wide and wide. I just want to thank all the good people and all the expensive friends who have encouraged me, both abroad and abroad. I'd like to mention that I heard of an adult yesterday--and someone said to me, which I'm not gonna mention here, that the only thing that wasn't quite 100% to him was that he chose the Independence Party. I didn't quite agree that he couldn't be perfect for it, but I like a lot of independent platoons, although I have the feeling that they are the ones who are defending the animals of Iseka. I have a feeling somehow, but maybe it's just my feeling. But he was a grown man who said that he did not realize it until he saw this disgusting image that he was in tears. I never thought I would, he said, that I would cry for such things as I never expected Iceland to be this way today, we would have no more respect for mutes and people dependent on us than we would have to deal with so much expensively. We received reviews about the case I made here on March 16, the reviews that were meant to be from stakeholders who minimized the case at that time, although this picture did not come out. Not only did they take the matter lightly but they made it clear that you were a sort of elf out of the hill and that you had no idea what you were talking about. I'm waiting to see the reviews now. I call it the memo wave of the Icelandic mare, and I can't see any better than the people will agree with me. Now that the case goes to the committee, I'll just tell everyone: Send in envelopes, reviews to the professional committee when we ask for reviews. Send envelopes to the Environment Committee where there is a request to triple this blood glucose industry from the current level. Let's show what we're made of. We're expensive friends, and all I believe is that it's most members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u37	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Inga Sæland Land for her story and would like to give her some further questions, and then plan to give the following talk. Hv. A senator covered this industry extensively, and he described it quite healthy in many ways. But before we go any further, I'd just like to say that what we saw in a video from a foreign animal rights organization is very disturbing to the way it is presented. Then I'm talking about equipment and how the horses are going during all this. But I'd like to know by then. A member of the council whether it's such that he believes that this is a common practice, what we saw in the video from these animal protection organizations, how the horses were walked, and the equipment they were provided for all of this together, whether it is so that we can put all these 119 farmers in the same category, the only one that was shown.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u38	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'm certainly not hoping, more dignified. Senator, I certainly hope not that 119 farmers are put together in such a way that they pick, coat, kick, and bite the horses. The other is so totally clear that no matter how you look at it, you can't make this operation beautiful. So there are different kinds of feelings of distress, fear, and pain that the animals experience. Whether it's on the scale a lot, a little bit, or just a little, it's a violation of Icelandic animal traffic law and completely unforgivable conduct and treatment of pregnant mares
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u39	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Inga Sæland for his answer. I wonder, as a result of this response, we can debate whether this operation, to take the blood of mares, to be animalized, or not, as if I'm not of that opinion. On the other hand, I believe that since horses walk around horses, they should do so with great respect and consideration for horses and treat them kindly. The question was also presented earlier. A senator that these were more or less wild horses, and that may be part of the problem presented, for example. In this fine video - or not fine, it's a terrible video - the lack of horses is considerable, and therefore they are not tamed. We now know this too, as though horses are relatively comfortable under these circumstances, where things happen differently. But if they don't have to walk that way. True, I know what the answer will be. Senator, she just wants to ban it. But I also wondered about farmers. She came in, I think, earlier that they need it added that we're taking this branch away from them. Whether they have imagined the amount of money that has to be made in the past or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u40	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for second answer. Yeah, they say there's between 200 and 300 million there. K. In a year when these 119 farmers are paid for their hard work, of course, they have different mares on their side. So that's where it's at. But at the same time, I'd like to point out that this is where we're sacrificing a much higher priority for my interests. We are sacrificing our appearance on foreign soil in regard to horse farming and eviction on horses, which, on the other hand, gives us about 2 billion dollars this year. if you have a correct estimate according to the data I have from the Iceland lab. So this amount, I'd say. A senator, 200 to 300 million. We are in a position to assist farmers and to meet them in this regard. Anything to stop this animal from happening.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u41	A respectable president. We're discussing a bill to correct a change in animal welfare law, forbidden to blood flow. I'm one of those guys who's proud of this bill. To prey on one animal in order to prey on another animal must be the most miserable thing in the world. And if we start thinking about why one animal is being nagged to prey on another animal and the circumstances in which it is being done, we will be shocked, and we must insist that it be stopped immediately. A pregnant foal: Five litres of blood up to five times, eight times in the worst, that's even worse, what must tell us is that these hares aren't normal. [[It's up to eight times.]] It's nothing but a bad and horrible thing to do. Don't forget, it's a foal, it's got another living animal inside it. And the purpose of achieving this hormone is to prey on the next animal, the pig, to make it ready for a pig long before it is to be ready and to produce more. It's so amazing it's happening. What may have hit me most is that when you talk to people in the city, they shake their heads, they say it can't happen, that we can't be so evil, that we couldn't have made this kind of industry. The fact came out, however, and it was shown on a recent show. Such industrial activity is practiced in South America and the descriptions of how this industry is even more horrible. It's so horrible that it doesn't even have the way they do it there. I won't leave it here in this speech chair because I was appalled. I thought sometimes you could be dumb, but it's a long way beyond morality. The fact that there is a state here and industry ready to buy this product of animal judgment makes me amazed. We're talking about an animal we've been calling the most useful servant, an animal we've ever had since our conquest, and somehow everyone can love, an animal I grew up with since I was six years old. Never would I have thought, not for a second, that there was a possibility that someone could go into this industry. And what we hear here, what you're talking about, is whether you can do this beautifully: There's nothing beautiful about it, and you can't do it nicely. Animals are terrified. We can make a decision to donate blood, that is one thing, but we would not be allowed to do anything like this. Everything would be crazy about that. That's why we have to stop this. It is impossible to apply the method of binding the animal's head to force a needle in the neck to extract blood. And for the sole purpose of bringing on other animals, to increase what? Production? And what's the raisin in the sausage end of this whole thing, this amazing vampire -- what do you call it? You're rich. Where's Morality? Is it okay to make one million, 100 million, hundreds of millions, billions of dollars on the misery of these animals? I say no. And what may be the most surprising of all is that those who are conned into this, farmers, will be remembered. It seems that there are two, three, four people who take all the money. And they fight with their mouths and jaws to keep doing this. But we should help farmers who have somehow strayed and feel the need to go into this trade. I believe that if these farmers could go to another place and earn the same money for that, they would leave immediately. I don't doubt it. I have no doubt that any farmer - I was in the country for many years, and I never realized that farmers were in the process of preying on their animals, and I don't believe that any of the farmers who now practice this industry would not be prepared to give it up at once if they had agreed that it would not cause them financial damage. And if we take their damage together in this context, I'm sure it's only a fraction of the gigant profit of the company that makes this hormone. I didn't mean to have a lot and a long talk about it, but I'm just saying, like animal friends, and I'm quite convinced that a lot of the people are friends, and I'm gonna be afraid of it. I believe that they will support once and for all the time that we will stop doing this. We are to show the worth of stopping this now, before the European Union forces us to stop. It was the custom, I know, in more countries, in the North and Germany, but they stopped. They developed, and they stopped preying on animals to prey on other animals. We're supposed to make sure that once and for all, the blood money that now comes into an amazing profit, I've seen up to 1.7 billion dollars. In the four years, let it be no greater, that there'll be no increase in it. I would have preferred that we have managed to obtain these blood coins and use them to prevent and stop this industry. It would be best if it were possible, but I guess you can't. But we are under obligation to stop this. We are under obligation to protect the animals. It is not within our reach, nor should it be to remain neutral when we know, to see it, and to be able to see it on the Internet immediately. Although unskilled, methods are even worse used elsewhere. It does not make us better that others are worse, and it is not an excuse for any who try and really want to do it well. That's not possible. This must always be the case with the animal to get blood money to produce blood money. And let's stop it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u42	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion, but I just want to say something. It seemed to me that things were going pretty far by. An official to talk about having stakeholders who were going to do this animal business. I'm not a stakeholder in this case. I have no other interests in this matter than that in this country there is a normal life of employment that adheres to the rules of living. Hv. paritaprevir Sæland Goland gave a bloody speech, claiming that all the horsemen are opposed to what was happening to those vampires. But I'm telling you, it's not quite true. I think there are differences of opinion in that group, like in other parts of the community. I would like to state, before they say any further, that in my words there is no animal support, no support for what was shown in the case, no support for the lack of animal protection. We're all there. But we can have very different views about what our job life is supposed to be like. I have to say, it's amazing if we're going to this room to put all those 119 farmers under one hat. If one farmer, who is one too much, became guilty of law - or two or more, I don't know how many they are, I hope they're not more, but then that's two too many - we can't judge the whole class, the brain of the agricultural branch, from the mistake of one party. That's not possible. We will not be threatened by foreign parties. We live forever in the face of threats from foreign people. How many times have the Americans not threatened us with whaling? Those who themselves hunt most of the whales in the world. You can't listen to people like that. We must be careful to listen to threats. We're not threatening each other here in this room, and we're not being threatened here, nobody. We're not involved. As I love the writer of this case, I feel that in my report, I have a long way to say: In Iceland, there are a lot of conflicting and conflicting violence in the use of blood. Another is violence and ill - treatment. Here comes a nice farmer before, what? A senator, and described it a little, and I'm not going to go into it. I'm just saying, you can't put everyone under the same hat. This must not happen, and we must have the courage to get through this smoke and discuss these matters normally. I think the way of this case is that there will be special regulations and that you must be granted permission to practice this article; that there will be rules about what the equipment needs and how it needs to be handled, and there will be some evidence to give it back. I don't know exactly what it's like today, but I know it's not authorised. I think it would be a good start to do this permit. I also note that among the 119 farmers who engage in this article, there are many who make ends meet in the farming business with this. I know that the man's heart beats, so he does not want to attack those who earn the least and who lose the money. So now the peasants are looking for ways to survive, and there's at least one of them. 100 farmers who do that. We're not going to take their food away, but we have to discuss these matters, and I'm confident. The job committee to do this as a result. I don't think it's such a good idea to put up cameras in this industry. It's just that in the commercial world to the sea and rural areas, things that aren't always very impressive. We, who had worked many things and had participated in various activities, know that many things such as this are happening. In the sea, people see ostensibly, many things that cause fear and discomfort. I'm not sure that the pictures of sheep, or when a calf comes into the world, are something everyone wants to see, even though it in itself is very beautiful and all is good to say. But there are all kinds of things in the country and in the commercial world that are not necessarily convenient for those who do not know a locality. I encourage us to take this discussion with a greater modesty than we've been inspired here. I know that the manager is a blood-hot man in his presentation, and he wants his affairs to go ahead. But I say, "Let's be careful, before we go along with this bill. "
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u43	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his fine speech. I must now say that I love you, too, Ási. I'm really good for you. But I think you're completely, completely out of the cow, with all due respect. First of all, I'd like to ask who. Because he mentioned that there are probably about 100 farmers who simply own their livelihood under this industry, otherwise they could not end up together. In my history, a senator has not noticed that I requested that these 2,200,300 million. K. Overall, I think it's exactly 207 million. K. which the farmers will get, if I remember correctly, that we would step in there and make it up to them and help them get into a different habitat. Because I know that most of them are not interested in this article. And then there's the other question, what? paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson: How can you do this beautifully? How can you take a wild mares and do it nicely without violating animal protection laws? Doesn't she get scared? Doesn't she feel? Isn't she terrified? Isn't that just one of the things specifically stated? Senator, in violation of the animal protection law? It is worth our natural attention to see how you are affected. A senator is going to do this trade and take this blood transfusion beautifully.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u44	A respectable president. I appreciate that answer. Yes, I noticed that at what time. A senator said she wanted to improve the loss of income for farmers. I noticed that, that's right. I don't know exactly how many of those 119 people have these as a branch and close the algorithm every month with these revenues, but they are some, as I am told. Of course, it is also with farmers like others, that although we want to buy from them our employment, we may well need in this room to think that farmers, within the bounds and rules of law, can choose their own professions and their branch offices in the country. I think that's one of the questions we need to consider. For the treatment of animals that are not old, I know from old experience that it is not easy. It is not easy to deal with an untainted horse, but it is also in itself that it is just how it is done, what sort of things are going on, and how the equipment is working. I've recently participated in getting eight horses who had never come under human hands, it went very well, so I say it. It is always a question of professionalism, and of course, it is not always a beautiful thing to do in order to master animals. I've been involved in it myself, and everyone's done it, just farmers have done it. That's why I say professional life and country life aren't always simple, it's not always smooth and smooth. But behind them are farmers who have been cultivating the earth and raising these animals because they enjoy it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u45	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I'm going to allow me to question the fact that many of the farmers who practice this farm made this their own initiative. But I'm really in the middle of nowhere, that's just what I've heard from many of those who do this work. Everyone I've spoken to would be grateful to it if they lost their income because of the more active work they've been doing, as I know it, because of the motivation of the company of Iseka, who has come to see the farmers that they are practicing this trade. I'd also like to point my tail. A senator says that I somehow felt like he thought the band today and the farmers today were like this 40 years ago. It's not. It's just that it's not. It is a completely different treatment and good treatment. Really, it is an ugly farmer who abuses his cows or each other. And already it is. A senator picks up six horses on a pagan or anyone else, a wild horse - I could believe him in his kindness rather than a piece of apple or something like that, so as to snack them and try to be nice to them than to kick them. I suppose so, however, it would be such a rather decent and respectable behaviour, I would say, to the beast, to strengthen her confidence and be her friend. And I'm 100% sure that's what it is. A senator has done so. That's why he was so clever of catching those wild horses with him.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u46	A respectable president. Well, thanks to me, the horses got caught, I'm just gonna have to admit it. Of course, I do know that it is important that I have the power to stand in the way. [[Up front.]] But as for the farmers'initiative in this farming - I don't know it any more than you do. They may have taken that opportunity to obtain the income they needed to close accounts each month. Away from this unique case, if the Council is going to pay forever -- well, I'm now telling the entire industry just out of a labour market -- we're here with the media on the arm, the Senate's starting to pay for the media. It's time to take the mare. And I'm just saying, don't we just have to make rules about this operation so that it can be done in such a way that it's time? I think it's important that we set rules that are important. Don't start by saying we're just supposed to stop, just pay for the calls in the country, and this is just a dead case. And then the foreigners can be happy and can stop threatening us. - Don't listen to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u47	A respectable president. Thank you. Ásmundur Ásmurmur Friðriksson for his speech earlier. But I just have to say right now, I'm 100% against him. I've been in the country, and talking about the birth of animals or other things has so far not terrified one or no one. It has been shown in many animal movies and other things, and no one has taken a dump about it. But why would this wildlife, where we prey on one animal in order to destroy another, be one of the best secret kept? Iceland history? Why has this never been a topic of discussion? That's because there's none of them who are doing this proud thing of doing it. I have never seen a farmer who is proud and says: "Come and see. I'm about to take blood from my bitch. She has a foal, and I'm going to take 25, 30, 40 litres a month, or two months. I'm going to sell it and make money out of it so that a pig can be nagged, which is not ready for a pig. She's not ready because she's just got a pig, and because she's not ready to have any more of that pig, she's gonna have to pump that hormone to get ready. You have to forgive me. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson, but this can't be right, and it can't be done beautifully. That's absolutely impossible.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u48	A respectable president. Thank you, man. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson. I've been saying that there are a lot of jobs, a lot of things in the country, things to sea that aren't pretty, and that's never gonna happen. Even a lot of jobs around here on the pier that's not pretty. I've also been in a country, and I'm naturally graduated in a degree from a Steinah carpet under the Eyjafjordy Mountains, and so I'm joking, as you were doing earlier. You're talking about this secret being the best kept secrets of this business. Of course, I didn't know anything about it until it struck us in the media, perhaps just like you, my dear friend. But it's probably as bad for it as it isn't. But I know, and I leave it to the wise and good man that the group of people who took up this film were invited to come to a farm where it was all done with great dignity and professionalism and how it was actually done. It was refused. That's the old story. Good news is never to be delivered. Never good news, just bad news and farmers should suffer for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u49	A respectable president. We have to agree to disagree completely. I don't see how it should be possible to make a beautiful photo of the procedure of blood donation. I just can't get it. This is not possible because it is an animal and it does not want blood removed. We can talk green and blue here all night about this. The fact is, this animal is forced into the blood supply. And as if I have to reiterate once more, don't forget it, it's a margarita with a colt, otherwise there's no point in getting it either. What's going to happen to the foal? The result? Just that, should be enough, just the consequences for the mares and the foal. There should be enough to stop this. But the purpose of getting that hormone, to attack the next animal with hormones, is moral. I understand that anyone who does this does not want this on the air. It is absolutely impossible for them to want to do so. It paints a shiny picture of it: Yes, yes, we can make it very beautiful, and everyone gets very happy and merina quite shiny and smiling at having blood taken off. It'll never be, it won't make sense. No matter what we try to imagine. This is violence against an animal and is designed to prey on another animal. That is the fact that we must face. That's why there should be no rules, that's all it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u50	A respectable president. I agree that there will never be a beautiful picture of such an operation, no more than when it is being made of codfish at sea. It is not particularly beautiful, it is often a conflict. But you asked me what's going to happen to that colt, and I think that's what's important. That's exactly what we need to talk about. What happens to the colt? That's why I'm talking about setting up regulations and licences on how the studs are treated. It's just a big deal about what happens to them and the time of their years they go to slaughterhouses. There are many such things that need to be considered, and I agree completely with you. I agree with you, too, that we have to do this well. When talking about morality, we agree that there is a need for professional morality. National moral values need to be high, and moral standards need to be maintained in everything we do not like. We just agree on that. There are conflicting views about the things in the world, allowing the other, some want to allow whales, and others won't allow them, but the most important point in all of this is that they are morally and that they are right and that they respect the life they are having. That's always the case, and let's keep it safe. I'm on your side, and I don't think we're far from each other in it. I can't believe that any man in this room is far from us in it. But we have to be able to go through this business discussion, how we want to see it. If we're always going to give in to the threat of foreigners and such things - it just doesn't work. It doesn't work. But we're supposed to take the discussion. If the conclusion has to stop and we agree on it, we will. If not, let's go on, but so that our morals will be fine.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u51	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for your background here. I'm one of the partners of this bill. I'm proud of the importer on this bill. In 1st. The bill says: It is forbidden to take blood from pregnant mares in order to sell it or process it as a hormone PMSG or any other product for sale. A speaker asked him: "What about the foals? Yeah, what about them? They're taking blood and growth hormone from pregnant mares. What effect will this have on the animals? Let us ask ourselves that question. Well, my opinion is that there's a bad treatment when you're doing this, of course, it's taking growth hormone from pregnant marshes, and we can imagine the effect it has on the foal in the packed mares, it's not yet thrown. Taking blood out of pregnant mares is expensive in itself. It is morally reprehensible. That's what's happening. Your treatment will not improve this. Because of that, this bill works. I would also like to point out that this is not a case where you could say, "Yes, there was an example, a movie that showed that it was expensive, but it doesn't change the operation itself. " Why is that? I've already pointed out they're full of shit, and that's what it's all about. They're taking the hormone, and we can imagine what it looks like. And I'm just hoping that the press is about it, to be honest, what the colt looks like when the mares finally hit. There's gonna be a story to the next town. It's also called a job. The thing is, it's 119 farmers, and there's 207 million to 300 million that they get every year for this, as I know best. There is no question that these are full - time farmers, these are wild mares who are being taken out of blood and who are working on wild mares, hardly a hundred percent of their jobs on farms. This is in the country region, of course, and this shows a bit of the country's settlement, that this trade should take place there. Who are these nations pursuing? Now blood glucose management is not the preferred procedure in Europe, I know. It was practiced in South Germany, in the only farm I've ever heard of, it stopped immediately. Yes, we are in a group of the following states: Uruguay, Argentina, Russia, Mongolia, China. Iceland is one of the richest communities in the world, and we are sixth in number to OECD, a club of rich nations. None of them are doing this work, nothing. It shows the state of the country and the need for farmers in Iceland to be in it, it just doesn't work. The General Assembly of the Icelanders is required to ban this operation, and, of course, those who practice such farming have to be paid and lost, must be replaced. This can be done in a specific procedure, perhaps over a period of years. But these are coins of small value in the overall picture below. The European Parliament challenged the European Commission and the Member States to stop the import and production of the PMSG hormone. The challenge also extends to EU Member States so it actually reaches Iceland. Why? Because this is a warning in the European Economic Area, this hormone is a product sold in the European Economic Area so that the European Parliament's challenge to stop this activity goes to Iceland. Legalization in the European Union usually begins, or quite often, at the European Parliament. The Commission is required to do something, such as here, to stop the import and production of the hormone. That's how the legislation begins. Then comes the Commission with a bill, a directive or a directive that will be in accordance with the laws of the Union. This is what's going on in Europe. At the same time, there are plans here to triple the production, to reach 600,000 gallons [600,000 L], and to move from 5,000 mares to 15,000 mares. Iceland is going in the opposite direction to what the European Parliament calls for. It's naturally completely crazy. It can be seen that within a few years these activities will be banned in the European Union. And what's Iceland going to do? Are we still going after the wave? Instead of banning it now and having resolved the case before the directive enters the joint committee, into the State Department of State, and then into this area where it will be banned? It's much better to ban it, and it's over. At any rate, we will show a small amount of independence instead of allowing the case to be brought in on the basis of a controlled agent and we will be forced to ban it, forced to say yes. At the same time, the greater part of the United States has said no a few years earlier, perhaps two years earlier. That's a shame. I hope to be a member of Congress here when this ban is approved, let me remind you that in our people's Tracks, we have twice proposed the bill of this subject and the majority of the council, the same council, the same members of Congress, said no. It will be nice to see how the government watchman will be used. There will be no courage in here in any way, no more than in the third energy package, to say no. I'm not going to do any more talking about it here. Another very important factor in this is the image of the country. It's almost impossible to talk about inaccessiblely. In the past six years, Iceland's practice has been in a special marketing campaign to introduce the American horse in foreign lands. This introduction is in a way that the horse brings people closer to nature, and its aim is to increase the value of the Icelandic horse, to strengthen its image in the consciousness of people around the world, and to market the brand Horses of Iceland. I took a course once in marketing, and I don't know anything about any activity that would damage the name Horses of Iceland or the entire marketing campaign and position of the Icelandic horse in the world, which is absolutely unique in all the horses of the world. We can go to Germany, the United States, or Scandinavia. I've been in Scandinavia, I've lived in Norway, and there's Islands Horseen on top of a ledge. The fact that people in the world need news of what is being done with the Icelandic horse, full of marshes, is quite different. The resulting damage is so much more than these 207 million that farmers get, hopefully all living in the country, than any of the income they make. We're putting this in the ballast with this money, the damage to the image, and I'm not talking about how moral the blame is, and how much it's worth on all the expensive marshes. That's basic. The responses we have received from The Gang of the People are unbelievable. There are great and intense feelings in this matter and shall be no wonder. This film that showed how it was - it was earlier that it was supposed to be in public. All you could see was that the people who were going where they were taking the blood, they were just stopped, they weren't even supposed to be involved. It was to be done under the cover of night, and it only shows how the people working on it look at it, to say the least. I'd also like to point out about the foal that it's not culture, it's a relatively recent operation. The Icelandic horse has been used as a horse throughout the centuries since the conquest, the most needed slave. This is a relatively new activity, which is basically only practiced in the Third World. We as a rich nation - this has nothing to do with this, not in any way. With regard to the international community and the Icelandic horse abroad, I'm holding here on a magazine entitled International Meeting of Icelandc Horse Association, i.e. The international organization of the Icelandic horsemates in the world. They condemn this transfusion, blood transfusion, and fully support the legislation against this law. There is no support for this for the world's International Horseman Association at the time of the Icelandic horse. The horse is the first horse in Iceland. Regarding animal protection and animal abuse, this question is, How do we as a nation view animal protection? This is fundamental. This is an animal protection case. What is the status of animal protection in Icelandic society? Are we as one of the richest societies in the world to say: Yes, it's all right because there's a little bit of money in it? There are 207 million to 119 farmers, and the income of Isek, 1.7 billion, is mine, and it's about to triple all the weight. I believe that the Allied Council of Iceland can ban this and support these farmers, pay them compensation so that they can go to another business, raise a horse, or pursue other agriculture in the provinces where it is practiced. That's basic. It also shows the state of the country today that we are among those countries I listed earlier, and that is totally unacceptable. I'm not going to start talking about the state of the country. I could give a long talk about it. So it does not change living conditions and living conditions in the area of the country except here in Reykjavík and in the capital area. This issue also involves how we want to view ourselves in the international community when it comes to animal protection. These are questions we need to answer here with this bill, this is a question that every senator has to answer in fact, that after two years or four years, a European directive says that it should be banned and everyone says yes and no one has opinions on this, it just goes through the council. How important it is that those who oppose this matter make their point and give reasons for their speech! It is absolutely impossible for this to be put to sleep on a Senate committee, and no one really knows who was against it and who was wearing this bill. This bill for law is to answer these questions, how we view ourselves as a nation, how we view ourselves as an animalistic and agricultural society, a food nation, and that the horse is holding the position it has held over the years, and then it is the market, what the image of the Icelandic horse in the world is and Iceland is about, not just the Icelandic horse. This has harmed Iceland in so many ways, the Icelandic horse, society and tourism, and it has to stop as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u52	Madam President. I heard the first thing I heard about blood circulation during springtime. paritaprevir Sæland Goland proposed a bill on this matter. I just have to admit that I had no idea what it was about. Maybe I thought you were. A senator would be merely overstepping the case. But since then, I've come to know this matter a little bit better and I just have to say that I don't feel like it's any way. I find the fact that we are dealing with animals, as it turns out. The bill's report says, with permission from the President: To maximise the performance of each mares, foals are passed on as often as possible until the hormone is no longer present in her blood. At that point, the mares are slaughtered. Usually, the sheep are slaughtered. I don't know that it would be good for any mammal to wear offspring one after another, with no breaks in between. All that is in my mind is enough to make me feel that we can't accept this. It just doesn't make sense. I'll admit I don't know very much about the Icelandic horse, but this I think is very clear. This isn't working. And take five liters every time--I'll quite admit also that I imagined a slight puncture, there wouldn't be much of a problem. But five litres, this is no small amount being taken. Only in view of the letter that came from Isteka today, about how they were going to handle matters, would it be nice to quote only the reports received, including the comments? from that firm, in spring. With the permission of a president, I will only quote from Arnór Guðlaugsson, the director of Iseka, the same one that wrote the letter, in fact. that the Senate bill was made with so much ignorance that there could be no material answer. Instead, the manager said that a detailed quality manual for blood transfusions was prepared and that each farmer sold his products to Isaka, which was unique in Iceland, had been a uniquely expensive contract. Is this not something that he is promising in his letter we received today? It was also noted that the company employed a special animal host and quality agent which had access to horses and farmers' facilities for counseling and follow-up. Sounds familiar. The Treaty Treated by Isek said that it was based on the conditions of the Food Agency and the Preservation of Animal Travel acting in accordance with the latest laws and regulations. It would even be there. Find specific regulations for being discreet in dealing with the mares. Would it improve with cameras? Then who's going to take a look at the pictures from the cameras? A review also came from Svavar Halldórsson, who, in addition to a agricultural adviser, told Izaka a fine example when it comes to animal travel, the blood was all under the supervision of veterinary surgeons and the Food Institute and stressed that the company was the only thing in this country that would have a rule of making special expensive traffic with farmers. Okay, so this was what we saw and what's going to change with what they promised today? And why are they promising this today? It's because they've been blown away. It's been invented, and they knew it was here today. But this is not enough. Vegetarians disagreed with the format of the bill this spring - some veterinarians were. Iceland's Animal Medical Association outlined the guidance of the Food Agency in its comments on the matter and tore it up that Irka himself had an active internal surveillance of the operation, and that it was monitoring and monitoring of the Food Agency, in order to ensure the well - being of the mares and the foals that do not receive growth hormone. It was also noted that the company of Isteka was on their side of a veterinarian's team that carried out a quality and welfare check on the blood collection. During the period of blood transfusion, he visits basic and towns and checks the circumstances at a blood transfusion site, such as evaluating the risk of accidents, that bloodleters are stable and justly designed, that their own blood is flimsy and delicate, and that they themselves are correct. The boats we saw in the film that has been named here - were those just designed and with the blessing of the Animal Medical Association? The reference work also says that the Animal Medical Association believes that the conditions established by the Food Organization provide for the operation and the monitoring that the functioning would ensure the well - being of the animals. I don't know exactly what to do. People feel this way, but I think it's pretty clear that the well - being of animals is not insured. There were also comments from several animal doctors, but it should be noted that not all veterinary surgeons are in favor of this treatment of animals, but some are, and some have accused the representatives of the bill on the role of the profession. That's all I'm going to say. From 2013 onward, a veterinary surgeon who said that she felt that it would be most boring to have to argue that her work was a matter of respecting animal travel and that it would be a great deal of control over this growing agricultural industry. It also stated that blood would be monitored weekly for the horses and the situation by veterinary surgeons. Irkek's internal surveillance would be very effective and would be a veterinary practice that would monitor animal doctors, farmers, horses, facilities, and animals. Most important, monitoring of MAST is very effective and the Agency has control of animal doctors, farmers, horses, facilities, and others. Blood tests and blood tests are assessed regularly. In addition, all farmers who hold mares for blood collection until a high - cost traffic contract was signed, according to a veterinarian's heading. In his joint review, a horse farmers in the North, who carry mares for blood, said that there was a lot of surveillance, and if needed, it would be very rare. Their review also says that farmers who hold on to blood production are fully trustworthy to do so in a way that ensures that their well - being is insured and if there is such an unlikely wish, veterinary surgeons who administer blood transfusions would be more than qualified to wish for improvement or other action if needed. I wondered if they would have appeared somewhere. In turn, a food - eating agency is on its own, and this is a good - looking setting in which these livestock are covered, says the prayer of a horse. I'm going to confess that until we started discussing this case in Floki in the fall, and I saw this film that I didn't know how to do it in these matters. The second factor is that we need to help the farmers who are affected by this. We must help them to focus their efforts on other articles, whatever they may be, and to correct them. Like what? Ármannsson It's Iceland's image that counts, and it's underneath. It's not just a war with any governments or something like that, it's the public opinion we're dealing with. It's the public who buys goods from us. It is common people who travel to the country, and it is important what the public in the world may think. I think we'll win that money back, fast and good through all the trades we have in abroad and through the tourist business and all that sort of thing. There is also nothing that can justify evil treatment of animals. There's been a lot of things discussed here, but I'm staying a lot at an animal, a large and beautiful horse, these are some of the most elegant creatures in the world - keeping a mammal so full of time, that alone I don't think I'm good at dealing with animals. This is the main thing I would like to say about this subject for at least the time being.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u53	President. I'd like to get involved in this bill being presented today. This article discusses the prohibition on blood collections from packed mares, which are forbidden to a specific branch. Hence, in his background, an authority made clear that those who would speak against this bill would no doubt be primarily concerned with certain interests and goods if they did not all come from a special category to care for their interests. I just want to say in the beginning that I think the discussion is really needed and that it is important. I also want us to reroute the discussion just from the text that is presented in a report, and I'm just going to try to do so. I see it in this discussion today, which I think can fit more, especially farmers of this country, and I'm one of them, that what we're dealing with is that there is not always an understanding of how we have to work and how we're working. What we may find to be a natural treatment of animals, and for a long time, others may view as violent and extreme treatment of animals. And let us just respect these views, let's just understand them because they are presented in good faith. People who are not accustomed to contact with animals, who do not know how to do so, may stumble toward this conclusion, and let us just talk about it and respect it. We are discussing the processing of blood that has been practiced for decades. This alone does not justify its continuing. And that will never justify it in my mind, and I'd like to make it clear - I can never come to the IIlize chair and defend in some way mistreating animals. I've been accused of very poor treatment of animals. There are terrible steps to be in the face of that strain. In the end, it could not be claimed that the treatment of animals was poor, but it was simply another person's experience that I was being ill - treated. And it's this cultural differences that we may be dealing with today. On the subject of this report, I would like to say that I agree with the laws on the welfare of animals and the aim of helping to increase the well - being of animals and that they are free of distress, hunger and thirst, fear and suffering, pain, injury, and disease. And I'm only saying this, a respectable president, that there has been significant improvements in the well-being and management of the animals in Iceland and around the world, which is more successful. Farmers have had to make major investments in order to meet new demands. But I want us to look beyond the field and also ask what requirements we will make for other farmers in other countries where we would like to do business. Are we just as preoccupied with it? When I had another job, president of Iceland's Farm Association, we pointed out, for example, It is repeated that there was a significant difference between the use of a variety of livestock and those produced by Icelandic farmers, which simply led to an animal production at home. But it did not seem to matter here on the market that there are other requirements for equipment in other countries. We did not get any special premium for it, had no advantage in doing so. This was primarily to reduce the competitiveness of Icelandic farmers. I don't want us to get involved in this matter here at the council by saying that we can say without fail, as the report says, that wild horses are treated with violence. I find it a very serious charge to say so in this article. I must protest from the General's public assembly that the judgment is pronounced on all the farmers who have been present in this farming because I know that it is not. Why is this farming? The debate has been presented here that people, of course, understand that people are making money from their lands and making money from farming. And I love to hear that there's a better understanding of it. This farming is especially the result of man's own land. There is room in their fortunes, and there is a business opportunity to hold a horse and sell blood from it. I think it is important to study the effect of taking blood from pregnant mares, whether on the fetus, on the foal or on the mares themselves. And the amount taken each time, four to five litres - if not lost, I learned in the old livestock that there were 20 to 25 litres of blood in each horse. We need to consider how this will affect us before we do so in this way. There are dozens of farmers who survive this farm. This is reality. That's why I don't feel any worse about you and I discussing it here in 1st. and there has been an outstanding reviewer and other members of Parliament who have participated in this discussion. In the past, we have seen that something we have done for centuries or decades has proved unacceptable today. We stopped, for example. fishing for salmon. It was not the state that prohibited salmon fishing, or people who wanted to protect the salmon population, who bound an organization to rent these rights from farmers and repair them. Why do we come directly to the State by making the first prohibition and then taking from the state's funds for that prohibition? If it's a matter that burns on us, which I don't doubt, - and of course it moved a controversial video to me like all the others, and it hurts to sit under a farmer in the country and watch his cell brothers treat the animals in this way - why don't we start talking about how we can cooperate with our farmers in working out and improving their damage, just as we did? fishing for salmon in a net? Do we always need to come to the State and ask for bans and then take away the money and make it better? I'm just saying, let's try to make this conversation even bigger. I'm going to reiterate this once again, a respectable president: I'm not going to defend this animal business, but I'd rather bring down a rebuke, because of this supplied video, over the animal doctors who were supposed to be their confidants and regulations for the treatment of animals in this country. I hate to feel that they have not been doing their job and have been informed in a way that needs to be done in such cases. One of the regulations here is to report a violation of animal welfare laws. That puts me in some kind of trouble. Just like what? paritaprevir Sæland Goland, the executive of the case, used in his history: Why should only the Food Institute be permitted to report bad treatment of animals? I've never understood the law so that if anyone sees bad treatment of animals, they can't sue or report it. Then I'll again mention the factor I started talking about. Perhaps it is necessary that we have a filter on it because the treatment of an animal experienced by someone who is terrible does not need to be treated unnaturally. Pointing out something worse does not add distress, saying somewhere. And I'm going to end this talk by saying, "It's often, and it's usually dangerous to treat large animals, and often there's a lot of customers to do. But the key is always this: You have to face the animal on the basis of it. Everyone who keeps livestock, thinks animals, must do it. You will not force animals through violence to do some kind of obedience. On the other hand, there may always be some conflict. Idle ride doesn't sit on your ass willingly, waiting to be cut, there's a lot of conflict when she's gone for the first time. But then the animal learns from this, it's stuck, and I know that it's the same way in getting blood on the mares. Of course, the normal requirement should be to take only the blood of a human, healthy horse, that we are not taking a wild stand and that we are forcing it in the way that I know the need to do so. But just as a pilot noted in his background earlier, there are some big plans for the bloodletting of mares, so I think it is important that we take this discussion all the way. A fundamental question still lies here, a respectable president, who has not been discussed here. Why are we going to these hormones? Why are we winning these hormones? Yes, it is so that we can produce less expensive food. These hormones are being used in pig breeding so we can produce less expensive pork. I think that's the core of all agricultural and agricultural discussions, the requirements for cheap food and what the consequences of the inexpensive food will be for the treatment of animals, stenosis of stengium, etc. If we had a case that said: "We are going to be bold and capable in Icelandic animalistic legislation and to ensure the best equipment, I would certainly agree with it. But then I also want to remind you that when they compete with other farmers in other lands, we cannot bind their hands behind them. The fundamental question asked is that hormones are being sought for inexpensive food. I hope and believe that biotechnology will solve the point that we do not have to work this hormone in this way but in some other way, as has occurred in a number of other ways in which we are dealing with cattle. The use of hormones in Icelandic agriculture was banned in Iceland in 1965. At that time, both farmers and consumers did not receive much applause from a leading animal doctor, a forward - sighted animal doctor who fought for that ban. Since 1965 we have not used hormones to enhance animal growth. We also have the privilege of using low amounts of antibiotics in agriculture. Let us recognize that legislation on the welfare of animals has made progress, as is traced to the bill's report. Animal equipment has made great progress. Happily, we can do better than not throw out the entire table of dozens of families in the country by responding in a way that would allow us to proclaim a unscrupulous ban without fully investigating the matter. With this I'm saying, a respectable president: I want the discussion, I want to get through it before I take my stand on the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u54	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For his fine speech, Haraldur the son of Benediktsson describes his beautiful heart. But it is one thing to have such a beautiful heart and to be an animal friend, and it is quite another to look at the exact treatment of pregnant mares. For one thing, I would like to point out that there is nowhere in our report that this is the product of all farmers, as terrifying as in this form, but it says: ◯The picture is reasoned that such harshness may become common in the blood supply of this country. This is especially the case with an entirely untamed mares in some way that must come into this bloodbath and more often than not, must be evil, since they certainly not even be drawn into it with apples. I'd like to start by asking who. Senator on this. Hv. A senator spoke of the need for farmers to work and work. All of us realize what food is for animals and what happens to our animals and what the purpose is when a farmer cultivates them. It's a bit different than choosing to treat the animals like they're being done to extract this hormone from them in connection with the mares. On the one hand, I'd like to ask who. A senator whether he has not noticed that we want to protect these farmers and save them from this estate by paying them and helping them to go to something else that might be a little more expensive.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u55	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Inga Sæland Land for this answer. I took this phrase out of the report that reads, with the permission of the president: '-in the picture, we are convinced that such harshness may be seen in general in the blood collection here on the country. General. It was the reference to this phrase that I made the statement that all farmers were placed here in the same category and accused in the same way. If not, and I hear it at the counter. A senator that it wasn't her meaning, I'll take her entirely her explanation in that subject. What I was only trying to draw out, gi. A senator is an understanding of livestock - and I'm not going to be in the discussion that it is more important to slaughter animals than to take their blood, I'm not going to be there. Those words include: ... herein today's discussion that it might be unnatural to keep mares in place every year to produce blood, and when I hear these talks, I understand that people are trying to deal with situations they may not have lived in. But this is nature's nature, and if the mares were lost in a court, it would be its nature to throw foal every spring and to be loaded every year. I'm just trying to make it clear that we can't take the discussion so far away from nature and nature that we're somehow making it out of some kind of interest we're comfortable with.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u56	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. One thing is that we've been having little discussions here, facing one another, and at our discussion tonight, except what the report shows, and it's only been featured in speeches, and it's our look on foreign ground. In fact, it is the interest we are putting in, the billions we have left in the market to present the Icelandic horse and its respect on foreign soil. If we take what I call an animal park out of parentheses and look at the future for us who want to attract foreign tourists, a country that wants to look beautiful, I'd like to ask: Has it been? A senator is not concerned about how our appearance will be released to the international community in terms of how the information is evaluated in this field in haemoglobin management?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u57	A respectable president. I'll thank you later for the answer. paritaprevir Sæland Happyland and shall try to respond by saying: Of course I am concerned about reputation when we are placed under such a meter or in the light that was there. I'm not going to minimize the damage it can do. But we are often in trouble, and we have conversations about bad things to do. We have taken blood in this way from mares for 30 or 40 years. I see that in our discussion now, after this discussion came up here during the last days, that, for example, is the case. The friend of a horse prayer who said against the bill why. A senator last year, knowing that this bloodletting has been for decades, is now driving back a little bit. Then you are tempted to say, " Wait, are you looking closer and really just looking at your own interests? ' I could be mean, too. A senator, saying, "There's a lot more export of exported blood than a horse, but I just don't put it in that context. The Icelandic horse is a great country in Iceland's farming, in agriculture in Iceland. He is, as a fine man has said, our ambassadors in other lands, and carry our propaganda elsewhere. It is a shock to have such a judgment, such a stamp in the Icelandic horsery produced by this video. I want us to be more balanced in this discussion and to respect those who do this well and in the right way, and we understand how they do it. We cannot, with a single line of pen, judge everyone in the same category by someone who mismanages these things, for as with the booze, it is the calm that strikes it, not everyone else who knows how to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u58	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. First, I'd like to say that this bill is not in any way directly against farmers or directly against the country. It's a bill that looks like an animal's well-being. Like what? The report quotes animal welfare laws and even says that they are free of discomfort, hunger, thirst, fear and pain, injury, etc. He also mentioned the nature of the beasts. I mean, and it's my conviction that bloodletting from the full marshes is opposite the well - being of animals, contrary to nature of beasts, causing them distress and suffering. They're not regular horses, they're full of marshes. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, I hear that he has not made a decision on this subject, would be pleased to know: Has he taken a stand to see if this will go against the well - being of animals or not? With regard to the image, it's a quarter, this 207 million. K. or between 200 and 300 million. But I think this is the type of activity that's going to damage Iceland's food-making country and that's going to damage the image of the Icelandic horse. I would love to hear his feelings about this too.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u59	A respectable president. I'm not ready to say without a doubt that this will go against the well - being of these animals, it's only right to stand because a number of products can go quite close to animals. I'd like to give an answer. A senator I thank for coming into this conversation with, a respectable president, I hope I may allow it, but in view of this discussion, I wondered a little bit about it today, where we will end up with this sort of discussion. I'm not gonna say that because it's this case and this particular prohibition we're dealing with, but it's been discussed with anti-technology practices of cows, cow seeds. That's what I'm saying here, a respectable president, just to snoop back and forth because we're getting so far away from understanding the farmer's work and getting away from nature. I'm afraid that part of what I sense to be part of this case is simply because people don't have the whole picture in mind. So I ask. Back: Will he use himself for banning cow seeds?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u60	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. About a question why. A senator of custodians, I haven't formed an opinion of it. I haven't considered it. I am fully aware of the technological changes and technologies that are about to come into agriculture. I saw an article in the New York Times, I bought it when I was abroad, I could show it to him that the fourth industrial revolution, the information revolution, has totally gone into agriculture. I hope the United States and the World Council give money so far. There are tremendous opportunities in Icelandic agriculture. Tourists, maybe we don't realize what they always talk about. Yeah, there's such awesome food in Iceland, great food in Iceland. Why? Because Icelandic food production has not been industrialized. It's still very natural, if we can call it that. It's a huge opportunity Iceland has as a food-making country. But in this matter, just in this case -- I'm not talking about going out of all comfy ground and banning everything - we have countries we're not supposed to be in a club. These are poor countries in poverty, Uruguay, and Argentina. In Argentina one third of the people live in poverty or more, two thirds, I can't remember the last numbers. Russia and Mongolia and China We're just not in this place as a developed society, in any way. Finally, I would like to point out that it is not likely that the European Union will ban this. Then a decree will be sent to Iceland, from the joint committee, to the General, on a administrative notice, where no rules will be required, the same question will be proposed. So, what will be the attitude of the Allied Icelanders after this bill has been rejected? I think it's much better to be ahead of the wave and ban it now, and there's strong evidence to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u61	A respectable president. I want to thank you. His future senator answers, and he would also like to say that it was not particularly fair of me to send him that question that I did. I just want to make it clear later that I'm always trying to control that understanding is leaving people's circumstances and what needs to be done to live with livestock. I don't mean to say that it started with Disney's comical discussion when Bambi was personal, but it's still a little bit teeming from there. There are two points in the second answer I'd like to try to make a divorce. First of all, the Fourth Industrial Revolution. I think the fourth industrial revolution and what we've been standing for in this country, the paraphernalia of the countryside, is a great opportunity for all Icelandic farmers and for the well-being of animals. The new technology we can build on top of this technology is primarily a means of welfare. The latest equipment being introduced into agriculture, not only in Iceland, but throughout the world, such as hip slaves, micromarkes in sheep, and weight management equipment - these are all things that build under the well - being of animals. I agree with what. A senator he brings up here on the fourth industrial revolution, on food, and not fully industrialized. Perhaps the problem of this discussion here today is about blood circulation because in some way we have a sophistication, we have an analysis. I think it may be, I think that's why we're discussing it in this context. Hv. A senator then puts us in a position to compare us with a poorer state. The reality is that. A senator, that we are dealing with people who are struggling with their goods. There's more and more discussion than we can handle in this discussion, and I'm ready to attend.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u62	Madam President. It's been a very interesting discussion today, really. Even if only that is why there is reason to say thank you. A senator for the progress of the case, but also I think it's a very necessary case. How vital it is for the Council to deal with clear examples of animal life that are not going the way it should go, discussing where we set the limit! So I looked it up for fun and found it's a birthday today: today is five years since I proposed my first inquiry here at a council on government information given on the brown-Engine case. There's a lot of parallels in these two cases. The largest parallel is that it was not the surveillance agency that exposed it, it was the media, someone outside, someone who's not supposed to have to monitor the welfare of animals. We're supposed to have clear rules. We're supposed to have a high level of surveillance, and it's supposed to be as useful as possible. By doing so, we will ensure the well - being of the animals. Sadly, though, that has just not been the case. The surveillance agencies are and have always been neglected. Recently, the law on animal travel is a major step from the past, but it does not go far enough in many ways. But it will not make any difference if the check doesn't follow the law as far as possible. The discussion of these matters is very similar. You see, the common people have their heart in the right place when it comes to animal living. When we see in the media animals that are treated badly, they touch a nerve, and people just say, "Here and no farther. " In the brown egg business, the operator was not just as quick to accept as Icezak was in the declaration that came from them today, but that company realized that it was not possible to defend itself, just to admit the problem and deal with it. The pressure of the public and the pressure of the planned discussion at the council had an effect, so some step will be taken into the company's business. However, the moral question here remains, whether this is a business that could be in harmony with proper farming, a proper attitude toward animals. Let me give you a few numbers. I'm going to start with the first one as a boy. paritaprevir Sæland Goland, in his entropy speech, mentioned that we are talking about 200 to 300 million. K. which farmers earn each year from the blood supply. And we're talking about $1,700 million. K. Based on the export of hormones, $1,700 million in currency income, 200 to 300 million to farmers. These are real values, especially for farmers who are now not the highest income class of the country far from here. Then you can remember. But I stopped a little while ago. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson said that we should not go for blood clotting and thus yield to pressure from some foreign source threatening us. I have not noticed many such sources, but there were a foreign animal protection organization that was involved in the studyalism that exposed this case. Then there's the discussion in this country that's driven this matter first and foremost. But I'd like to mention a few other foreign people. First, I would like to mention the foreign people who love to visit us, who love our country and love our horses. You see, almost every tenth of the traveller who comes to the country goes on a horse while he's here and because our horses are so fun and our ride brings this deep experience to the nature of the country, these are tourists who taste and enjoy being regular guests. You don't just come to Iceland and ride on a horse and never again. As a result, by the permission of a president, Horses of Iceland, which I expect to be just the horse's campaign in Iceland, the year 2018. But what are the billions of people receiving? I guess it's mostly farmers. I would think that horse rents and horse transport companies are mostly smaller family companies here and around the country where nature is going out to get in touch with. This is 7◯8 billion against the 200 to 300 million haematological farmers. And it doesn't have to be some foreign person who's threatening something to undermine these farmers' interests. It just means that the people who love to come to Iceland to ride a horse just don't like it, just don't think it's disgusting. Then I want to talk about other foreign people. It is the foreign people who love our horses so much that they want them to live where they live. And now I'm going to quote the Farm magazine. The news of the day was published regarding the fact that in 2020, last year, more horses were being carried out than in any year since 1997, or 2,320 horses. And remember, there are 5,000 bloodmers. Half the number of them were taken out of the country to people who want to own an Icelandic horse. According to the Habitat, these horses had a combined export value of 1.5 billion dollars. It's similar to the Iseka in the same year, unless Isek is one company, but this 2,320 horse--I'm guessing they came from several hundred farmers. So it is 1.5 billion that is spreading throughout the country for farmers. This is a 53% increase from the previous year. It doesn't have to threaten us to undermine this. It's just that the people who really want to have an Icelandic horse abroad worry that blood-supervising is selling them horses too, e.g. Here we have large financial institutions that can be compared: 1,500 billion currency revenues for the trade of a blood - cell hormone, placed at the head of a tourist ride the horse, and 1.5 billion for the sale of horses from abroad. I don't think that in the long run, these three things can be held on our island at the same time. You can't -- I always find it a little hard to talk about Iceland's image, as it has been often done during the discussion, but, yes, it's what it's all about. This is about the people who want to ride out, want to interact with the horses, want to look at nature on a horse, want to have a horse in their own country. Isn't that just bigger cake than this blood-sugar thing? Is that not what we would rather be guarding? If this blood pressure problem makes it feel that some 100 to 200 farmers, how many people would be who have a substantial share of their income of the eviction or the export of prize plants? Perhaps there is something that the committee might consider. I'm gonna guess that there's a bigger group, because there's one more group of foreign people that it's about and what it's about. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson now mentioned only, in fact, not the same name as I'm going to name him; i.e. The foreign people who love bacon. Because there is only one tooth wheel in the world's factory farming industry. I'd like to say that this is a little bit of a demarcation that some super-product society is going on that has a natural, inhumanized system, as we now usually know from some foreign documentary films, but we see that it extends its scent to this country. Exploitation, whether it is on earth's resources or at the expense of animals, unsuspecting consumption, everything like that, is all that can't lead to the future. The vampires are simply part of -- I may not even call them factory farming. This is hardly farming when we're talking about pumping gilts full of fertility drugs to get the bacon out faster. I enjoy listening to what I have to say. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson is talking about farming. He described his feelings that at times the people in the discussion had lost appreciation for the farmer's work and his understanding of nature. I think we can make that right. But I also think blood supply is part of it, an example of how far we've gotten away from both of these, because factory farming is anything but the farmer's work and some connection with nature, which is what we want to keep. I can, for example, continue my philosophical and moral thinking because it is quite right. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, says that certain things are able to go near animals. It is difficult to see in person some things on farms if we are not used to them. The fact that animals are simply killed to be eaten is often far from where they are. You can't walk closer than that. But this may be something we need to talk about in the coming years because if we set aside the video mentioned in the report and just think of a blood count - I'm going to read here a sentence from the report, with the permission of the president: To maximise the performance of each mares, foals are passed on as often as possible until the hormone is no longer present in her blood. At that point, the mares are slaughtered. Usually, the sheep are slaughtered. If I wanted to be the war, I could point out that it's natural to be milking too. The practicality of humans in animals is often left behind by some such recipe, and the moral question that the world has to deal with at some point is: How much is enough? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think that when we face up to using a horse alone to make more bacon, at least we're good at that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u63	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for his speech. He spoke of tourism and the image of Iceland, the image of the military, and the income of tourism, and the use of products. It is evident that eviction is very near to animals that are slaughtered; they die; for this they are cultivated. But it is not here that man's practicality on animals was natural since we began walking upright. But I'd like to ask you why. A senator who thinks that taking blood from pregnant mares, mares with foals, is morally reprehensible, it goes against the welfare of animals, it works against the aims of animal health, which are that animals can show their natural behaviour, in this case, to wear foal, without regularly blocking the stoppering of the packed bunch of growth hormone and blood? We can imagine what the colt is like. His attitude toward the question of whether this is an animal and is contrary to the well - being of animals, I was not allowed to hear it clearly.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u64	Madam President. In this case, I think the answer is quite clear: No, this system doesn't work. On the other hand, I think in these matters, we're always wearing something different. His blood count's on the outside. But also, serum can be processed from animals to save lives, develop drugs, and cultivate things in laboratorys. It is less clear where the line is. I'm not going to be so definitively there, but I can at least say that keeping 5,000 mares in this business just so that they can pump out more bacon - these people might wonder if they can instead eat a little less bacon.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u65	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. It is true that this is a natural scale, but I believe that in this case we have come to a place where it needs to be banned. I'd also like to point out that there are growth hormones that are then used in pigs, that are not saving lives or anything like that. That's what's underneath. There is another one, these 200 to 300 million, who go to 119 farmers, there are small coins in the economy. And if we look at this from the tourism services, and even food production as well, they're full of nickels. I believe that if this were to be banned, these farmers or those who do this would, of course, have to put their arms around them. Then the State would meet them to help them engage in other activities in the countries that this is being done. I feel that this should be the result of this law, that it is approved, and that's when the government needs to deal with it. I hope so. A senator supports the real issue that enables the bill to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u66	Madam President. I think it might be best to consider ensuring the farmers in general that they have a basic development. Pirats and I have long spoken to civilians, which may be a vision of a longer future if we consider the whole community, but for a short time, we could see distinct groups. I think farmers are a good example of that. Such towns are just a solid basis for maintaining a place of residence. Then when they start producing or doing something else, it just goes on top of it. You're absolutely right. According to one U.S. senator, the 200 to 300 million farmers earn from their bloodmers are very small on the scale of a government fund. But there is also only a small amount of money on the scale of what farmers earn from horses, as I covered in the talk, 7408 billion is the annual rate of horse rents and horse rides, 1.5 billion of the exports of horses. I think this is something a professional committee can cross and call for information. I think we're only in the position of having to weigh these differing interests. It is very difficult to see them permanently, both of them. They just have to evaluate which one is the bigger interests and the smaller ones.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u67	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for a wonderful speech, I must say. I was very happy to hear it. It also expanded its horizons further. He comes on a show that I hadn't mentioned unless I know that instead of being exported to Icelandic horses, 1.5 billion will be the way he did last year, he's going to be about 2 billion bucks. and another country record hit, so that the interests of the game are so much bigger. But I wanted to ask you what. A senator says that this is really the end of the scale. I found his heart in all of this. But what I'm wondering is, because I'd rather, like, now. A senator knows, be a little clear and expressive in his history: From the bottom of the scale or just a violation of the animal protection law? Aren't we there to say, "It's a violation of the expensive traffic laws? The mares are terrified, frightened. Is there a greater danger than a greater risk of feeling weakly said in this situation? And if so, is it not clear that there is a violation of animal rule? I'm counting on it. A senator and many others. Great senators, who will make and hold this matter with us so that all of us can contribute well, both to our benefit as a community, to our farmers and to our total international community.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u68	Madam President. What the video says in the report, I think, is a clear violation of animal welfare laws. Sounds like everyone's agreed on that, from horse farms themselves to Iseka, to the Rapporteur and everyone. I hope that Senator forgives me for the war. I don't think either of us think this is a clear violation of animal traffic laws, because this bill is about making this clear violation of animal traffic law. If it was clear, it wouldn't need that bill. It says in the bill that the taking of blood from pregnant mares will be illegal. That's why we need some adjustment of the law, because I think the operation as such is not in itself an obvious violation of law. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator would agree that this is why the bill is presented.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u69	A respectable president. No, I can't agree now. Senator. I appreciate the answer because I know a little bit more. This activity is not authorized. Rather, it is based on some authority that includes the role of this enterprise as a scientific basis. So it's not linked to clean, smart laws on animal travel. It has come to pass, and it is clear that in spite of the image we saw - and what we saw. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson noted earlier that these representatives of the Animal Protection Association were invited to take photos of a different nature, but this has, unfortunately, not happened. I was just getting a message from an animal traffic agency that it was not true, that they would never have received such an invitation. Unfortunately, it is. It doesn't change the fact that now it's being done, and let's just assume that it's done as beautiful as possible, which I don't quite know how it's possible, but it still has to be forced. She's untainted, her head has to be tied, this vein needs to be picked up, and she needs to be pumped five litres of blood, and it's done once a week, eight weeks at a time. It is also known that the foetal growth hormone is being obtained, so it is of the nature that it cannot be good for the foal either. But besides all this, I'm gonna tell you what. Because he's been talking about bacon, that it's absolutely true that this morning I went to the Cron, and I had a bacon letter from Ali, and I have to admit that I put it back on the shelf and thought to myself, " I'll never buy bacon again. ' But there's a different story. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u70	Madam President. First, I'm just gonna celebrate. A senator is finally making his way to the pumpkin car. [[Up front.]] I think it's good to be there. As to whether this is a violation of animal success law, I just quote the report, by permission of the President: The current right to use is far from protecting over [...] blood flow. This is not clear enough in violation of current rights. That's why this bill needs a bill. I think that's just the point.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u71	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking you for this great deal, and I'm going to allow myself to give a nice talk that has taken place here. We've been through many areas discussing this bill as a matter of course. paritaprevir Sæland hareland brought us here. Madam President. I'm going to allow myself to change my role, and now the botanist and cyclist are going to talk a little. To be said, the person here is educated as such, although I haven't. This has brought much pressure on the horses. What is the basic nature of the horse? Was he born to be on a horse's rent? Was he born to be a horse? Or was he born to be a vampire? In the ground, the horse is a refugee. Most of the mammals we sell are in the ground of refugees. You can understand the difference between a refugee and a predator: a wolf is a predator. A horse is a means of flight, and it needs to be trained in a certain way. And no matter how we do it and whether we call it forcedness or what, it's the basic nature of the horse that he's a fugitive. If the horse is not tamed, it keeps its shallow nature. Regarding the autologous blood collection and the discussion here, it is very important that we keep in mind that the manifestation of the universe not long ago in regard to very poor treatments when blood was taken to a certain town is completely incomprehensible. At the beginning of this discussion, I answered a storyteller, Sæland Goad, who asked her if it was absolute, if it was just that. She said no. It's my opinion that this is not absolute, and I think most of us who have discussed the matter know that it's an aberration we watched there, a very bad variation that can't be justified. An announcement from the company of Iseka shows that a certain mera farm has been taken away from the welfare agreement held between the farmer and Iseka, the contract was canceled. It's always like that when we're handling cattle, and what. paritaprevir In his speech, Haraldur the son of Benediktsson was very impressed that the distance is increasing between us who live in our farms day by day and day. In the past, most youths went to rural areas, but that time has long passed. What we may find to be a natural treatment of a charm, and a bad one. The senator spoke, e.g. When the sheep is put on the back end and she cut, I don't think she's asking for it, but we do, and we don't think we're going to treat her badly. We can go on like this. In the beginning, in creation, the cattle have some purpose, but they are always refugees. That role is to have one or two offspring each year, and then man has applied it over time. We have to look at things like that. Regarding the fact that foal is bad for every year, it is fundamentally instinctive. It's natural for all mammals, i.e. rudiments and other animals; I'm not going to liken the man to this, naturally having a child once a year. [[Yes, yes, yes...]] Does the bloodletting have a bad effect on the mares or the mares? Science says no. I read reviews from animal doctors who sent in a review of the case the last time it was delivered that discussed a veterinarian student who performed a test of flesh in his masterpiece. The eggs were followed, however, and the foals were followed. There was no apparent difference between a horse's blood and her foal, and just a regular horse strike. So, according to this, it doesn't seem very high - Excuse me, President, that I always say mare but not mares - but it doesn't seem that her life is being damaged by the transfusion, much less the offspring. I started my talk by discussing natural environment and natural nature. Suppose a mare goes to blood five or eight times. Each blood count takes about 10 to 15 minutes. If she went eight times, she'd be at that booth 80,100 minutes. Besides, she's just free in the fields. Because we were just going to love it just now - we have to look at all the sides of the situation. The horses do not necessarily ask for travel, with a scale of 71⁄28 billion or anything. It is always for us that we keep the beast to decide what to use it for. But we must always try to do so as well as possible so that it will not happen to those who keep the beast, as it did to those whom the whole world watched the other day. There's a key in this. We can think back and forth. This has been reported to be 2,200 to 300 million. K. Walking to farmers. Let's say there are 100 farmers in this, 3 million for a sheep farmer is a lot of money. Let's get this straight. That's a lot more than that. That's quite good. But it can, e.g. Is it possible that this same sheepfolder, who may hold 40 to fifty, or even 50 blood - spillers, could be taking tourists to the back of the country? I know a lot of these situations where men do both. The transformation that has taken place in one year at the Book of Horse Prayer, from where did it come from? Is it just the public opinion or the discussion that has developed? We don't see that on the numbers of horses exporting. We must remember that we have been taking blood out of mares for 40 years. We probably never sold more horses out than we did this year. The sale of horses has increased dramatically, i.e. ... horsewagons. I know a lot so everything's sold. Of course, the quality of their prayers is always improving, yes, well done there. If we're going to keep doing this, this bloodbath--and I think it's very good that we're taking this discussion here, okay? paritaprevir Inga Sæland, I think it's very good--then it's very important for men to look to it; I'm going to use the phrase to raise jobs, and it's not to refer to a basketball coach who used that word. But when I talk about raising a robbery, I also mean we have to make a requirement for those who practice this farming to do it well. There have been many speculations during the last few days and a last doubt as to whether it would be inappropriate to make the mares alloy and the like, and I think it would be very reasonable. I've been in this kind of blood transfusion myself, even though I didn't do it myself. In that town, the mares were all glamorized. There they brought some 30 mares into the booth, all brought in by the farmer. They weren't angry, but they walked in there. Yes, they were booming, and then they were abated and removed from the blood. The foal was just waiting. Then we must also keep in mind, no matter how it feels, that when you take mares with a colt from the field, some group, I don't talk about what was in this video where there were probably some 100 mares together in a group and some goads with--it knows everybody who's been around has a horse that will be all wrong. But the smaller the group, the better the relationship, the better the situation. Part of it is, in order to achieve this kind of thing in a good way, that men should prepare the mares. That's key. We've discussed this to be the right amount of about 2 billion in exports this way made by Iseka. There are 200 to 300 million farmers. There are those who do this, the blood collections, the vets, and others. Icezak's office is working about 40 employees, half university educated. Then we can ask ourselves, " What is morally right in selling hormones to increase the amount of bacon produced, such as in winter? ' paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson came in earlier. But the requirement is always what we producers and food producers are facing: We are trying to produce less expensive food. It's part of this, and what. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson was impressed by the way and what challenge we face always pure. We always have to weigh. I thought why. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson meets his head a little bit earlier, since we'll discuss it here, about where we understand the difference between: What's expensive? We can seriously disagree about what it is, but the bill is natural that bloodletting is expensive. It's not today for me to know if it's the right thing to do. That's just my sincere opinion. Even if I do not feel the same way. Sæland Then I regret being called an animal addict or something like that. I'm just a different person, and I think it's a good idea to do things this way. If you don't, I thank you for your excellent and informative conversation. This is also an incentive for all of us here in this hall to keep an eye on and participate in the discussion of how we are developing agrienvironment schemes as a whole.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u72	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his fine speech. And, yes, I respect his opinion, and it's not surprising to me. They are similar to what we heard during springtime. However, I'm surprised to learn that he refers to the reviews that appeared in spring. I'd like to ask him if he didn't expect our discussion here today and our public opinion to even lead some of these individuals to give us a little different comments now that the matter is being presented. Another thing that caught my attention, which reminded me of this sensuous image of Icek's when the bloodmers almost seemed to float on wings to be sucked out of blood: A senator for the mares to walk there, 30 of them, and he just chased the farmer into the booth and something like that. I'm asking why. Senator: Are these tamed mares that are involved here? Because this cannot be done against wild mares with foals. It says it's natural. It is also the other thing, that when it comes to talking about the real purpose of the animal and pointing to horses on a ride or such, that might not be in the exact service, I ask why. Councilman: lay down. A senator uniformly took a blood count and tied it up and pumped it into blood, as well as having a horse to ride? Are we there yet? Senator? We are primarily trying to protect the animals from this evil treatment. And this multi-nulled image is, hopefully, not an absolute estimate of the way the marshes are treated. But it is in nature that this is not to be done beautifully.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u73	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer, and the questions from what? paritaprevir Sæland Howil. That was a few questions, and I'm hoping I'll remember some of them. But if we start with those 30 mares I was telling you about, when they walked into the booth, I also said that the farmer had crushed them and dragged them into the booth. Let's get this straight. The difference between stringed horse and horse tail is amazing, i.e. on horses and horses that are tamed for ride or who know only the presence of mules and tatters. That's what I was referring to. For information and more on what I was trying to explain here that the horse's basic nature is not to get fucked, their basic nature is wild in the fields. We humans took the horse to ourselves, made it a domestic animal, and decided what role it would play. I don't share my mind. A senator says that bloodletting is expensive. That was just fine in my speech earlier. I'm just not there to think it's an animal if it's right, so they say. I hope I've answered everything as well. A senator asked about. I'm sorry for that in advance if I haven't.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u74	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I'd like to ask him straight questions. A senator because the president of Iseka was present in the blood collection of one of the towns mentioned in the video on this zoo? I knew what it was. A member of the council that he was there entirely of his own free will and totally in a state of affairs? There he was, not tore up any mares following him joyfully into the booth to be taken out of blood. Right away. A senator mentioned earlier that men who have been taken from blood even up to eight times, as we know, a total of five litres, and their foals are standing in the exact same place as normal mares that have not had to endure it, I just want to ask them a question. A senator: Is there any evidence he can provide? Because it's totally contrary to what I've got to know, absolutely contrary. It says itself, if I had thought, just for anyone, that when the blood of the mother of her pregnancy has already been emptied, it must have an effect on her offspring. It's just a matter of nature. I'm asking why. Senator, where do I get these files?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u75	A respectable president. The reviews of the case at the last legislature show that there was a masterpiece and research in this field. So what? A senator can only review the reviews it presents. [[Up front.]] That's where it comes out, so it's just in the way. It's always this way that when this kind of thing is done, we must also remember how far the mares are. It is a natural fit, and then it is given just when it happens. Then she's making the growth hormone. This does not happen in the late stages of pregnancy, which happens in the early stages of pregnancy, when it is right to do so. Then it's done.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u76	A respectable president. I'd like to point out at the beginning of the reviews that come in spring that I'm afraid to bet my whole life that the people who sent envelopes in us will not send back the same reports. That's even. Because they didn't understand the bill then, but I promise they'll understand now. Hv. A senator said to blow, if I remember correctly. I don't think it's possible to compare. But I'd like to ask you why. A senator wrote about what he said in his talk, that mares were inherently born to keep a colt once a year. He also mentioned that the horse's basic nature is to be wild, but we have a natural horse and use it as a horse. Again, though, in terms of the natural nature of a mares once a year, the aim of animal protection laws is that animals can display their natural behavior. It is in my mind that the plasma from the mares, to reach the growth hormone, is a gross intervention in this intrinsic behaviour. There's no other way to look at it. It is instinctive that a foal should be taken and when the mares are cast, it is a rough procedure for the blood-staining of the animal to obtain the growth hormone needed to grow. It is in my mind a violation of animal protection laws as they are correctly interpreted, a violation of the law's goals. I know it's authorised and all, but it's a gross offense. Not only is the horse's life affected but it is also a double risk; it is a violation of the well - being of the wild beast, the pendant mares, first and second, a double offense against the unborn foal. It's perfectly clear to me. But I'd like to ask you why. A senator: How can it be instinctive to have a colt once a year and not to violate the aim of animal protection? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u77	A respectable president. These are legal questions, and now I'm not a lawyer like the one on a speaker before me, okay? Ármannsson I don't know exactly how to answer that. But the short answer I would consider to be, and it's just what I think, that it is reflected in what I said before, that the effect of taking the blood from the mares at this time seems to have a negligible effect on her life and the life of what she is feeding, i.e. The colt. Presumably, I assume it is. In many respects, it seems quite likely that this is the case. It is instinctive, with all the mammals or domestic animals we know, and with wild mammals we also know, having one to two offspring each year. That's probably why, huh? A senator, that the blood transfusion, which is likely to have a very small impact on her life, has been heard of by e.g. For the third time, blood produces more mares. These are the answers of the scientists who are working on this project.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u78	A respectable president. I want to ask you another question. Senator. He mentioned the sheepfolds that could be so much better, and of course, the prohibition will be not good for the 119 farmers it will touch. But count 'em why. A senator's interest in these 119 farmers, some of whom engage in other farming, like sheep, outweighs the interests of those affected by blood, i.e. The image of Iceland, the image of the Icelandic horse, even the travel service, Iceland as food production, etc., apart from being an animal and resisting the well - being of the female and the unborn foal, and not being morally justified? Of course, it is important to improve the damage that the State will bring to them, these 2,200,300 million, 207 million, but does he believe that these interests should outweigh the interests I mentioned?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u79	A respectable president. Hv. Ármannsson Just before he asked, "What are the benefits of considering and who is to be weighed? " It was asked about Iceland's image, and then I wondered, " What is the definition of who she is? We will ask ourselves that question. Should we get the farmers to do something else? As a farmer, I'm a sheep farmer, I've heard this phrase a lot, just do something else. And yes, I did, but not everyone can do something else. Some live under the circumstances of their own living to have much land for which they can serve. [[The president calls.]] So it is very difficult to answer what the benefits are and what is less important.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u80	A respectable president. I'd like to thank those who have discussed this matter here today, and specifically spoken it. It's been an interesting discussion, and I'm going to admit that I'm having a bit of a problem with this case. I'm taking it for granted. I hope that this will not be one of the cases that will fall asleep somewhere on a committee but that will be treated properly at the council. Well, let's start with the fact that it's a completely unpleasant animal experience we saw in this video. I don't understand what those guys that were around were thinking or doing. I scratch very much in my head because MAST has not been able to get around this in his formal surveillance but that mediamen coming outside and driving around the country in a few months met up with this kind of activity. That fact bothers me a little bit. I believe, however, that people in general think of rural areas, and those who now keep animals take care of their animals. I have a little difficulty developing a reasonable view of whether this is a moral defense industry against pigs, i.e. to increase their growth. Many pointed out that it might be in a gray area. Then I feel that this great, long, deep silence of the company, which has been a bit behind a press release and is a little late to break up a contract with this company that was under the blood supply we saw in the video. But I noticed. paritaprevir Þórarinn Pétursson spoke of this as a complete deviation. So I ask: Can we be sure that this is a unique variation when, as I described earlier, a food clinic sees nothing in its own surveillance, but there's a polycenter outside, driving around the country, falling straight into this kind of activity?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u81	A respectable president. I appreciate the question from what? paritaprevir - Sigmur Guðmundsson. Now I don't know where 119 towns are. I may know about 80 of them. Can I be sure it's a unique anomaly? No, I can't be. I'm sorry. Senator. I can't answer things differently than that, but I can't be sure it's a unique variation. But I respect those who make this happen--yes, certainly it was very late in the ass, I must say, to get this announcement this morning that this deal has been canceled, and that may not be an accident, because this case came on the program here today. But on the other hand, I believe that this debate that has taken place in this room and in society makes it possible for people to start thinking about what they're doing and where these abnormalities are present, they'll just be pulled out. It must be that way if these activities are to be maintained. Then, as I mentioned earlier, people must raise jobs and demand even more of those who practice this type of farming, whether in this type of farming or in someone else.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-08-7.u82	A respectable president. Thank you so much for the answer. Maybe I'll just dig down what I mentioned earlier. I hope there will be a discussion here and this proposal at least in order that there will be some sort of evaluation of the surveillance role and the surveillance capacity of the Food Agency at this time. Then I am also referring to other matters that we, of course, know about as well as from the discussion. I think that is only fitting in view of the growth of this matter. Then I can't afford to mention, too, because there have been times when this is a bit of a matter of producing less expensive food, that there are many other ways in Iceland to produce less expensive foods that might be supported, e.g. When discussing customs and agriculture as a whole. It's good to keep it up, too, during the discussion. The production of less expensive food cannot be a point of elimination when we are considering the best way to transport and farming in general.
