ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u1	To answer, travel, industrial, and innovation ministers, transport and local government ministers, Environment and Resource Ministers and Education and Culture Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u2	Mr. President. Today exactly 140 days have passed since the end of the day. The head of the advance party came up a little steep, under the direction of the prime minister, and cried out: Business, employment, employment. He said that the nation is in the midst of war in the days of crown virus, and our main answer to it is to create employment. Of course, this made many promises, but let us consider just how things were being done today. There are over 26,000 people out of work in Iceland, and the government's budget expected that unemployment would fall only about 1 percent this year. The recent national forecasting of Iceland's bank shows that this will not even be achieved but will be considerably higher in the autumn than previously expected. The same forecast, in fact more measurements, also shows that public investments will be considerably smaller than the government promised. A report by the Industrial Association, released yesterday, revealed a drop score. It considers how little public investments are put into practice. They were not sufficient to meet the cumulative maintenance requirements for the next ten years. Since spring, we have been called in the United States after the state uses a good loan and investment force to attack much more efficient measures, increase the value, create employment, and prepare new exports. Most important of all, provide more support to homes that are the worst out of the crisis. This seems to be the only case with the government. Now it would be interesting to get answers from the highest level. A minister to why no more work is being done in spite of promises of something else. Second, why are public investments not being accomplished?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u3	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for recording this. I think we agree that the solution to the problem we are in is that we create as much employment as possible, both public and public investments. That's what we're doing with a bill that's at the Senate on a tax impulse, both in the current year and next year because of green investments. I agree with what. A senator says that we need to do more than less. We must look to further public investments. It is true that some of the things we were going to start last year, and then we're moving on to this year. This year will be even better than it was planned. For example, at the Road Building, the budget was several billion dollars for last year's work. In fact, that has been true in recent years. I've only discussed it with a few members of the Environment and Transport Committee that when you start to update the set there, i.e. The tablets should be kept in mind that in the five - year transport process, there should be a little more than a rhyme with a five - year financial program. We've been a bit busy having it sort of on the same couple, but I'm on that opinion, and it shows that the road has to have more work to take off the shelf and get into action because the fact is, and I know it is. A senator may agree with me that all kinds of delays, whether in environmental assessments or even in the design, sometimes take action later. It's a loss of the economy and our goal of creating a job. [[The president calls.]] So I think there's one way to deal with this, and we're going to see more projects this year.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u4	Mr. President. Of course, all of the world's environmental pollutants, designs, and preparations were completely prepped when it came to the highest level. Minister made those promises last year. Now, it's just a question of what failed and why it's not a question of more weight. Reykjavíkurburg is taking the lead with a green investment plan, far ahead of the State in terms of the forwardness of public green investments. I've been standing here many times, asking for answers from the highest. A minister to whether he wants to and believes that he does not have to work harder with fellow rural areas in the country so that they can maintain their investment levels because they have historically less than half of the public investments. I wonder, then, if there is still more to do there? And I just ask again, what failed, what drew, what uncertainty factors were that led to our not achieving what was promised?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u5	A respectable president. What was delayed? I think we just have to admit that a few things in our system make it easier for us to make a decision that seems ready for them to start. It's just an experience. When we start looking back to see how we can solve it, one of the things I mentioned here was to have, for example. a little more important in the five-year transport process strategy, but the financial agenda is accurately correlated. It came, for example. Unexpectedly, the Organization decided that Kjalarnesi needs a environmental assessment. That was a new interpretation. It was something we didn't know, and it delayed that part of that project by a few months. So there are logical reasons for some delay. But I think we should just learn from this and be rather prepared for more. I agree with what. A senator and we of the advance team have said that if we don't achieve enough general markets, we need public help to do more. We have, the government, also said in a statement to the locals that we will observe. We will be ready to help so that our rural communities can carry out their legal service. [[The president calls.]] However, the fact is that rural society is very diligent in making investments despite the need to borrow from it as others. [[The president calls.]] But we must also make sure that they can do so in a decent way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u6	A respectable president. On the night of February 1, the army took over Myanmar, considered elections illegal. One of the things the military has done is turn off or turn on the Internet from time to time, so to speak, in order to prevent what they consider undesirable. Then it has come to our attention that in the current law it is a law allowing the Icelandic authorities to stop communication at times of war and to grapple with legal evidence, I have to say that it is rather vague, all the ways in which the person here stands, exactly how times of war is defined, especially this afternoon. However, the change in our community has been made since this law was first set on telecommunication to involve far more and far more of our lives than before, you see, by the Internet. It's not just about phones, radios, things like that, it's about more or less everything we do in life, so it's much more important today than it was in our day. In the bill on the Environment and Transport Committee and State Department at the highest level. A minister is comparable to a law of 1st. 99. g. word for word. It doesn't matter with the law in it or any other time, it's always based on priors. What I'm wondering is whether it's the highest. A minister has thought about whether there is a reason to review this law, this authority, especially the role the Internet plays in the community today, but also what the term "war conditions " can mean in modern society. My time is running out, and maybe I'd better go into it in the second question, but I'd love to hear the highest attitude. Minister to these speculations.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u7	A respectable president. Of course, even together, conditions in Myanmar and various other countries and what we are trying to secure here are quite different. I agree with what. A senator for communications and access to the Internet and all communications, both individual and business, have become far more extensive. Communication depends on their operation and only on normal communication. However, as an armyless nation, we may have been rather concerned that here would come those of us who would use these devices to spread their propaganda and to shut it down, and it is necessary for us as a nation to be able to react and to avoid such a threat from outside. I think me and what. A senator must argue that we need not fear that this will take place within the realm of Myanmar, who has repeatedly ruled by democratic governments. I believe we have these regulations to ensure our position in the face of external threat. A definition of times of war, what it is, I think it would be nice for the Council of Congress to cross over and define into a report so that you do not fear that there is a device there for some strange government in the future to use. I'm not afraid of that. I'd rather view this as a defense against outside threats, and thus we could prevent the mixture of propaganda or the misuse of such factors from affecting our communication with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u8	A respectable president. Now I'm not worried that I'm at the highest. A secretary of transportation will act quickly on this law, but the impossible will be very fast thinking and real if and when the power comes to power, governments that are willing to abuse such power. They do not have to look far; they do not have to look all the way to Myanmar to find such an example. From time to time, a democratic means of power, or at least according to the democracy of every nation, a government that misuses its power and technology, e.g. correspondent in the United States, when Trump came into power. I hope most people here are not afraid of that. But we see developments in Hungary and Poland and elsewhere in which powerism is taking hold of a great deal of strength. And this is always the explanation, the explanation for such obligations, is that the inner state is fighting against a foreign attack. But there is a possibility. Likewise in the face of war. I suppose it was put in a time of the Cold War when the world's wars may not have been simpler than today. Today, the meaning of the term "peacetime " is very unclear. [[The president calls.]] You wonder about such things as the agricultural revolution, the terrorist war, or the like. There are many ways to call a situation of war if the solution is at the hands of the superior authorities. [[The president calls.]] Then I feel that it is important to have as little as possible a law that allows bad governments to misuse such laws. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u9	A respectable president. Same way you did. One senator says that we need to realize that there are not always positive and reasonable governments with people in Iceland and that there may be forces that would want to wield power in a way that we do not realize, but let us recognize, too, that even though we have lived now for some decades without the Cold War and without a war situation like that, we may be able to do so. Of course, we need some kind of authority to respond. It may well be right next to you. Senator. I think it's wise that, at least in a report, men would try to approach what the law is about and thereby limit the ability of those to whom they would wish to interpret in their own interests after ◯behag, forgive the sleigh, President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u10	Mr. President. I'd like to talk to the highest. Secretary of travel for the bill available to the General Assembly at this high-regional park. There are naturally a number of people who are concerned about the situation, since it is about the huge interests of the people of the country in the present and future. There has been a lot of talk about the self-sponsored authority of rural society and nature protection issues in connection with the bill, but at least At the top of the list, there was less discussion about the impact the bill will have on our tourism services. We have always spoken of the importance of the use of our country's resources in a responsible way along with a more efficient nature protection. We want to protect the highlands from this view, not from the people. I think there's a lot of us there. But it has to be said at the same time that there have been many, and the strong voices from a series of tourism providers who consider it, as mentioned in the bill, are roading to the industry. Now, like many other Icelanders, I have been a traveler in national parks abroad. I've enjoyed it a lot. These factors have been compared to what I've experienced at least the best of my knowledge, i.e. Natural protection and the experience of tourists along with the local job structure. I would have thought it was a lucky opportunity for our tourism, but there's something in this case that seems to be in a lot of tourists. This case, the institution of a highland park, is in the government covenant, the highest policy of every government. I'd like to hear from the highest. Travel minister why she believes this is the case when the last year's election season is well passed. Would consultations and cooperation between these schemes, the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of travel, can be anything but a witness? What makes traveling overseers as disagree with them as much as they are if this much discussion and strong criticism are determined from their ranks? And finally, Mr. President, what do you think is the highest. Minister that this bill of the government on highland parks will do for Iceland's tourism?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u11	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator of this inquiry. Of course, there are countless views below. Hv. I'm going to stick with it, although it's also possible to spend a lot of time talking about it from energy efficiency. This case is of magnitude that I don't think it's unusual that your pregnancy is long and it takes even longer than plans are expected. This place is huge. It's a very big decision. This is a lot of conversation with a number of rural partners, a lot of partners, a lot of companies and others who use this large area today, energy companies and others. I've heard a lot of tourists who are so forward on the case, and in others who are not at all. Then there may be just a lot of things that don't quite know how he's going to feel about it, and there's more answers to what this means for him and for his business. We already have a lot of work to do in general when it comes to steering, special disposal, the sharing of limited quality, to form only in the Þingalva peoples, in Lake Bay, and in other places where we already have national parks or areas owned by the State. This afternoon's program is the bill on this patent, which is in my mind a very important matter. They go hand in hand with what it means to make a park. A water supply park is faced with a major project in the distribution. It has come up when the companies are going to take some step that it has been disputed and they have pulled it back. But I believe companies feel that there is a lack of consultation, a lack of clearer answers to what this means for them. And there's always a question about how people experience this balance that needs to be there between the protection plans and the innovations of the National Park. The questions and possibly some suspicion towards the system turn, I think, in part, about that. So if you put it in context to what we will do in the construction, distribution, and other such activities already, regardless of a highland park, you can say, "Are we not enough to wait a little while with the park?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u12	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers for the answers and fully realize that there are other projects on the board of ministers that are related to the highland park, such as energy issues, and they will be discussed without doubt later. But tourism is now in the limelight, especially as a result of the challenges we face because of the Covid article. In the end, this can be divided into two parts, there is opposition to the bill because there is no time to study it or there is a resistance to the bill because it has to be changed in some way. That's kind of what I want to try to get past the highest level. Regarding this particular sector, Minister of travel: What is the request for the rest? I think we're at the highest. Ministers would agree that a national park in Iceland's highlands could become an enormous supply for tourism. So it's about how we just need more time to introduce this bill to the sides? [[The president calls.]] Or is this about some of the need to adapt this bill to the tourism services and thus access to the highlands?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u13	Mr. President. I see in general a great opportunity for Icelandic tourism that the highlands are framed and decided on national parks. I think so. It involves great opportunities, but the way it is done and the way it feels about it matters. It is my personal opinion that I feel all right to think, in view of the discussion of the matter, whether it is possible to take more steps than smaller, which I also feel are just in the spirit of talking about a national park. Of course, setting up such a large national park, so much of the country, needs to be settled, and it is our job to work on it. It is difficult to set up a huge national park if there is a very limited agreement. I'm not going to explain how things develop, but this peace has to be in place. I think we need time. [[The president calls.]] I agree that there are many who have certain ideas about the park, need the answers, and may need more time to study them. [[The president calls.]] It's also part of the pregnancy I'm talking about because I think the thought of national parks in the highlands is good and there's a chance for tourism.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u14	A respectable president. To poor self. Studies show that boys are far more active in laxing themselves than girls in the school system. This was shown in the show Silfr, on February 7 of the past. This statement from a woman about boys is dangerous, and I do not fail to help boys who remain out of our school system. What would have been the reaction to our community if a middle-aged man had said that about girls? Children's affairs should be handled with caution, and we must speak with caution and responsibility for the status of children in the school system and not refer to or have observations that slight children. Children are not making self - examination, but there is something wrong with those who negotiate and do research in this way. A good study of the children's status in the school system and the problems of boys in the school system has been made available in the Sunday morning by the Þorgrímur Þráinsson Þrlinsson of the weekend newspaper. During the interview, it is stated that a group of men have been assigned to study and have submitted ten suggestions. All that happened was that a special working group about girls'well-being was appointed. It also shows that students have to understand 98% words in text in order to get the context and understand the contents. If 34% boys can't read for themselves, it's because the vocabulary is sad. The article Þorgrímur the solutions and reports he came to and has ended up in a drawer, and nothing has been done with the fine work that has been done there. He then points out that students will be alienated from Icelandic if they must immediately learn complex grammar. As the writer of a number of books, he could not say what in the text is a image, a product, a form of tolerance, a original, or a reference, which never depended on him. In the next nine years, this is to be fixed, said the highest. Last night, Minister of Education at Cast Light, helping boys this year. But are you going to put money on it? [[The president calls.]] Are you going to do this now? This year, a minister of education can do something about this matter, but the question is, What is being done now, and funding is being put on? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u15	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for bringing up this fundamental issue, the position of boys, and for dealing with the educational system. Hv. One senator asks, " What are you doing now, and I'm going to review some of the factors that have mattered so much? ' First of all, we have accepted one permission letter across all schools to promote the position of teachers, and it is the teachers who teach their children. These changes were under way for ten years, but they succeeded now two years ago. Second, we have increased the number of teachers by 40% and have special emphasis on young boys in research. That was approved a few months ago. Third, I would like to mention some of the projects that are designed specifically for this purpose. There is one thing in the Western Islands that we are working with Professor Hermundur Sigmundsson, where we are dealing with the position of boys and change the educational system and give us the goal of putting more emphasis on physical activity and basic reading ability. Fourth, I'd like to name a school development team that should specifically discuss this, and we've already started it. Fifth, we have developed a policy regarding children of foreign origin, and of course boys too are there. We know that we need special assistance to these groups, and we already do. But we are also developing a policy toward the future that all children in Iceland will have equal opportunities, and I will focus on that. We have done much already, and we will continue to do even more.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u16	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Education minister for the answers. I'm going to reiterate it. But is that money being put into it? Is it to make sure that there will be no missing funds to handle these issues? Then there is something else I would like to know, and it was during the interview I quoted earlier, and only about 15% of basic school in Iceland forbids cellular use. V.E.G. Education Minister: Is it not time for the use of cell phones in school to be banned? Then there's one other thing: Now Iceland's University is partly fired by gambling addicts. It's under the roof. Education minister, that's all right? Is she willing to arrange for the gambling industry to be funded with money from the state, thus shutting down this rabid college fundraiser to educate young people? Is it not time for compulsive gambling to be a means of education at a university?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u17	A respectable president. Because of the question of whether funds will follow this course - yes, indeed. We're putting hundreds of millions in the process of improving the situation now. We have had a very detailed analysis of how to improve our situation. We've both spent our money, and we're also doing some direct action, as mentioned earlier. We're on an assignment at Flare High School, we're putting money on the country level, we've been putting hundreds of millions of people on the road to further training in the country. All of this will result in such results that we will see that the situation will be much better. We are also talking about measurements that took place a few years ago. When all of this is accomplished, the Icelandic education system will be in the highest order and we will consider equal opportunities for all children.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u18	Mr. President. Last night I listened attentively to an interview at the highest level. One television minister, as mentioned earlier, has a problem with school students and the fact that education is not suitable for boys as well as the fact that more than 30% of boys do not read for their benefit after high school graduation. It was a minister to learn that the education she has proposed was the key to improving this situation. But in high school there's no mention that the education system is not suitable for boys. There's no mention of a special problem with boys' locks. So I want to ask the highest. A minister whether he intends to change the course of the council so that these aspects can be arranged there. Those who have turned in the headlines to what? This very same problem has been raised by the General and Education Committee, where I am seated, and visitors who have visited the Committee. So I must ask if it is, if the key is in education, as a minister made it last night, that she intends to change the course so that there will be a suggestion for a change in this direction. Or was her answer last night alone to drop the dust into the eyes of those who asked? The questioner was naturally one there, and there was no one there to answer, if you can put it that way, so the coverage was quite one-sided. That's why I think there's an urgent need for an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u19	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the inquiry and only reviews education policy and what it's doing. I want less of it. A senator assumes that the future vision of education for the year 2030 goes on to see that we provide an outstanding education for everyone here for the rest of our lives. This is the promise of the council to children and young people, all of them. This is true of boys and girls and of anyone in the community, no matter what. I'd like to name the first place. There's equal opportunities for everyone. It is a study that is appropriate. I'm thinking of just reading it up, with president's permission, and I hope to what. A member of the council has done well in this regard: ▪ Schools and other schools take into account the needs, abilities, abilities, and abilities of each student, working out each student's strengths and interests. Society is obliged to provide the best for the well - being of children and young people and to ensure all the opportunity to develop and prosper on their own terms within the educational system. Of course, it is about boys. But I can also tell you what. A senator says that I am stressing that this is the time for the council. Everything we think can improve current education and how we're thinking about this into the future, so I'm happy to take it. I welcome it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u20	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this answer and yes, it is the purpose of the one here to submit adjustments in this policy. But there is another subject that I also wanted to draw attention to. A group of young people came before the committee that had provided a very interesting review of this policy. That's where we even came from. with no lack of art, lack of job announces, lack of sex education, lack of vitality, saying skills in a wide range of fields. These young people presented their views in a very unscrupulous and careful manner. There was a catch. That's why I have to ask the highest. Minister to see if this will be the case. It's obvious that there's a chapter missing in policy as it looks right now. I reiterate: Is the Minister's thinking changing this policy into the council, or does she want to rely on men like the one standing here to do so for her?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u21	A respectable president. Thank you so much for your cooperation. A senator shows here. I want to tell you what, too. A senator says I've been meeting with these students. What they say is very helpful, and we have decided in the Education and Culture Department to include almost all of these because they are very objective and very needed. We emphasize that keeping the matter right here at the council is the very result of helpful and upbuilding comments that are just taking place right now. I would also like to mention that we are, of course, thinking about the future. We have undergone many dramatic and extensive changes that we have not seen for a long time, and of course we will continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u22	Mr. President. I would like to thank you for the opportunity to initiate this important discussion that I requested to bring in updated goals to meet the next meeting of the United Nations Climate Convention. Then it's not out of the way, since we're standing here, wishing to be the highest. Congratulations on the fact that today, indeed, the goal of the United Nations has finally been published, a year after its initial release. But better is late than never. I must admit, Mr. President, without wanting to magnify myself too much, that I think there had been something to say that a minister had to stand for answers here in the council hall today. Had I known that it would take a special discussion to finally receive the government, I would have asked for it long ago. Let's remember this next time. But since we have updated our goals in front of us, the question that I wanted to ask will be even more urgent. I wanted to hear from the Minister whether Iceland was planning to set out an independent national target for emissions reduction or for the Iceland that, as in the last round, was going to hide behind cooperation with the European Union. A 40% reduction, last round, was made up to 29% of Iceland's contribution to the European Union's common objective. Iceland made a deal. Is it now, Mr. President, to negotiate Iceland from the 55% that the European Union has resolved to achieve a contraction? And keep in mind that 55% of them are compromises with the largest coal addicts in Europe. Iceland is supposed to be able to do much better. Let's just look at our Uncle Norses, who have set up their own national goals of 50-5555% and say, "Because it goes beyond what we are assigned to work with the European Union, we will just fill up into the gap. There is nothing to hide behind the European Union work there. Unfortunately, as I said at the outset, this update year is late and there is time we have to regret, not just because of something, but because it really went down on it. A climate operation program was updated last spring. Based on the old ambition, the update would have taken place, we would have had a better strategy than the one available today about 35% reduction in emissions that the government allows to go beyond international commitments. It is true and true if only the commitments to the European Union, which were decorated. Well, 29% is less than 35%, but 40% was what we always talked about getting. When, then, can you expect a schedule to be updated to reflect the 55% target? That's what we need to hear. And how the up-to-date targets will be reflected in other policy measures such as, for example, in a financial program to be held in a council hall within a few weeks, and will put the box around the scope of the State for the next five years? It's the highest. Environment and resource minister with financial secretary in bringing increased ambitions into the climate program? Or is the secretary of transportation to reevaluate the funding of transport for future years to achieve climate goals? This would have been so much easier if we had had the last year to introduce this new increase in ambition, as it were, because both plans were made on spring afternoons compared to our old ambitions. But in addition, looking to the future, since the Minister will bring a carbon - share bill in 2040, does the Minister not feel the need to establish a goal, according to commitment to the Paris Treaty, for the purpose of a percentage reduction for the year 2030? At all times, governments can compare themselves with the programs they are achieving or not achieving. [[The president calls.]] Having some vision of the 19 years ahead is only considerably less vague than having a clear percentage line for the next ten years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u23	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for this discussion. The updated Iceland's target of climate change was presented by Prime Minister Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, on December 12, 2020, at a summit meeting on the United Nations and Britain, the host of the next meeting of the United Nations Climate Convention. By the end of the year, the majority of the countries returned. Whatever it is. A senator here says that Iceland is a year behind schedule, referring to the vast majority of other countries in the world. As shown in the case of many, the goal for the land was the same. A senator, sent in earlier today and has been published on the climate contract website. There's an Icelandic declaration of increased ambition by 15 percentage points, i.e. 55% reduction in emissions by EU and Norway. In addition to various technical information, you can find in Annexes on Iceland's emissions, sources of emissions, non-carbon objections for 2040, climate change action programmes, climate change impacts, and adaptation to climate change. It is important to discuss only how Iceland's national aims are settled within the framework of the Paris Conference in the light of Iceland and Norway with the European Union and its 27 member countries. So that's what they say Iceland has nowhere, never made a deal down or a bargain. It's simply not right. A senator, and he knows it well. The EU submitted its national objective at the end of 2020, but its individual Member States do not submit their national targets, which Iceland does, as well as Norway. Iceland and Norway decided to aim to join the EU to the lead of the 2015 Paris Convention, which was completed on a formal agreement in about 2019 C.E. The main benefit of such a fleet for Iceland is that we do not have a dual commitment, on the one hand with regard to the international community and the EEA Convention. Iceland has been involved in the EU emission work programme for nearly a decade in accordance with EU legislation. This also means that we have comparable, comparable commitments and the major neighboring kingdoms that are generally counted among the most ambitious and progressive countries in the world of climate. In view of the updating national targets, Iceland is actually quite effective in its current implementation programme. It was updated and strengthened and approved by the government in June 2020. It provides a basis for a long - term recession. As already noted, Iceland's direct responsibility as required by Iceland is expected to achieve a much greater reduction in emissions, in accordance with the current commitment to the European Union. It is changing, so it can be said that with this strategy, we have a good control tool in our hands, which should do something to update our objective, but not all the way. That's a very well-known case. Therefore, it has to be done even more, and this is why Iceland not only announced an updated ambition this December but also stated that further measures should be made to achieve new goals, which may call. on increased donations. The next financial program will therefore show up. According to new climate laws, measures of action on climates should be reviewed no less frequently than every four years. In practice, the schedule of action has been continuously re-evaluated for all this terms. Some activities have been updated from the last complete review of last year, e.g. F-gas. It went further than the plan of action expected. We are expected to have new European guidelines this year and based on them, the need for an overall review is set out to ensure that many measures will be implemented and expanded. I believe it is right to establish goals for non-carbon, and I have presented a bill to fix what is now being discussed. I think it's a big step if the bill is to be walked here at the Council. At the same time, we're working on a long-term non-carbon policy framework in 2040 and I don't rule out legalization of target targets in the presence of these forms. In terms of legalization of certain greenhouse gas emissions targets, I feel that this can be possible, as many countries have done, including the British. A projection program for long-term targets is being developed in the Ministry, and they are in hand with long-term policy barriers to non-carbons, which I mentioned earlier. Already, some 29 countries have produced such evolutionary programs. It's a little different than this, but we're working at the same time as we're working on the 2040 non-carbon policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u24	Mr. President. Of course, I rejoice to participate in a discussion about the climate and thus have a welcome chance to introduce to you the solutions of the Central Party in these matters. I would like to point out that our objective in these matters must be realistic and trustworthy. It is not good for the subject itself if governments are going to produce fireworks with unrealistic goals, make for self - centered political purposes. The matter is more serious than that. I'll let others mention and discuss institutions, management groups, committees, stage photos, and the like, about administrative matters and all kinds of office work. I realize that to try to overcome the problems related to global climatic issues, there are many eight things that need to be looked at, and there is no one solution that will address the problems. But here I intended in my first speech to deal with one solution, where Iceland and I can do quite a bit of work if a coordinated effort could be made, see the development of forestry. This is a solution to carbon binding. This is certainly not the only solution to these matters, but it is an essential step. In the fall of the year, I proposed a synopsis that the Allied Council conclude to hide an environmental and resource minister's plan to make four times a year new forest development over the next five years, from three million planted plants to 12 million. The plan will be carried out in cooperation with governments, farmers, the wood industry, deforestation partners, employment and the public, and aims to multiply the forest binding of carbon, to create new jobs in scattered areas, and to increase over the long term valuables, career opportunities, and land quality. The development of new forests, new forests, is one of the most important, efficient natural actions available to the world in the battle against climate problems.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u25	A respectable president. I take my heart to the words and challenges of this debate that Iceland should set its own goals, its own national goals, and not follow other countries, in my opinion, the European Union or the European Union as far as we have been doing recently, and there are plans to continue. Iceland enjoys a very special position when it comes to energy and climate, so I don't get tired of pointing out that what we've been doing here recently, including, is very unhappy. by providing tax appeals for the import of biofuels to $3 billion annually, on $33 billion, tax appeals to foreign manufacturers. And what does this do for the disposal of this country? Well, emissions may decrease by 0.4%. It's not in the nose of a cat, if it can be used as an expression. But the cost of this operation is up to $3 billion. At the same time, there are plenty of honest jobs in this country, including some of them. the recovery of land areas and other factors that could be covered with much less cost, which results in much greater success. That's what matters. I just want to emphasize it in this discussion and the general climate issue that it applies only to other lawsuits: The funds of taxpayers need to be handled well, well treated with financial funds. They're not doing it at the moment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u26	Mr. President. I want to thank you for this need and good discussion. The global warming is the greatest challenge in our day, climate change, and distress that are already faced in large areas of the earth, the only one we have. Therefore, the aim of the Icelanders on climate needs to be clear with a national programme that works. Even if it's safe to look closer, it's not an Icelandic problem. We live and move daily in the global discussion, rapidly changing, and a new, new concept. One of them I throw on the air as climate refugees, people who flee their homes because of natural disasters, because of climate change disasters. It's a form of many people. Mr. President. These are the dark aspects that we must face. We are moved to respond. We, the whole human race, can do that together. We have shown this in the current pandemic. A disease threatens the entire inhabited earth. We accept considerable sacrifices, enormous effort, and massive expenditures because it is a tangible disease that is being organized against and over. We need to respond to a more efficient climate problem in the same way that it needs to be done rapidly and on a global scale. This is no longer the case, and it is absurd that postponement is the worst. Right now, in the building of our employment, we need to increase the number of green steps, e.g. ... witha realgreeninvestmentas we have suggested in the United States. Mr. President. The change of green is not only beneficial in fighting global warming. You see, they turn out to be a good bisness. In neighboring nations, indicators from companies in green activity point up just one way - upward. In this way, we have the responsible ways that we equal people are making clear. All units are made clear. Mr. President. It is urgent to recognize the realities of life and to base on scientific knowledge. Let's be realistic, but let's be optimistic. Let's look to the future with green eyes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u27	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for this discussion that is important. Although the questions raised during the discussion may have been quite narrow and may have been fully answered at the outset, it is important that the discussion be taken only in larger context. As noted, the updated objective of Iceland's climate is about 55% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. In a judicial court of law, it is so proposed that a bill intended to establish in law the goals for Iceland's non-carbonization in 2040, as stated in the government's treaties. I am very pleased with these goals, and we are in a unique position to reach them. We have real opportunities for that. Will is all it takes. The results are determined by the way they work together, as in so many other things; the cooperation of governments and professional life, the cooperation of different occupations, the cooperation of governments, and the university on innovation, domestic cooperation, and professional life. There's a lot of ambition in my career that I have faith in turning us very far away from these goals, just the kind of work I'm now on a flying trip. So I take just a few examples from my hometown, let's point out that over the last few years, the production has made tremendous success in reducing emissions and aims to do even better. It has become one of the main executives in economic management. There is also wood - building work on the protein binding of carbon. And there is professional life in this area because it knows that this is the basis for a market access.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u28	A respectable president. I would especially like to thank a person for this important discussion. The failure of the government on climate matters is crystal in the chapter of updating national goals. That they have since been delivered to this very day, a significant surprise, is likely due to this discussion and, of course, is especially vivid to this government. Here again, we see how the bus is drawn into important situations and regularly awakens the government from sleep. A positive result is that Iceland is involved in reaching 55% of the decline in contaminated emissions by 2030. It is also positive to see that most of our goals are taken directly from the European Union, which has been responsible in this regard. It is good that we follow their example. However, the aim of achieving these targets is totally unknown when total emissions in Iceland fell by 15% between 1990 and 2016 and then increased from 2016 to 2017. The steps the government has taken during the election season have not been large enough, it must be recognized. There, detoxification of a private market has played much larger than governments's actions. So the job life is doing much and can do much more. It was therefore strange, too, that it was not expected that the survival of industry itself would be expected in the government's climate action programme, which was published in the midyear. With the development of updated national goals, the government has reason to update its implementation in accordance with its new objective. Then she can use this opportunity and update her actions too, drawing private market, working life, and the people of the country with her on this necessary task with green motivations and other means. These persons seem to find it easier to make the actions talk themselves. Job life makes action talk as long as the government itself only speaks in this case as it is in others.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u29	A respectable president. Thanks to you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for this discussion and minister. This goal in percent, 55% - these are words, numbers, and in itself words and numbers that don't matter. It really matters what we are going to do in these matters. What will we do, and with what result? We must take this action quickly, and we must immediately review it to sell clean energy to the environmental wastes of Europe. I agree with what it said here that we should be independent, not chasing contaminated tails of the European Union, we should make our own personal decisions. One of the things we could do and need to consider is greenhouse farming. A review of the gardening prayer last summer was a step in the right direction, but further action is needed. The pot was grown to 200 million a year. We cannot continue with a system that reduces the impulse to increase production. We continue a potting system with a fixed volume down each year. That's when the story just gets bigger until the pot runs out. A group of people have provided a bill for further action in behalf of garden farmers. We suggest that, rather than subsidizing an amount in advance each year, the total cost of transport and distribution of electrical energy to garden farmers should be paid for the next four years. At the same time, half the costs for the build-up of the diffuser system, such as by repair and home nerves, should be dropped. But there is more to paying off energy. The structure of the distribution system needs to be established as well. We know, for example. Now, and a woman's day to rise, that there are not even flowers in the land. Is that not a disgrace to us? We cannot even produce the needed flowers. Rather, we need to put supertoll on the imported flowers that have been moved here to a country with contaminating pollution and cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u30	Mr. President. I didn't really believe my ears just then when I heard it. Environment Ministers maintain their justification that although Iceland had messed up its affairs, all the other countries would have done the same. I think that the species and species of life that died out last year are truly grateful for this primastin justice. Since the start of the season, I have regularly asked how to reduce emissions from the available devices. It's absolutely no problem for politicians to promise that the rest and this will happen after nine years, end up with a total of three terms until then. There is reason to ask, " Why can't these goals be determined so that they can't be scaled down as the date draws near? ' There is also reason to wonder about the situation today. 30% of the time from the beginning of the season until date appears in 2030. Have we reached 30% contractions since the ideal period? You would think so because the other way is by trying to sort it out somehow on the last records or perhaps subtract and give yourself a discount. It's been said for almost four years that there's a lot of ambition in the plans. The plants were late. They come in a lot, so somehow they're kept in the skirt of the European Union. Surely we can do better than that. It's kind of too much nonsense to think this government will somehow solve the situation. I'm afraid we've seen that this does not exist.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u31	Mr. President. We are part of the North, and here are faster climate change than anywhere else. The proposed climate goals are good and satisfying, no matter how some form of criticism passes. We're gonna go to at least... 55% of emissions, and I emphasize the words ◯ at least ◯ The speed of carbon binding in stages prior to the year 2040 is to be accelerated, and this is to bring climate issues and contractions into the developing community, which is very important. Mr. President. The government is in this case the manager, so we can call it the director, and we certainly invest. But the government is not the sole responsibility; it is not the sole executive in these matters. There are other actors and other responsibilities. I mean my rural society with plans, I mean companies with plans, and I mean general participation by people of all ages and from all walks of life. If people come together, all these parties, we can do well over 55%, and of course that's our goal. The government has also had special conflicts, or major conflicts, I would like to call, regarding waste, waste policy and the implementation of a process, a system of irrigation, and the economy. There's a policy on sustainability. The circuit economy is actually the basis for a sustained resistance to human warming. In all of this, we are in a key position at the General and should approach it in a positive way, stand up to us, and show a solidly solidarity rather than criticize them, but do not give the government credit for what it does.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u32	Mr. President. I discussed my first talk about the suggestions the Central Party has presented here at the council as solutions to climate change. There I discussed my proposal for a large - grown forest for carbon binding that would benefit us Iceland enormously, not just on one occasion, but in many ways. By means of the four - fold forestry, we would be making a big contribution in climates. I will continue my second speech and use it to introduce to us the practical solutions that we have repeatedly pointed to but speak to the rather faint ears of government officials, especially on the left side. In this second speech, I will discuss the solution of the Central Party on the Waste matter. As we are well known, we Icelanders have largely ruined our garbage, but recent waste exports have increased and are projected to increase, simply because major threats are closing. It is contaminated and releases large amounts of greenhouse gases. We are therefore faced with the fact that waste exports will be much worse in the years ahead. That's not acceptable, Mr. President. It's just dirty to send our garbage to Europe. It is followed by emissions from transport across the sea, and since the incineration itself, and at last we have seen unskilled TV shows that part of Western waste ends with garbage dumps in Africa or other Third World countries. We're supposed to burn our garbage here in this country as much environmentally as possible. That's how I've made a suggestion in the last three councils to seriously consider building a high-tech garbage dump so that we can solve our own garbage problems. New dumps around the world have become so perfect that they are far environmentally environmentally different from, for example. In addition, prices and energy production. This is the future, and it is an important part of the climate discussion. Of course, this is not a single systemic solution; we must also improve and increase the classification, recycling and recycling, but it is an important and vital step in avoiding environmental waste. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u33	Mr. President. Last December, the Prime Minister declared on behalf of the Iceland government that the Icelandic government's goals had been updated to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. As most of us know, there is now a 55% reduction in 2030 emissions compared to 1990, but not 45%, as has been the goal of the past few years. This is good and necessary, but at the same time we are not following the European Parliament, who wants to reduce emissions by 60% or we are at the top of the Commission of the EU, as many other European countries and neighboring nations have done with ambitious aims. Britain is heading for a 68% reduction in emissions, Sweden to a 63% contraction, and Denmark has a target of about 70% emissions reduction compared to 1990. What's the situation here? It is still yet to introduce Iceland's actions to achieve this new target and to update climate action programme, still to introduce and schedule Iceland's activities for new targets. To examine the real impact of such goals, total emissions of Iceland need to be viewed by land use. A much more radical step must be taken. Last December, I asked the highest. Prime Minister when to update the current climate action programme in relation to an updated goal. Sadly, the reply was disappointing, for she said that it would be only in financial planning or in over four or five months later. What have we been waiting for? It needs to descend here and provide much clearer and more strengthening support to update our activities and measures in climate change. Another thing I'd like to stress is that it's out of control with the severity and weight of the climate that they are on the hands of one government or the current government class. [[The president calls.]] The need for a change in political consultation on the focus of Iceland on climate change at the next UN climate conference in Glasgow, held in November 2021, the meeting is scheduled to set the course to the next ten years. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u34	A respectable president. One of our time's greatest challenges is climate crisis. Most people want to do their part to deal with it and make sure that Iceland meets its commitment to climate. In the year 2040 C.E., the government has not caught up in this, setting clear goals on noncarbonization with the government's policy of action. The will is praiseworthy, and there is general agreement on the goals, but to achieve them there is still the need to make enough money. The risk is that the government forgets the collection of so - called green taxes, and they actually become extra income instead of the collection being a direct object with it, i.e. to produce the desired effectiveness in climates and then to be decomposed. In view of the fact that neither consumers nor producers need to carry all the costs that society receives from too much greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere, governments deal with climate crisis. Therefore, it is essential that the government take action to meet Iceland's commitments in good cooperation with business life. The measures that the State can take include: Sobriety, green taxes, and indignities are indeed being done. This could all be my word, but this is really what Iceland's Business Council writes in its own report. To come up so far into the stocks of the day and talk about the lack of professional life on this journey - what nonsense. We will have no success in climates if we are not accompanied by professional life and just taking those steps. It's in this fight. Government activities as well as economic representatives on climate and green solutions have been established. There is a declaration of the government's will and of the major part of the Icelandic financial market, which describes the willingness to use funds to sustain sustainable development and to take into account the international commitments of Iceland. We're gonna do what we're gonna do. The Economic and Business Committee is a guide for a bill that aims to promote private investments in the sectoral sector with special emphasis on environmentally friendly property and to promote environmental sustainableity. We certainly are on the right track, but I am so glad that we are taking this discussion here in the Hall of Congress, and we even discussed it more often. It is a unique opportunity that awaits us now, in the situation that we are in after the marina, to build a powerful, environmental life, and I believe that we will succeed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u35	We've got a time registration system working on us, but we have two-minute time limits.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u36	A respectable president. As I mentioned in my first speech, the success in climates is determined by the cooperation of many, and the key role of professional life is the work. Thus, green incentives for industry and for green innovations, which the government has stressed, are important, but, of course, as much initiative as comes from businesses all over the country. There are, for example. Great news is that the development of technology that will lead to a mutation in reducing carbon output from aluminium plants, the development of so - called inactive electrodes. Its use results in cessation of carbon emissions from acidic electron analysis. This technology is expected to be useful as early as 2024, which could reduce emissions of carbon dioxide in Iceland by up to 30%. All cultures bind carbon in vegetation, as has been the case in this discussion. In addition, growth in vegetation results in a small or fragmented land from carbon emissions into the atmosphere. Thus, in the years that follow, a huge increase in land travel to carbon binding can be expected. Then the question arises: Will a land used for the carbon binding of forests be owned by farmers or anyone else? If properly held, rural residents may have new opportunities to use the land they have controlled for carbon binding, thus launching additional supplies under their own means of survival. Woodarnyts need to move forward here on land as well. There are already opportunities to increase the sustainability of individual settlements and thus of society. I recently examined e.g. edative centre which is environmentally friendly and can ensure sustain sustainability and be part of the economy. There is a bill for the Council that leads to a European rule of carbon dioxide degradation. If this is approved, the Carbifx technology will be used to offset emissions according to the European commercial system.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u37	A respectable president. In a climate - related operation program, there is a so - called puny tax. It is estimated that the amount of taxes will be 15 K. Each kilogram of the spread of public waste. Such taxes are consumption taxes and consumption taxes are relatively worst for those with limited resources, i.e. Poor people. If these taxes are to be treated, at least to ensure that it is secured and not to hang on to those mentioned among the hands. Instead of punishing poor people for polluting them, we should encourage them to recycle. You might, for example. Do this by installing reimbursement for more types of waste than just disposable bottles of drink. The aim and policy of climate is, as I've said before, fine, but that's what we need. Often needed, but now is necessary. Snow floods, asherbs, hot record, cold records, violent weather, deforestation of forests, forest fires; that is the manifestation of climates. And forest fires. We Icelanders always think we're gonna get out of this, but we're gonna get there. Are we ready? Have we made sure that once and if there's a forest fire in Iceland, we can handle it? Have we built a fire chamber yet? Have we arranged to be sure that forest fires do not destroy apartments and people's dwellings? Don't you think it's time we broke up our sleeves and set these things right?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u38	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion we've had here today. Because climate change measures are much technical, as experience has already shown, the level of climate control is very narrow. It is, in fact, amazing that more than three years after the Supreme Court. Minister's office is that still in place. Yes, all countries were killed every year to return updated targets to the climate contract a year ago, just like Iceland, except Norway, who is actually in the same position in Iceland. And yes, many countries did not pass the new deadline that was last December. However, all European countries could deliver at that time except Iceland. This is a fundamental step in the battle of man - made climate change, as well as a core document in all government policies, and Iceland fell in two hours last year. It says this about the priority that has been put on strengthening the management of climate in the last three years. If I understood the Minister's right, I don't even want to update the election plan. They want to keep good ideas for a campaign. People here have been accused of higher criticism by speaking of the fact that Iceland simply has a goal to be met because it is not found in up - to - date national goals. [[Up front.]] It simply says that Iceland is going to be a unit with the EU, which is good and blessed, but it is not supposed to take off Iceland's responsibility to deliver its own percentage to the Paris Treaty. 40% at the last national objective was dosed to 29% towards the EU although the Minister may feel uncomfortable calling it that. [[The president calls.]] Contract negotiations with the EU led to Iceland's receiving 11 percentage points off emissions targets. [[The president calls.]] 55% is not presented as Iceland's independent target in emissions. [[The president calls.]] It's just wrong when it comes to it. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson claims otherwise.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u39	Timeout is two minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u40	V.E.G. President. Before the administration of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, had stood still in the climate of Iceland. No emissions reduction plan, no non-carbon policy, no policy or community adaptation to climate change. The government had no political guidance to follow. Now, however, the issue has been completely reversed, and we are in full swing. The climate management has been greatly improved. We have a funded operation program that has seen today. We're now working on a cut-off of carbon. We're working on a adjustment course. We've increased funding only in the Environment Ministry by 77% during this terms, and it's spreading in a variety of measures. Iceland's commitments prepped. This is all but a few senators for political purposes. This is the calculated EU fairness target where one goes above all. Let's get the facts straight, even here at the General Hall. [[It's a minimum.]] And that the only thing that happens is professional, it doesn't make any sense either. I have to protest. The parks have been placed in public transportation, electric cars, wheels, electric bikes, etc. Intensifications for infrastructure have never been greater, green investments and tax incentives, double forestry, doubled land healing, tenfold recovery in wetlands, growth of the recycling economy, increase in rock suppression, and so on. There is, however, a sign of a change in times when the World of Congress agrees to do better in climate matters, so I am so delighted. I know, and I am convinced that we will continue that course together. We're a lightyear from the stationary climate at the beginning of the season, and then together, let us set an even more ambitious goal and continue to take action to accomplish it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u41	President. Last October, why? paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen for the proposal to conspire as to how action is due to cartilage damage in property. The members of the Committee of welfare, which I am moving here, find the only adjustment proposal that turns toward the time frame mentioned in the proposal itself. The committee believes that the time frame reserved for 2nd. The proposal, April 2021, is unrealistic and therefore suggests 2nd. is said, by permission of the president: The Council shall state the measures taken and the schedule for further action will be no later than June 2021. A respectable president. I'm going to read the committee opinion. All the committees are upon things which are very pleasant. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Dögg Sigurjónsdóttir D. Möller and Kjartan Njálsson from the offices of the surgeons, the Árný Sigurðardóttir of Reykjavík's National Institute of Health, Syllju Dögggröng Sylgja from the National Institute of Labs, Ólafur H. Wallevik from the Research Office, and Vigdís Eva Líndal of Peron. The committee received reviews of the case by Greta Ósk Óskarsdóttir, the National Institute of Health, the Communication, and the World Health Organization. The Parliamentary arrangement suggests that the Minister of Social Affairs and Child Affairs, in consultation with the Ministry of Health, suggest the necessary changes in the laws and regulations to uproot and prevent damage due to the moisture damage of property. The reviews received by the commission were generally positive and urged that the proposal be taken care of. At that time, the attitude of the visitors to the committee was generally positive. The review of the Consistency points out that there is a planned collapse of the New Creation Center of Iceland, perhaps with negative consequences on mold studies. It was encouraged to ensure continued financial support so that research could be continued. The Commission points out that among the aims of the synopsis proposal, independent monitoring of the construction tests is being carried out prior to its use in this country and to improve the knowledge of barber damage and prevention practices. The Commission considers it important to use the knowledge already available and to encourage the government to take good care of the studies that have been carried out for years and to ensure that they will not be broken into their relationship with the restructuring centre of Iceland. The commission was arranged by the surgeon general. The reviews to the Committee and to the meeting of the Committee pointed out that the surgeon's office had already set up a field plan for shaving injuries and molds. The National Institutes for Health and Health are conducted by specialists from the Centers of the capital, National Work and Health, National Health Organization, Land Hospital, and National Labs. These include tasks to be solved by the National Competent Authorities on how to instruct the health professionals on moisture damage and their impact on health; to provide advice and guidance on how to treat the conditions related to moisture damage and mold in housing; how to give counseling and training to the public; to evaluate whether it is necessary to establish a particular team of specialists who treat patients who are affected by shaving disorders and to offer suggestions on how to promote moisture and mold lesions. The role of the Council is therefore somewhat in line with the actions proposed in the synonym. Does the committee believe that it is important that the work that is already started in the work of the committee and that the activities proposed will still be performed as long as it is possible? The committee believes that this would increase the results of the Council and speed up the implementation of action under the proposal. Nevertheless, it is also necessary to ensure the progress of the work outside the field of the Council or to need the initiative on the part of a minister to become a reality. Most house - to - house measures are proposed and must be handled in order to deal with the widespread problems involving barber damage and molds in the custody of social and child - care ministers and will become custody of such measures at his Ministry, regardless of the professional profession's work. The cost assessment of the synonym was made and the results of the evaluation are as follows: The Committee suggests that a centrally available database can be created to provide information on housing projects as part of an existing database. Thus, there would be a relatively simple addition that could cost about 3 billion. K. The annual cost of such a database would not have to be high, or about 2 billion. K. It is difficult to determine the costs of the rest of the Parliament's resolution, but a minister is entrusted with an export and depends on the size and priorities. It is, in fact, there. to discuss increased monitoring of structural and knowledge tests for moisture damage and prevention. It cannot be excluded that these factors could be financed in a way that allows expenses to be contained within existing budgets, depending on the priority of budgeting. Other factors in the proposal should not have a significant impact on the expenses of the Kingdom budget. The Commission stresses the need for adequate funding for the projects, but with good results it would be possible to reduce the cost of community because of maintenance of property and health damage caused by barber damage and mold. I'll get back to the Commission's new proposal. The Commission points out that other means may be able to achieve the objectives of the proposal but to change the law and regulations. Then the committee counts that the date in which 2rd is set. The suggestions are unrealistic. With reference to the above, the committee suggests that the Councilhood proposal will be accepted by the change made in the opinion. In view of this, Helga Vala Helgadóttir Velgadóttir, chairman of the Homology Committee, Árnadóttir Kolbrún, Guðmundur Innsson, Magnúsdóttir Rafney Kristjánsdótir, Læðney Magnústóttir, Þór Gunnarsson, vice president of the Administrative Committee, and Vilhjálmur Árnason, sign this under the title with a warning that he will explain in his speech. President. Road damage in housing is a major problem in Iceland and is, in fact, given that the problem is more widespread than we realize today. However, there has been a recent increase in awareness of the subject, including ... forthemedicationofthe press. Last night we saw a coverage of Fos Sogs School, but the problem has been going through school for a long time. Sickness associated with this public health problem can become serious. In short, the proposal is to hide the highest. Social and child-friendly minister to suggest the necessary changes to address the six aspects of the proposal, the points that will be involved in helping the owners of real estate to eliminate moisture damage and prevent new buildings from being exposed to moisture damage in the future. The proposal suggests that laws and regulations change to increase the right protection of those affected by moisture damage. The changes tend to focus on factors that include evaluating barber damage and the handling of such cases by insurance companies. Today, there is a lack of harm in the coordination of their methods, such as the testing of moisturizers and molds. The same is missing in methodology and evaluation of the severity of the case. Many of these are costly and often self - destructive, and in that case, the damage is simply not satisfied. This also applies to the interior and, of course, health damage. The proposal is to promote the independent monitoring of structural testing prior to its use in this country. To date, the construction industry's laboratory has played this role, but its future is unclear as it is passing away. The public needs to succeed when it comes to securing basic research on building materials under Icelandic conditions. This, along with increased professional education, is one of the basic premiums for preventing moisture damage in the future in Iceland. The third point in the motion turns to the increased knowledge of a professional, with particular attention to increased knowledge of the risk and the likelihood of early barber damage. In recent years, there have been a number of cases of barber damage and molds in recent homes that are directly attributable to their buildings, such as storage materials outside the doors and the potential lack of expertise in working in wetlands and windows to mention just a few. This, of course, is an incentive to improve the construction process. The proposal is suggested to the highest level. Ministers provide centrally available information on housing projects. There is an opportunity for numerous tools. I can see that it might look similar to the CIA database on automobiles or health stations. Buying homes is one of the biggest investments we will make in our lives. The idea is there to gather central information about the projects that have truly been carried out on housing and could affect the plans of future buyers and tenants. Fifth is suggested to the highest. A minister uses positive motivation to ensure that property can be sufficiently secure from moisture damage. The last figure of the proposal is the highest. Ministers to take in a positive incentive for real estate owners to prevent moisture damage from the real estate that has already been built in Iceland. In the motion, the wording is deliberately open to give the highest. A minister has the power to think for a moment beyond the box. I'm about to conclude my case on this important matter, but finally, I just want to talk about the medical part of what we're discussing. The effects on the body where mold is found are very different but serious respiratory infections and skin reactions are likely to be the most common. Of course, mold is different, and not all are dangerous, and then, of course, it goes different with people. However, in view of the fact that the instruments of analysis are still quite few and the treatments are also so important that we take on the preemptive measures required. At the end of the council arrangement, it says, by permission of the president: The Council shall state the measures taken and the schedule for further action will be no later than June 2021. To explain this wording, and to make any doubt as to what is meant, a minister is to acknowledge the action taken, and as a plan for further action with a verbal report here at the General. This body of interpretation, a respected president, is a national agreement, and I am deeply and sincerely glad that this is far along in the council. I want to thank you especially why. The well - being committee of all who have shown understanding of the seriousness of the matter under which they are and the need for government officials to take firm action. I'm particularly glad that all the committees are on the case, and I want to thank the members of the committee for the best cooperation on this subject. Finally, I hope that its success will continue here within the council and that the matter will be agreed here at the Senate Hall when it comes to voting on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u42	A respectable president. We'll discuss Porta's synopsis proposal for measures due to the barber damage of property. Transporter's down. paritaprevir Mogensen Morensen. I am along with many others on the council arrangement as well as on the committee opinion. This is the best part. It's a long time for us to deal with this problem, which is incredibly important in Iceland, and unfortunately, it has been shown little interest to deal with. Hopefully, the council arrangement will be taken in hand and the case will be taken into consideration. The formation of an apartment building in the right setting takes only 24◯48 hours. It is usually made up of walls or understows. Early symptoms are usually just colds, and your immune system might as well be active because after that you may be following sneezing, itchy skin, headache and irritability. But if you don't do anything wrong, it can even get worse, and so can you. For susceptible individuals, weight loss, pruritus, diarrhoea, fatigue, coughing up blood may occur and memory loss occurs. This shows the severity of the mold problem in black and white. It tells us that we have basically been asleep in this area, and especially in school living places. It seems that children are particularly susceptible to molds and vegetation because the immune system of children has not been adapted enough to this problem. But there are reasons for these matters in buildings. So it is really sad to know that the problem is even in the newly built state. And why is it in the new building? Unfortunately, the hurry is great and rule - making, so it seems to be a total success and failure to see whether the laws and buildings are properly built. In many cases, it seems that the one who is supposed to have it is the builder or related to it. Of course, this is one of the problems we need, and hopefully we're working on so that a Housekeeping and Engineing Institute will have the strength to see that such problems become an exception, a complete exception, and then the surveillance will be so that if this becomes evident, it will be possible to intervene immediately. This is a very urgent matter. The cost of housing can be enormous, but in many cases it is impossible to improve the health suffered by individuals because of the mold. It is costly to have to repair housing as well as for society if people fall out of a job market or otherwise become unworkable and even unable to think about themselves because of the consequences of this. You've heard amazing stories about how people have come out of this problem. That is why it is also good to know that new methods are being developed in the building sector. One factor that has proved effective against mold is the hammer used. There's no sign of the mold being able to recover. So we have solutions and we should use them. We're supposed to do everything in order to make sure that these things don't happen, that housing is, for example, a place to live. wrong building or even not maintained, as we have seen, and that there should be no supervision. Even when two people live in a couple's house and one member wants to restore his house, keep everything clean, and care for all things, the other side can make it collapse and cause serious injury with molds and others. There's something wrong with our system while we let it go. I sincerely hope that when the council arrangement goes to the secretary's office first, such things will be taken firmly and that they will not be able to do so either because of local or otherwise, to have a place that could cause serious health damage to people. As I have been in the past, the cost can be tremendous and can also cause irreparable damage to someone who may have just bought a home and cannot cope with the repairs that need to be performed. It's the best thing to do, and I support it, as we've seen. I hope that there will be a good start, and the proposal will be accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u43	Mr. President. We're here to discuss a proposal for a resolution made by the river. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen and other Councilmen of Pirata, as well. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur the Year's Árnason. It's a big deal, and I keep silent here, including... because I'm one of the people who sign the committee opinion. It's a big deal, and it's like a couple of sledgehammers. This has been the subject of recent discussions and has only been introduced into the community talk related to it. Here at the council, I think I might be persuaded to have had a little flight of these cases, including... ... witha request why. paritaprevir Álfheiður Ingadóttir in 2018 rather than 2018 if I recall correctly, and I was fortunate enough to be with her at that request. It asks many of the points being asked for a minister to address in this suggestion. You see, it's happening, I think it's safe to say, a sort of social awareness about these matters. It has at least During the past six to eight years, the news was repeated because housing, either by public or private, has been shown to be poorly homeable or poorly qualified for molds and barbaric damage. Some members of the Parliament have brought up the matter by showing that even local school buildings have been in trouble. The most recent example is that of a school called in the media yesterday, followed by the Kappavogi School of the School of School for School of School, which eventually had a way of leveling the school simply to the ground, where such uncertainty was felt about molds and barber damage and was low in order for some kind of repair to have a lasting effect. It was chosen to go all the way to level school and start over. In effect, the proposal and proposals make for a separation to the minister to take up the steps and try to direct them in a course and, fortunately, in the implementation of the proposal of the Committee, make some of the points that may be pointed out in the proposals, under the 1666, are already in progress but may not have been well structured, and then this pressure on the Minister is put in place to provide some kind of paper or report to the council within a certain period of time. You see, the health consequences of either living or working in a home that is dependent on this garbage can be very great, and even in later times, we are seeing people get the most energy because of such problems. It's important to remember that this is one of the guys in the community that is, I'm not saying entirely, but in large measure, preventative. That's why it's so important that we're on our toes a little bit. These issues are now in the hands of the House and Human Engineers Department, and I hope that once the checkup and the inspection are there, there'll be a better grip on this and a better follow-up. During the years around and after a collapse, members of the United States are familiar with the examples of the building industry that may have been less watched than they would have been, showing that much of what was then built was later subjected to molds and moisture damage. This is very bad because we are not just talking about people's health; we are also talking about the biggest investments in the vast majority of the largest holdings that people have, and thus they can be of enormous importance. As members of Congress also know, people are immune to the problems caused by molds and barber damage. In some cases, there are even two people who live in the same home that one feels nothing about it, but the other is almost unworkable. It may have taken some measure of authority, the intra-individual variability. But this is something in all human society. We may have similar genotypes, but it appears differently, e.g. in how we get diseases. The same thing over there. I think it's important to complete this case and give this mission to the minister. This is an important recognition that here we have a real problem that we can socialize. I'm glad the council's about to finish this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u44	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct climate change laws. With the bill, the terms of a few laws that require the permission of a minister for the implementation of regulations are being corrected and proposed to introduce two types of the European Union. With law No. 98/2020 were made a number of changes in climate laws, No. 70/2012. The changes were reversed, including that a minister was commissioned to set regulations on further implementation of certain items. For the treatment of the bill that became the law of No. 98/2020 contributed more parts of the Environment and Transport Committee to change the bill. The improvement in specific regulations has been found as the scope of this Regulation is a repetition of the regulations contained in 5 mg. Count 9. The law. The bill is therefore suggested that the regulations of these regulations be corrected. In addition, two types of the European Union will be proposed to be introduced and added to Article 47. The law. One of them, a directive (EU) 2018/410 updated materials issued by 2003/87/EC on the EU mobilisation system prior to the fourth period of the business system of 2021 to 2030. Part of the directive was clearly adopted into climate law by law No. 98/2020 and note the requirements of the directive in IV. the section of the law on details related to the license of the operator. It also contains the regulations of the Directive IV. Section A, which deals with specific measures for specific emissions centres and finally contains the terms in VII. the section of the law on innovation's funds, but part of the release warrants should be a provision to support innovation projects that lead to reduction of emissions. It was intended to implement the directive by law No. 98/2020, but a greater part of the Environment and Transport Committee, showed that it could not be introduced itself because it had not been installed in the EEA Convention. A distinction between the implementation of the European Commission's legislation and the introduction of the directive should be made. In both cases, improvement is observed for the specific type, but only in the latter case, in the sense of EEA rights, is essentially induction. The directive was then adopted in the EEA Convention on July 24, 2020, and it is now proposed to be introduced in the understanding of EEA rights. It is necessary to implement the directive itself, but secondary types on the basis of it are expected in the EEA Convention for the fourth period of the business system. The Directive (EU) 2020/1071 includes the decision of the European Commission which also alters the Directive 2003/87/EC for flying, which is the exception of the European Commission's standard area of the EU's commercially authorised budget. Changes are being made that affect II. In addition to climate legislation, it lists flights that are the exception of the EU business system. Switzerland made a agreement in 2014 with the European Union on equal treatment of fliers, where flights from EEA to Switzerland are on the responsibility of the EU and flights from Switzerland to EEA are on the responsibility of Switzerland. This change will not affect Icelandic fliers but they need to announce and deliver their emissions from the EEA to Switzerland, and vice versa, just like other emissions within the ETS system. It's not expected to be a financial impact at the state fund for the bill. A respectable president. I've traced the bill's main subject and suggested that it be at 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u45	A respectable president. It is a challenge to ensure that laws develop in harmony with time. This is especially true in the field of communication, where changes are very rapid, and the council may have seen that many cases have come to its attention in that area. Here's where I recommend a bill for a telecommunications bill. The bill includes a full reexamination of the law on the post and communications agency. An enforcing law on the Agency has arrived at some point in its years and needs a review. Last year, quite a bit of work was put on this project by the post - telecommunications agency. As a result, it was decided to review the Agency law, but there was something else that called for a legal review, since some recent laws, especially in the field of communications and network security, have had a major impact on the role of the Agency and its tasks. Provided the above diagnostic work also to ensure that a follow-up of the post-supervising legislation would be implemented to the Agency, including setting the example of a dancer. So while this is the bill, a bill for changes in mail services laws and building laws will be provided which include the transfer of mail services from the post-mail and communications agency to the Agency. A respectable president. The main objective of the bill is to set up a new organisation that meets the needs and expectations of the community in the world of telecommunications and network security, but in the coming years the Agency's projects in various areas, e.g. in the network security sector, the increase is growing. This will open up the Agency's opportunities to support the development of communications, e.g. By supporting projects that focus on innovation and communications and network security. It is suggested that the Agency be known as a remote agency with that name for the bill. By means of the bill the Agency is given a clear box that reflects its role and enables it to cope with the rapid changes in the Agency's topic areas. The Agency's main task is to deal with communications and network security, but mail languages are today only about 6% of its activities. In particular, it should be suggested that the Agency be authorized to participate in studies and development activities as well as that the role of the Agency and the P.R. will be more clearly defined than in the current legislation. In this context, the Agency will be a consultant for the government, a state of public defence in this country, and will be granted the authority to order telecommunications to ensure a communication relationship in certain public defences. It is true that we had this experience in the December 2019 issue of Awake! It should be noted that the bill does not include the introduction of the EEA types, however, it should be noted that the current legislation on the Agency, as well as the general mail and communications legislation, and related to rules, is largely based on European rules. Therefore, there are many laws unchanged from the current Post and Communication Act, which are No. 69/2003. The changes included in the bill are in line with the aim of a communication program. With clear vision and ambitious goals, we achieve success and produce positive effects for society all. It should be noted that the bill also supports the aim of a bill to new communication laws now being used by Congress to promote the practical development of communications. A competition, economic development, and security are the key elements that governments focus on, but it is also important that legislation be maintained by technology development and always support the development of an Icelandic telecommunications market. I would like to emphasize the importance of communication legislation being reasonable and balanced between consumer interests and markets. In a competitive market, there must be strict guidelines for the market at a time. This bill aims to simplify the legal setting of the institution, which plays a key role in the implementation and monitoring of communications and network security in the country so that they can meet the needs and needs of society. A respectable president. I have now made clear the general subject of the bill and suggest that it be followed by this discussion referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u46	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill for changing the postal law and building laws. The objective of the bill is to measure the legal adjustment required to transfer administrative and post-mail services from the post-mail and communications agency to the Based Agency. Over the past few years, work has been under way to review the law environment of the post and communications agency, as discussed in the history of a bill here, with the objective of uplifting, streamlining and clarifying laws and rules so that the Agency can meet the expectations of society and needs in the world of telecommunications and information technology. In order to accomplish this, the area has been covered extensively and thoroughly over the old and new projects of the Agency, overlaps with related areas, and considered opportunities for improvement. A recent change in the Agency's legal environment includes a law on mail services adopted in 2019, a bill for a new form of communication that is taking place in Congress, as well as a bill for new legislation on the Icelandic national capital, which will also be affected by the activities of the post - communications agency. In particular, there is a bill for a new global law on the post and communications agency, which will be submitted along with this bill, and I went over here in a speech in a different language earlier today. It is assumed that the Act on Post and Communications, No. 69/2003, should be removed, the post and communications agency will become a telecommunications agency and its project will be on the other hand only in the field of telecommunications. A respectable president. Clearly, mail cases have undergone significant changes in the past few years, and general letters have declined significantly. Changes in communication and communication patterns have increasingly brought information from printer mediums to digital mediums. E-mail, community service, etc. has long since replaced traditional printed letters. In recent years, communication and transportation have changed the nature and scope of local mail services. Thus, with the development of digital communication solutions, mail services do not play the same role as before. Nevertheless, the postal service still plays an important role, especially for employment, and plays a key role in the web. So it is my opinion that for the future it is the State's job to ensure that all the people of the country have mail services. There is, however, an opportunity to simplify the role of the State in these matters, but it is important to guard against such simplicity. In this regard, particular attention should be given to the different circumstances and interests of the communities around the country, making sure that the national interests of the whole country are being looked to when it comes to the support of the State in this area. The work that has been done during the update of the law and of the post-communications agency has led to including in order to be looked forward to the willingness to conduct a surveillance of the Agency's mail service laws to the Agency, including setting the example of a dancer. The main role of the Agency by the legislation on the Agency, No. 106/1999, with a special focus on the equal opportunities for employment and homemaking, the development of the environment, is increasing the development of urban and economic development. The Agency operates in a special field of development to monitor national development, including with data collection and research and development or development plans for the development of habitats and employment in order to trust farms and occupations in their habitats. The research of the developing field called attention to hard and important work, and within the Agency, strong and specialized personnel are found in urban and research areas. Therefore, recommend various evidences by developing a national mail project so that the Agency can continue working with the Ministry to ensure that a national, economic, economic, and national, economic, efficient, and reliable mail service will be ensured. Therefore, the primary objective of this bill is to suggest a change in the law that includes the transfer of mail projects from the post-mail and communications agency to the Agency's building centre and that the role, authority and duties of the Agency will be the same as the mail and communications agency had for the transfer. The bill is built up in a way that includes the duties and duties of the Post and Communication Network in the Act on Post and Communications and Communications. Will have the same responsibilities, as well as the same authority and communications agency now have in the field of mail, if the bill gets its start. A project group has been formed with representatives from the Post and Communication Institute and the Office that will work to address the challenges of the project and to ensure that the knowledge and experience within the Email and Communications Agency of the seminars will continue to be established throughout the transfer process. A respectable president. I believe the legal modifications presented here are part of the simplifying the role of the State in the post-mail sector without the risk of national equality. I have explained the subject of the bill in general, and I suggest that it be followed by this discussion referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u47	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize various forms of delinquency in the area of transport and rural government. The bill is part of a simple rule and one of my policies during the season of election. It is important to work at making the management board more services and simpler without engaging in social interests. The recent losses have been carried out on this policy in my Ministry, on the one hand, by analysis of the Ministry's regulations and by websites requesting information from companies and people on improving services, surveillance and the implementation of regular work at the Ministry and its services. Already a full reexamination and reform of many of the Ministry's laws have been made in order to simplify regulations, deal with changing community conditions, and, especially, digital evolution. For example, there is law on legal homes and residences. Their goal is to simplify their service and to allow legislation to take into account changing social and technological developments. There are also new overall laws on ships and bills to legalize policy-makers in the field of transportation, telecommunication, and settlement. The above - mentioned analysis of the Ministry's regulations led to some of the results. Shows that various laws in its topic field have completed their role but are still in force, although they are no longer relevant, either because the overall review of a Regulation of the Ministry's topic field has replaced custom laws that have not been removed or because their role was timed. An example of a rule no longer significant is a law code on local governments in certain communities. Special legislation applied to the local government individually. Total government laws are now laid down in general as to the administrative and administrative practices of rural governments. In this regard, the code of laws relevant to rural governments, their roles, and their management is set out. The same is true of legal terms regarding the prenuptial rights of individual purchases. The rights were previously given by special hearings from the Council. By means of a 1986 rural government law, towns could become buying places that would have to be filled with conditions no longer required. So this has not been done in the past. Another example of a rule that has fulfilled its role is the layer of automatic phone and a law on collecting equations due to an overall service for a more precise number of years. Clearly, they have completed their role in the law and are unnecessary in a code of law. It is preferable that out - of - date laws or laws that have finished their function are removed from a code of laws so that there is no doubt about valid rights and legal procedures. The bill does not include a change of material to the current rights. A respectable president. I have now explained the subject of the bill in gross terms and suggest that it be followed by this discussion referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u48	President. Here's a great deal going on, fine remake from my Senate case from 2018, about the disappearance of empty songs. Most of those laws were largely by the law, on purchase rights, on town governments, and so on, immediately. V.E.G. The minister of travel, the minister of finance, the Minister of Justice, reminds me, and good if not a seafaring minister has also offered a similar case, a call from that bill. It's a little hard to see in the old law who's responsible for what law column, especially in these empty laws. I wondered, " Do I have a law on the harmony of the mix-up business in a single football society, law No? ' 15 from 1936, and a law on possession rights for the Council of Isafjörður on property under school, No. 31/1909, if you're under here, or if there's a possibility you could fit in with a financial minister. It is unclear whether this is a matter for the Minister of Government or for the secretary of finance of these old laws. If it weren't for the committee to look over just a few of the empty laws that were in my bill from 2018 and see if they also apply to the Ministry Department. Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u49	A respectable president. I think we're right next door. A senator's mission is to verify what I was going to do here, that the Ministry reviewed all these laws that had gone out at a time or were no longer required to have special laws because general legislation had been established on conditions that were met and could be made a buying place, etc. The Commission also needs to verify that the legal systems listed here are primarily under the Department of Government and Transport, but are not involved in other schemes. I think it's the direct responsibility of the Committee to make sure that it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u50	A respectable president. This is where I recommend a bill to correct the change in baseball, No. 61/2003. The subject of the bill can be counted in three. First, electronic monitoring regulations are included in ports. Second, the implementation of the European Commission Regulation 2017/352 is to set a framework for providing port service and for common financial transparency guidelines for rejection. Third, there is a charge for cooking. First, Mr. President, I'm going to cover electronic monitoring. In 1st. The bill is suggested that a new law be added to the Law, which becomes Volume 7. a for rejections that allow the management to refuse to keep the alarm in the dock area or to take pictures at regular intervals for security purposes. This bill suggests a directive that allows ports to apply such electronic monitoring in ports and to communicate information to users in an electronic way reject electronically, as well as to sea stations, police, Iceland's National Relations and transport accidents research. In many ports, camera surveillance is started. It is then common for the camera's realtime material to be shown on Web sites so that boat owners can monitor their boats and weather patterns. Have ship managers on their way to port also use this information to see where free space is available. The purpose of this command is to provide legislation for the processing of personal information that will be created at this time. It should be noted that rural society will need to evaluate the effects of this monitoring on personal protection. 1st par. The bill finally provides a minister with permission to further evaluate the implementation of personal information and its conditions in the Regulation. Mr. President. Next, I'm going to agree to the terms of the bill, which are involved in the implementation of the European Commission Regulation 2017/352, that there will be a box of rejection services and mutual financial transparency guidelines for rejection. This protocol, adopted in the EEA Convention by decision of the European Commission No. 128/209, which includes the so-called co-European transport network. Five Icelandic ports today are part of the transport network or the Sunship, the Steadfast Sea, the Far East, the Western Islands, and the Coastal Sea. Six. 1st par. The Council of the European Union states that Member States can also decide that the Regulation applies to other rejections. However, upon implementation of Regulation's directive, its requirements will apply only to ports within the panEuropean network except for the regulations on environmental discounts that I deal with below. For the implementation of EU regulations regulations, it is first suggested that the law be added to a new law, 9 pars. a, about ports within the joint transport network. The directive states that ports within the European transport network are obliged to consult users rejection and provide users with information about changes in the nature or sum of the ports at least two months before the change takes effect. In that case access to markets to provide port services may depend on minimal requirements for that service, the limitations of the number of hosts, the obligation to provide specific public services and restrictions associated with internal operators. Then a minister must be obliged by regulations to specify the Icelandic ports within the panEuropean transport network and also given the authority to further measure the granting of financial ports and markets, and to reject their independence, including consultations with users rejecting currency. On the basis of this source, the rest of the European Regulation, which does not require law-changes, will be implemented by the Regulation. Secondly, adjustments are made to 17. And 20th par. Portraits allowing us to pay discounts with reference to environmental considerations called environmental discounts. 13th. Prioritive regulations in the European Union require groundwork initiatives. The requirements of rejection are largely in accordance with the regulations of this Regulation. However, it does not contain a provision contained in the European Union's Regulation that rejections can pay a price on environmental issues. The current law allows us to do so unless it is shown that the cost is reduced to the services it renders. The bill suggests that this type of discount is not bound to the Icelandic ports on the European transport network, but it includes all rejections that fall under the standards of rejection. Is it reasonable that this source is not bound to ports within the European transport network? It is suggested that a minister be allowed to comment further on these aspects of the Regulation. The plan is for a minister to be able to set standards that should be considered at the decision of these discounts. Third, a new law is recommended to be added to the 27th floor. Portrait on charges of currency decisions. In 1st. Twenty-seven. The current law states that users are permitted to reject any decision-making policies established by the law and by the regulations set out in accordance with local legislation, other than taxation, to a Community agency. Thus, legal requirements are not legalized according to current laws. In the 18th. The European Regulation states that all persons of legitimate interest should have the right to appeal to decisions or individual measures taken by the Commission of the seaport, law, or other relevant national authorities. So it is suggested that a new paragraph be followed by a 1st paragraph. Twenty-seven. which says that despite 1st mg. it is permitted to reject the charges made by the European transport network, which involve the content of EU 2017/352 regulations to the Transport Centre. Mr. President. Finally, the bill is proposed to pass away due to the activities of a marine farm. One component of fish farming is the transport of farm fish through ports, i.e. requested, read and disposal. In the 17th. Portraits requiring reimbursement and reimbursement are not requirements that clearly require a license refused to charge due to this part of fish farming industry's activities. Have some ports based due to this service at the docks of the fees, a fee, i.e. 1st Count 2.mg. 17th par. The law. It says that ports are permitted to collect an amendment of marine products, trains, or disposals. If the fee is charged, it should be paid at least 1.25% and at most 3% of total value. When this law has been applied, the criteria for the overall significance mentioned in this set have not always been used. There is disagreement on the legality of this currency, since it is in harmony with its words to raise fishing companies and not to feed fish from fish farms. According to the Ministry, this trial need to be resolved. Is therefore suggested in the bill that we number 1 2.mg. 17th par. Adding to this the new staff of fish's fuel in sea farms, including sparkling coals of fire, is the new one. Qualifications by this letter will be paid under the cost of building, firing, maintaining, and renewing the repairs, docking facilities, and docks where appropriate, and general management and management costs. The tents according to this cane should be paid by those who grow the fish that runs through its ports. This is a fixed price that does not cover any other activity of the fish farms. The approved bill is not expected to have a significant impact on the state funds. The bill is involved in the cost of ports within the European transport network and while adapting to the new rules for reimbursement. The bill is not considered to have a significant impact on the job. A respectable president. I have now explained the key elements of the bill and suggested that it be followed by this discussion referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u51	Thank you very much. Transport and rural Ministers for measuring this bill, which is important, is relevant to several communities. We know of the increasing activities that have resulted from fish farming in the coastal environment. I'd like to ask the minister of this important change very little. We're here to introduce the EEA rules but apart from them are two additional factors, i.e. these regulations about electronic monitoring and payment, called fire charge. It's like the highest. A minister came into the office has been a businessman in exchange, a man who was suspicious of the fee, and who believed that it was not legitimate to collect a fee for cooking. I'd like to hear a little bit more about whether or not this is a reliable and sufficient rural government to ensure the necessary income needed to properly implement the ports, since these companies are very important in the coastal areas, even though it is not entirely an order or directive. There are other factors involved in this business on the seaside, as is normal.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u52	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Guðjón of Brjánsson for an answer and an opportunity to go deeper into two teams. For electronic monitoring, I think it is by default that there is simply a lack of permission to work with these data that can be important, whether in a police or patrol investigation, e.g. transport accidents, if necessary, as these data exist. This is why this source is made up and clearly discussed. For the fuel price, of course, the situation is, and that's why I went over it in my case, that this would not in itself have a significant impact on the job life because today a fee is being collected on the basis of the cost. That is the reasonable uncertainty. In this case, efforts are being made to define the factors in which fish farms need them. For example, waterfronts are not considered to be necessary for services to fish farms; hence, this factor is not considered to be a normal form of exchange. In fact, I think it is very important that the committee carefully examines the matter and suggests to form together with the currency under the fish farmers' law. This is not being thought of as a double charge. Rather, it is trying to explain the situation as it is today. Some rejects are giving a discount in excess of what is stated in the Law text on a tax. [[The president calls.]] However, there is also some conviction of the legal rights of that payment, which makes it necessary for me to make it clear. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u53	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for good answer. This network of harbors is great, as I mentioned. And this price goes on to fish fish and logs that run through ports and nothing else. This, of course, is a major activity, and people depend on standing at the docks. It is the rural population that is responsible for maintaining and building in the coastal areas, and it is not taken up here to address directly, whether or not this is a roof on the remuneration, whether it should happen in general contracts or what. The rural communities have a real need for this to be clear, since they may be dealing with a large business and perhaps with steel. There are great interests at stake. Then there is the second step of feeding, the feeding process being extended. This is done by mothers, and the barges do not necessarily come to shore. There is an external pump system that may also present a great question mark that these barges are no seaships, suffer ill water, and, of course, be tied to docks when they are not expanding their service. Probably at one time or another, it made a bad impression. It will be informative to discuss the matter further on the committee and get the opinion of guests. However, if only a minister wanted to to to to to to swerve the provision and the basis for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u54	A respectable president. As I mentioned in history and a previous answer today, a fee is being collected on the basis of a tax paid by men in many cases given a discount beyond what is stated in the law that the percentage should be. I believe that there is some kind of acceptance of the rejection that this service is not exactly the same as it is being given because of the fishing industry. The Ministry agrees, and that's why we're trying to define in the law which services should be underneath and therefore there will no doubt be differences of viewpoints between the rural communities or those who run the harbors that other factors should be heard there while the fish farms fear that there will be something more over there that should not be heard there. That is why I think it is important that this legal arrangement be set up to eliminate the trial. But I agree with what. A member of the Parliament said that it will be the task of the Committee to figure out the balance between the two committees. Of course, the lawgiver's job is to cut these items, to make it clear that we reduce conflict between individuals and companies and/or with rural communities and the rejections in this relationship. Hv. A senator mentioned the food, and we have discussed that the Ministry previously published instructions that when food is transferred to a feed frame without landing, there was no payment based on the requirements of services, as there was no measured service on the part of the rejection for the paying fees. The opposite is being thought for the currency on the basis of the services being performed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u55	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize a college law, No. 63/2006, and government law, No. 85/2008. The bill changes the access conditions to the university. The bill involves the change in 19th sector. Law on university and 18th degree. a law on a university education that stipulates students at a university. A student's exam has long been the main access conditions at a university in Iceland under law. By the change presented here, it will be legal for a student who has passed the final test at the third grade of high school, as well as for students who have completed the student's test. A respectable president. With this change of law, university application is a requirement for the changes that followed the primary secondary studies of high school in 2011 after high school law was changed in 2008. A special study test for the change in law was conducted centrally by the Ministry of Education and Culture. The secondary schools had limited access to education courses and were learning methods for the student's test. With new high school laws, the study guides were completely transferred to high school. For example, there are now over 150 ways to go to a student's test with different content established by the National Institute of Education. A final test from high school is thus varied in content and content. At the same time, other learning methods at the third stage have developed and changed and are not to be any lower in the school system than in all their diversity studies. A respectable president. The goal of this bill is to balance the potential of high school students who complete a third-stage test according to the primary college education course. Colleges are also encouraged to shape clear and transparent educational criteria. Along with extensive technological and social changes, the development of the fourth industrial revolution, and other factors, both the needs of society and the work have changed. The demand for industrialized people is high, but at the same time, industrial studies are especially well prepared for a number of university studies, e.g. in engineering, nutrition, and other fields. We want to meet the different needs and motivations of students and to make sure that the way we study is clear. A student's skill, skill, and knowledge are really assessed, and the access conditions of a university university made clear so that a student can conduct his high school education after school leaves at college, but we should not put the chair before the college door that has finished another final test at a third stage than a student's test. The change in this bill should be an incentive for university education to set even more specific goals that take into account the actual skills and knowledge of students rather than a diploma's signature. A respectable president. Significant consultations have already been made by this bill, and 16 reviews were received by government consultations. Generally, reporters described satisfaction with the bill code and the change in access terms. Many reporters hailed the bill, counting changes in access conditions long time in life and also hoping that the change will result in a higher education and higher and better opportunity to start university studies. A respectable president. The above changes aim to match the university's access criteria with the skills, skills, and knowledge of students, rather than with a systematic barrier for those who have passed a final test on a third stage besides a student's test. As a result, the bill includes increasing equality for study regardless of study methods and the final exams of high school students. It is my opinion that with these changes they will be taking steps in the right direction for an Icelandic nation. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The General and Education Committee following the 1st.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u56	Madam President. I recommend here a bill of a change in the law of elementary school, which aims to increase the course of Christian teaching in basic schools of the country, as was the value of elementary school law, No. 91/2008. The title of the subject religion will be changed to Christendom and religion. Formal Christianity in Iceland, where Christianity was taught as a special subject from the middle of the 16th century to 2008 or for nearly 460 years. Since 2008, during the institution of new elementary school shapes, Christendom has been taught as part of religious instruction, not as a special subject. So this bill suggests that a part of Christian teaching will be promoted and the name and title of the study will become Christianity and religion, as mentioned earlier. Hence, following adjustments in basic school law, a key school course should be updated, including section 6.1, section 8.5, section 24.1 and section 24.2, according to the product information. There is also the need to update and increase the study material in this field. For example, the vast range of community studies has only more than 11% of the total number of students in elementary schools, as seen in the 2011 main textbooks. So the percentage is less than it was before the different branches of the community were united. It is natural and desirable that Christianity be introduced to a greater extent than that of the nation's youth. The country's youth is entitled to become acquainted with the religions that designed the community in which we live. In many respects, the history of the land and Christianity is interwoven. Therefore, Christian science should have a special place within the walls of high school. It is natural, therefore, that it is in the foreword of religion and religion's association with the history of Iceland and culture. It is cultural, historical, and social. We are to present to you the effects Christianity has had in our community. So it is natural to teach specifically about the dominant religion of the land. This makes students lock up in Icelandic and Western culture and culture. It is reasonable to ask, " What role can Christian teaching play in today's society, where so - called secularism and ethicism are prominent? ' Opponents of Christian teaching often suggest that more and more people resign from the State Church and few believe in God. I believe, Madam President, to take into account the religions that have been the dominant member of our culture and community. Christianity is interwoven with the nation's history for over a thousand years. Our culture cannot be understood unless we have knowledge of Christian values, called populism. Consequently, the evidence is cultural and social, or in other words, that it is normal for the religions of the community to receive appropriate instruction in their teaching. This is best done by making adjustments in the proper teaching arrangement in order to restore Christianity, as was the case with the implementation of law No. 91/2008. The bonds of school and of our Christian culture are important in maintaining our understanding of the basic cultural makeup of the nation. The Christian foundation is worth no less than the history and tongue. In this regard it may be noted that in the manual Reading contest in elementary school, Christianity is especially suitable for preparation for careful reading. It suggests that there will be increased Christianity in religion. Here, immigrants who come from different cultures are increasing in number, adding to the demand for tolerance and mutual respect. As the increase in the number of Icelandic citizens from a foreign background grows, the need to break down barriers between cultures and religious groups is increasing and thus to improve tolerance. This is best accomplished by special instruction about the predominant religions of the land, Christianity, and the general education of the world's religions and thus by the culture and customs of nations and ethnic groups. In order for such education to be of benefit and to promote the general development of students and their active involvement in a democratic society, it must be extended to all. In 2002 the European Council issued recommendations that Member States recognize that religion is an important part of a European community and that education is the key to the battle against ignorance, standards, and misunderstandings about religion and its leaders. The European Commission against racial prejudice and intolerance feels that education plays a vital role in fighting the lack of tolerance and racial prejudice, where students are taught about biodiversity and different religions. The emphasis on Christianity beyond that of other religions is made sacred by our culture and the history of the Christian faith. Understandably, most of the religions that exist in society and knowledge of Christianity and the Bible must be discussed as essential to understanding Western culture and society. Knowledge of one's own faith is essential to understanding the faith of others and the way to tolerance. The school is designed to communicate the fundamental values of society, which are based on Christian roots in this country. Education in Christian studies, ethics, and religion imparts knowledge to students of their own roots. The church gives important services in various fields, and it is important to people. Experience shows that circumstances can also arise where people turn extensively to the church. These include disasters and accidents. By the end of the year, there were some 2,32,000 members of the State Church, or some 65% of them. More Christian congregations are in the country, and in recent years there has been a marked increase in Catholic congregations. The objective of the teaching of Christendom and religion should be in harmony with today's community. Teachers value different religious and cultural backgrounds, and teaching is based on education. Students learn to place their Christian study in a much more knowledgeable context. They gain moral, moral, and social development. It is the ability to understand religion's attitude toward individuals, society, and environment. Learn to respect people of another religion and culture. It is possible for them to make informed decisions and to reason on them. The teaching must be tied to society, culture, and modern times. The good and bad consequences of religion must be taught on a wide scale. Students learn to respect others'beliefs and opinions. The role of teachers, not missionaries, will be emphasized. It is important that students learn about the religion that has shaped the community independent of church attendance. Church attendance or fluctuations in it from time to time do not compromise the people's culture. Secularization and personal belief should not influence what we learn about our history and our community. In the north, Christian instruction is usually defined as part of a general education. Basic schools in Denmark base religion studies on the teachings of Danish folk, ethics, Bible stories, and the history of Christianity. Norway says that the school is based on the basics of the Christian inheritance. School is not a missionary institution, so teaching should not conflict with religious freedom. It is church and religion to do the work, not the school, but the Christian ministry. Similarly, even if this is discussed in the textbooks, it is not part of the school to bring up certain beliefs. The school is designed to impart knowledge and to enhance our understanding of Christian beliefs and other religions. Christians can be taught and referred to Christianity without proclaiming it. The goal of the law is based on teaching and methodology. While teaching involves the objective and content of the teaching, the methodology, which is an independent article, is being developed in a precise way. Christianity deals with man as well as with his existence, and in that sense Christian teaching is not something confined to the religious aspect of human life. The aim and content of the teaching is within the framework set by the teaching authorities. The church does not decide how Christianity is taught. The methodology is designed to aim for the education and the sharing of knowledge. In his 20th - century Church and School, Dr. Pálsson's victorious son says that the school should communicate culture to children and be a part of personality development. While the religious aspect of culture is modulator, school should not be extended to church activities. With increased emphasis on Christianity, the importance of knowledge of other religions is not minimized. We must accept who we are, historical, moral, and religious. Since Christianity some thousand years ago, a Christian church and doctrine have played a prominent role in Icelandic culture and history. Thus, there will be no understanding of the basics of Christianity and its impact on the history of the nation. If the aim of the Icelandic educational system is to cultivate the nation's history and culture, it should not be forgotten. Christian teaching should not have a religious objective. This involves teaching to be theoretical, not proselytizing. Christian teaching can be divided into ethics and history in the most extreme of all. Religious instruction may be a third stage, but it can be said of a history that is neutral. As ethics, religion is a vital education. In today's ethics, education should equip students to deal with questions related to everyday life and to improve tolerance and a mutual understanding of a different outlook on life. Nevertheless, ethics cannot answer questions about purpose and values except to a limited extent. It cannot be held as a historian, as a fact study, nor as some sort of propaganda for a certain outlook. Teaching requires neutrality and is expected to deal with real problems. It is important to prepare teachers and teachers carefully for this study. The religious content of the ethics class has particularly an important role in teaching. Well, tradition and history are important, and in the West, there is a special emphasis on Christian ethics and religious tradition, in contrast with other religions, understandable in the light of a close link between ethics and the history of Christianity. As to ethics, Dr. Páll Skúlason wrote in his Pál I: ▪ Weighing logic is an important part of our ethics. As a matter of fact, ethics is not teaching, it is training. A good teaching method in ethics is a discussion of the requirement of consistency. Discipline between words and conduct is an important part of ethical education, for this is the primary way to train people to develop sound thinking and to make decisions knowing whether they are aware of their own attitudes and attitudes. The school is designed to encourage young people to think and reason on ideas and ideas. The practice of ethics is important in schools, and increased emphasis on Christianity should promote the religious, moral, and social development of students, says Dr. Páll Skúlason. Religion and history behind different moral views are just as important as ethics itself. Without these factors, it is impossible to identify the origin of moral ideas and work toward solidarity and understanding between conflicting attitudes. Parents and society should introduce their faith to their children, for if we do not, we are really choosing for them. If a person does not know the faith, he cannot properly reject it. We need to trust our children to make a choice. It requires that we deal with questions about ourselves, human existence, the purpose of life, man's position in the world, and the basis of moral values. Why should we limit or even avoid the benefits of our children? Christian science can help students to make their own personal and thought - provoking decisions about whether they want to become Christians, other religions, or even none at all. The discussion of segregation of Church and State is increasing. According to Gallup, most of the country wants to separate State and church. This, however, does not have much to do with the nation's history and culture. In lands where the separation of Church and State has been carried out, as in Sweden, Christianity is still the most emphasis on religion's basic schools. Madam President. I'm just going to go out here and do a big show in the history of a Christian course in Iceland. The church took root in Icelandic society shortly after the conversion of Christianity in 1000 C.E. Constant observances, services, saints, and various festivals show that the church has virtually to do with the lives of individuals throughout their lives. Churches, schools, monasteries, literature, and art began to flourish, and the church became increasingly the center of society. So was the church and its ideologies among the cornerstones of society for the next five hundred years, or until a new custom was adopted. As the Reformation changed by 1550, education grew even further. Marteinn Lúther believed that education plays an important social role in the ability of men to care for secular responsibilities. Spiritual instruction served a spiritual purpose. In Iceland, public education grew and began formal teaching in Christian studies at that time. Although teaching was primarily part of church services, literature in reading often contained instruction about Christianity. In 1594, Luther's teacher was published in Iceland, with Gottskálksson questions and answers in Oddur. In 1746 a decree issued by the king that children between five and six years of age should learn Lúther's studies and later the plant. Priests should visit homes and observe the studies of children and fine homes if not cared for. It was required to begin a Christian course by the age of 10 and to complete it by the age of 14, incurring guilt. The organized teaching of Christianity did not begin until about 1879. At that time, a law was passed at the General Assembly and confirmed by the king, stipulation for the responsibility of the homes, while it was being supervised by the priests. It was the official and approved system until child - education laws were passed in 1907. By means of that law, an educational arrangement subjugated the church's care to the State and school. A textbook published in 1929 found that Christian teaching began at the age of eight and ended at the age of 13. Bible stories were published in the latter part of the 19th century and were taught along with the writers, the Old Testament, the New Testament, Psalms, and prayers. Although church and school had been separated, the study was in the form of extrabook instruction and teachers, and the clergy were teaching. With this program of study, a Bible study began in the form best known today. The Bible stories are last mentioned in the lead school of 2007, showing that Bible stories are an important factor and that students should seek their religious meaning, their cultural influence, and their relationship with their everyday lives. Teaching laws were given in 1946, resulting in a decrease in Christian education. In 1960 a new program of study was published. The study material was discussed in more detail, but students were to learn certain psalms, scriptures, and the main events of church history. Purposes were set for teaching, including. to help students understand the main contents of the Scriptures, to teach students about the life of Jesús Kristur, and to develop their maturity by teaching them about how to live and how to Christian ethics. A new law on elementary school set up in 1974 stated that Christian morality was to be molded and that ethics and general religion were to be taught for the first time. Dr. Gunnar Thoroddsen spoke at the General Assembly that a Christian morality should be at home on a school goal. Two. So the law said: "The schools shall therefore be molded by tolerance, Christian morality, and democratic cooperation. " In 1976, a basic school course was followed by a law about elementary school. Christian teaching changed radically, making Christian morality more important, other churches, and other religions too. Changed emphasis was presented, with increased regard to the students and their understanding of the study material. For the first time, it speaks of other churches and other religions along with Christendom and ethics: ▪ The purpose of a study of Christian doctrine, ethics, and education on other fundamental religions is to give students knowledge of the core and teaching of the Christian faith, history and spread of it, and influence on the lives of individuals and cultures of the nations, to guide students to basic Christian ethics, and to teach them about the other major religions of today. The main course of study in 1989 was similar. It shows that under the study, teaching in Christendom, ethics, and religion is to be taught and taught in 1,697. Class. The study is designed to impart knowledge and understanding of Christianity; Christian understanding and moral factors are emphasized in connection with human relations, national life, and the use of natural resources. It was natural to base the teaching on the interpretation of an Evangelical_lutheric church belonging to almost all the people, such as 62 C.E. Presidential records of the Republic of Iceland. Religious compromise is that students know the difference between Christianity and other religions and understand basic differences between religion, ideas, and interfaith. In addition, it is important to be tactful when discussing family issues and attitudes, e.g. consumption and lifestyle status. This is especially true regarding beliefs and principles. The textbooks on an aptitude from textbooks discussing people's beliefs and lifestyles were first presented in the primary seminar of elementary school in 1989. It says: ▪ In view of the uniqueness of these factors, especially religious freedom, it is permitted to provide individual students with a separate part of high school education. At the same time, any student who receives an exception should be given the same amount of opportunity for education and development. The main study aid in 1999 and 2007 stated that Christianity was an modulating force in Icelandic society and that more than 95% of the population are registered in Christian religions and that the history and culture of the nation cannot be understood without the knowledge of Christianity, morality, and the history of the church. The main course of study in 1999 says: ▪ Christian morality is designed to shape school practices, along with tolerance and democratic cooperation. Although this is true in general of the school ministry, Christian teaching has to take special care of these factors and to work diligently to promote the moral development of the students in dealing with moral values. It is assumed that this is done in the light of Christian ethics. In addition, according to the Christianology, ethics, and religion, it is designed to promote the education and development of students and to enhance their understanding of Icelandic society and culture in the past and the present. In a special chapter on Christendom, ethics, and religion, it says: Since the time of the Old Testament, which reaches its climax in life, the work, and the teaching of Jesús Kristur, Christianity is rooted in historical events. The continuation of that story is so much the history of the Christian Church down to our day. The syllabus aim to make this historical development clear, as well as its many religious and cultural effects. An important part of this story is also the history of market - oriented people, educated and humanitarian movements. In 2007's main textbook, the main focus is the Christian religion in religion teaching, especially the Evangelical lutheric tradition. Because of the wide impact of the Bible, the religious books of Christians and Jews, on religion, morality, and culture in the world as well as in the English language, the goal of study is to increase knowledge of it. Other religions, such as Buddhism, Hinduism, Islam, and Judaism, are important because of their association with geography and the history of the world. The foundation of the morality established by Icelandic society is in the spirit of Christian morality. ▪ We should not be shy about saying that we are a Christian community, to be told Þorgerður of K. in November 2007 by Gunnarsdóttir of Education at the World Council on Christian Morality. Nevertheless, a minister suggested that Christianity no longer be taught as a special subject. (b) How can we benefit from Paul's letter to the Hebrews? 91/2008, therefore, had failed to teach Christianity as a special subject. At the end, I just want to go to the current primary course. Significant changes were made to a general part of the primary schools of 2011 in the time of High Priest Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter. The study of Christianity no longer exists, as shown in 2008's basic school guidelines. In the latest 2013 elementary school program, religion's presentation of teaching changed little from earlier years to that of religion as one of nine members of the community study articles. It is in the power of every school or teacher to divide the time given between these articles. In the processing of the bill, it is the opinion of the interviewers that the time is too short for dosing. There is no official agreement between the country's schools on how much time they spend in each trade of sociology. On the part of the interviewers, there are cases where Christianity is less important in religion than in other religions. Christian and religious studies have developed slowly and are far removed from the educational objective set in the mid - 16th century. However, the differences always seem to be the same, i.e. What to teach and who to take care of it. In recent decades there has been some disagreements about how to take into account everyone and how to prevent discrimination because of our beliefs and principles, but still retain the traditions that we have as a Christian community. The country's youth is entitled to become acquainted with the religions that designed the community in which we live. In many ways, the history of the land and Christianity is interwoven, so Christendom should enjoy speciality within the walls of basic schools. It is natural, therefore, that it is in the foreword of religion and religion's association with the history of Iceland and culture. The bond, Madam President, is cultural, historical, and social. It is to introduce the effect Christianity has had on our community. So it is natural to teach specifically about the dominant religion of the land. This makes students lock up in Icelandic and Western culture and culture. So said, Mr President, I'm referring the case to what. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u57	A respectable president. I've got to say, as far as what's going on in the transmission speech is concerned. 3.m. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! Þórarinsson, son of Thorin, and in the transcription of the bill, I can't say that I'm anything terrible against this matter. My stand is that it is not a matter of primary importance whether it stands for Christianity and religion or not. I think that the goal of the bill is already in religion education, for I don't know that there has ever been a disagreement in Iceland that the basic religious teaching program has special emphasis on Christianity, the Christian aspect of religion, just for the cultural and historical reasons. A senator did well in his speech. So in a material sense, I do not disagree with what causes. That's what a senator's got to do with it. The question of whether Christianity and religion are unique, therefore, is a question that I am not completely aware of, but I am quite certain that it does not matter to the extent that we all agree on the purpose of the words that are there, regardless of who they are. The reason I decided to give this talk and to discuss it is not in itself to object to many of the points discussed in the frontnote talk or in the covering of the bill. There are some things that I could reason on, or I don't completely agree, or I have a different view or something similar. I don't want to waste the audience's time on everything I disagree with. 3.m. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! O, an end of plenty to take. However, this case, in my opinion, involves a fundamental question that we have not dealt with in Icelandic society, whether it is in primary education or otherwise, i.e. how and whether people distinguish between what is true and what is false. This may sound so obvious that it is strange to mention it specifically, let alone in a Senate speech. But if I had to choose just one smell of what I think is important for high schoolchildren to deal with and for adults to deal with, after learning all about religion in Iceland and elsewhere, it is the question: How do you make a distinction between what is true and what is false? Is it really possible, or is reality simply our perception? I think that extremely many people simply stop there and think: Yes, this is simply all our perceptions, and that is why it is really empty talk about going to correct other people when it comes to absolute truth. It even seems arrogant to say that something is simply true or simply false. A respectable president. We are so lucky that after all the religion of the past, we have something called a scientific method today. It is not Christian, with all due respect for people who share that religion. It's not Islam, it's not Judaism, it's not Buddhism. It's not even wickedness, if that's what it's all about. It is a scientific practice that made modern society what it is. And that's important, that's what it does. What makes us scientific is that we can distinguish between what is true and what is false, at least in a certain way, at the same time give certain conditions. The first thing philosophy would tell us about it is that a scientific approach to anything cannot be applied. And that's right, that's true, and there's a lot of hard, interesting, and important questions that can't be applied scientifically. But there are things that can be placed under it. What I notice in human society is that even when it's cleared up, there are a lot of people in our society, not only basic schoolchildren, but also adults, who somehow do not accept the scientific conclusions. True, the first scientific approach that tells us, in fact, what it gives us, is that our conclusions can always be wrong. It is, in fact, the basic precept for examining scientific matters, and the claims can be challenged. Otherwise, they are basically meaningless in scientific terms. If I say that a small bottle that I let go falls into the floor, it'll have to translate something if it doesn't fall down and if I start to explain it in some other way, we'll lose our ability to do what we're saying, we'll lose control of what it is we're trying to do, whether it's true or not. In my opinion, general lack of knowledge and lack of respect for scientific techniques is nothing less than a disgrace, not just in Icelandic society, but in the general world. This may seem rather cruel, given all the technological advances and discoveries we have made in a scientific way over the years. But there is still quite a part in Iceland of adults, even well educated in some sheriffs, who just isn't quite convinced of it, no absolutely certain whether the theory of evolution is basically right or not, whether animal species is developing from one to another. If we based, not on a culture that was designed so much Christianity, but on Islamic belief, I could say that the group was much larger, yet there is a contradiction between the theory of evolution and the majority of the great schools of Islamic doctrine, in fact, with the premonition that it is quite different as Christianity. What a respectable president. There is no doubt that the earth revolves around the sun, no one we listen to at least. Similarly, very few people doubt that the earth is round, very few people. There are people who believe amazing things. But if I went to the East and told people that the earth was round and around the sun, people would just nod their heads or wonder why I was saying such a simple, obvious thing. That is because there are two things that do not contradict what people want to believe every day. In the past, people objected to scientific evidence. That's how people work. That's what I often feel is missing from our conversation here in the Hall when we speak about the truth and lie or respect for the facts, that people in general give themselves the right sense of their senses, and that they are relatively easily able to distinguish between true and unproved. And because of this misunderstanding, mankind has been so terribly wrong about so terrible things, almost everywhere and almost always. Our Source from that world was not a Christian religion or Islam or Judaism but a scientific method. When I read 25. the law about the elementary school that this bill suggests to be changed, it in the eye of a little bit that nothing in the main course takes place, that, when I get the most, on this principle of how we value the reality in which we live. For example, in groups and groups of communities, they believe that they have so readily access to the true, that the right, even infallible, in evaluating the difference between the true and the virgin, they do not practice the union, the harsh and the time - consuming, and not the obvious tactics needed to make this distinction true and unsatisfactory. The result is that we are often simply arguing about, or at least reasoning on something that is a matter of fact, to make up a document of 5 or 10. It is a fact question that does not depend on our values or our viewpoints, whether we speak correctly or we do not speak correctly. Whether it is deliberate or unintentionally does not even matter until we are at least aware that we were going to try to believe what is true. And this is not clear by learning religion or Christianity. Now I cut off the area where we are talking about Christian instruction and its role in our community and religion that it is worth considering how that model works to distinguish between true and virgin, how you will be rewarded for believing one thing or cruelly punished for believing another. Is that the right model, Mr. Honorable President? If we are going to overcome some scientific problem, for example, if we are going to work on it. To find out from any layer of earth, or something like, what kind of rocks it is, and to say that I would suggest this method: We're going to make the scientist who says that this layer of earth's crust is made of gold, we're going to make that individual very rich and put it on a ledge. But we're going to punish the scientist completely horrible who dares say that he's just a miserable rock or something else that I might not like. This model would be completely crazy, a respectable president, obviously. However, it is a model that is almost standardized among the world's largest teaching school of the world's most widely held religions. I think it's a problem. I think it's strange at least because this is no way to approach the truth, it's no way to distinguish between true and virgin. I would like to see in the main course something to deal with this problem, how we human beings let their convictions be governed by what we want to be true, or whether we are rewarded for believing one thing or punishment for believing another. It would be, I suppose, just so beyond what seems natural to me to be doing a lot of talking about here in a pita, going into what effect this model, which I described here, has had on people in Iceland over the years. I could take an example, as this model of truth causes serious problems, emotional, social, and personal problems. People in general do not have much to talk about their experiences with them; they prefer to put their time on something else; or they simply do not dare because of fear of social judgments or consequences or simply do not tire of them. I have full respect for all that, of course, but as I say, that's just what I want to talk about today. A respectable president. To finish this on my positive notes, I do not in itself disagree with the basic theme mentioned in the Sermon on the Mount. 3.m. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! Þórarinsson, the son of Thorin, was here before, i.e. that in primary education, to understand our culture and history, we need to understand Christian science. I understand that, and I agree with that. I think it is obvious that when we put religion in the main course of study, the emphasis on Christian science, or Christian history, is in place for this reason. Hv. A member of the body specifically mentioned that preaching to Christians in high school was not part of the task of missionary activity. I like hearing, and I agree, and I'm glad we're all here at the Generals. That's good enough for me, basically. But I haven't quite formed a final opinion on how I vote on this matter. I think I'd just sit by because I don't think it matters whether this word is there or not. But I wanted to come up and discuss this point because I feel that the context of the matter is as important as the believers feel their religion is.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u58	A respectable president. I measure here for a bill to sue on currency. The bill is the result of a total re-examination of currency laws and the U.S. Clan treatment laws, which depend on the specific limitations and, in fact, all administrations laid down on the basis of these laws. In the fall of 2019, I ordered a team of workers who were assigned to attack this revision. It was time to stop and evaluate the views of Iceland's currency business to remain in place, following the recovery of the capital capital cases in 2008. While the bill suggests that much simplicity in the current rights of this field, it is based on the continued control of governments that used to be comparable to that of the government. Overall, the changes should contribute to a more accessible and clearer legal environment, which should include involving fewer technical obstacles to investors. The bill suggests that the principle that currency shifts, capital movements, and payments between countries should be free. However, it is assumed that measures, which include exceptions from the principle in order to counteract the extreme instability of going-of-the-money and financial stability, are to be taken into account. The bill contains provisions that describe the arrangements that the Navy can take in order to prevent instability. There are two-fold resources, one on the other, a national response prevention device and one on the other, protection measures under specific circumstances. The governments for the national economy proposed by three kinds, all of which have a parallel in existing laws. This is the Secret Bank's permission to set the following rules: First, special commitment due to a new foreign deposit, to the free approval of a financial and economic minister, second, to loan loans of loans linked to foreign currency to non-paying Member States, to fengnuus approval of financial status committees, and thirdly to the limitations of deduction transactions where there is a foreign currency agreement, to fengnance of financial facilities. The solution to all these national eco-efficiency devices is to prevent them from building up risks that could threaten financial stability. These will help reduce the risk of experiencing serious problems with the stability of the welfare and money through more extensive and costly interventions. A respectable president. The bill also suggests that Iceland's Secret Bank is permitted to set the rules for protection measures, or what is commonly called a capital capitalist. By doing so, the SERVANT can deal with the risk of a serious disturbance of quality balance in the economy and money matters that play a role in the stability of the financial system. The proposal is basically comparable to that of the current currency laws proposed for the capital capital capital capital capital capitalised here for about a decade following the 2008 financial crisis and is built. on experience with their performance. In particular, this means that it will be permitted, under special and serious circumstances, to limit, including currency exchanges, capital movements between countries, and payments between countries, and there is a financial obligation. It is then suggested that only the approval of financial and economic ministers will remain. I'd like to make it a matter of emergency planning to put a budget head and to put it only after both economic and legal assessment of their need. It is equally important not to go beyond what they say, but it is necessary every time and always aim for them to be decommissioned as soon as possible. Although it is necessary to have authority to provide such intervention, I put hope in changing economic priorities, with more emphasis on financial status and national espionage, in order that we will never again have to resort to this crisis. But experience has taught us that circumstances can change with shame, and the dangers do not necessarily come from the direction we most expected. It is especially in the light of what is suggested in the bill that the authority to put a capital capital capital head in the law may be in danger of incurring the need to resort to it. I also want to be sure that there is no plan to use this warrant at this time. Here it is reasonable to ask, Is it not enough that meetings can be called together with shame in order to ensure a legal basis for such measures? In other words, it is not surprising that the question is, Is there any basis for a permanent legal warrant, as is suggested here? This includes work. Turn around, taking a stand on this point. As you can see, the conclusion I'm offering is that there's an option. Then there's looking for currency figures to come on, in fact, only by one blow, so to speak. It is absolutely impossible that the legal bill for currency might be allowed to walk here at the council, for example. that it would be discussed and given a proper notice, and this will be the time for three discussions, etc. As long as there was a currency bill on the currency market, it is clear that a currency market would turn completely upside down. Perhaps this is the key to the conclusion that the warrant is in existence here. But as a result of the nature of the case, a minister would have to understand why the decision was applied with his consent. In view of our rule of Congress, there should be no risk that such measures will go against the clear majority of the council's will at least not without sequelae. I may be here quite a distance from the material, but it's still quite a factor. It is a big decision to have the authority under law permanently. We did not have such authority in a permanent way in the laws that had to be used in 2008. I've brought up some of the main reasons why that is now suggested. A respectable president. The bill also contains a provision for the exchange of currency. It is suggested that only those who are authorized by the law can pass the currency exchange. However, it is suggested that the bank be authorized to authorize the operating of currency markets and thus it is assumed that such markets may be in the hands of nonprofit companies. The bill also suggests information exchange and capital movements between countries. It is suggested that those who perform currency exchanges, financial movements between countries, and international payments will continue to report their trades and movements to Iceland's National Focal Bank, which will be simplified to a very substantial degree, including the fact that the public announcements are under way. for the purpose of paying for a foreign investment in this country. It is also suggested that legislation be continued to inform Iceland's Federal Bank on further defined large currency exchanges or capital movements that are not carried out by financial companies, subsidies, electric companies, currency exchange centers, or those who are involved in currency exchanges. The objective of the announcementary procedure is to have a visual view of these movements and information that would benefit him, including the following: During monitoring, status analysis and prognostication. In accordance with the recommendations made in the Management Board of Justice on the measures against money theft and the funding of terrorism in August 2019, the U.S. government, the government's tax authorities, and Iceland's Habitat Service shall have access to this information. Finally, in the bill, there are proposals for monitoring currency and capital movement, as well as guidelines for forced custody and penalties, if the law and regulations are violated, that the Navy bank be permitted to establish on the basis of the law. This is comparable to legal documents in general in financial markets. Decisions relating to violations of the law, such as laws on wood and charges, are proposed to be taken from the Bank of Economic Affairs, which is in accordance with the decision-making and management structure of the National Bank. The bill also suggests that the treatment of customers dependent on specific restrictions will be removed as a whole. It can be said that we are watching the last signals of the old environment. These crowns were not in personal interest, but they still had specific rules that would be removed by this bill. It is of primary importance that the currency market does not need to be reinvented in a new way in the economy. In other words, it is difficult to overpower all the farm property that falls there, credits that have chosen the advantage at previous levels of refuse to participate in currency contributions, for example. These crowns have received this message after the tender invitations and made up with the wearout that they would arrive at the end of the decommissioning process. Although we have, in effect, removed the oceans from these assets, i.e. It has been possible to approach them, but they have had to go through the currency market, this is a final step in breaking off all the conditions for handling these assets. A respectful president If the bill is to be proposed by the law, a significant change will be made to the administrative recommendations in this field. In this regard, I would like to refer to a discussion in section 2.10 of the bill, which provides information on the proposed changes to the management directives. Today, there are three legal regulations on currency that are considered grounds for the mobilization. It is also planned to remove or modify most of the Council Bank regulations that apply in this regard. The bill package presents information as a guide that new regulations on the subject of a special volume or what has been mentioned for the influx of foreign currency. The rules take into account the changes proposed in the bill on this device but are still expected to be authorised for binding but not effective. In November 2020 and January 2021, the bill was published twice in government consultations. There were reviews from the Association of Professional Affairs and the Organization for Economic Organizations. The response to the comments given in chapter 5 of the bill was given to a specialist in the penal court to evaluate the repair section of the bill. His point of view was published in the consultation puzzle with the bill bridges of January 2021 and is still available there. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to the Economic and Business Committee and 2nd. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u59	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize the use of land owned by the state for the sake of industry. About the middle of 2017, I appointed a team to shape the methodology for the use of so-called patent agreements to build up and protect the land and the natural spheres of the state by a more efficient, more efficient structure. The bill is based on proposals made by a group that suggested that a total law be passed on the use of a land owned by the State for commercial purposes. Prior to a recent pandemic, the number of tourists had increased to the country during the past few years. This increase has increased the interest and the application of services into areas where tourists can experience the natural world of Iceland, a large part of which belong to the State. This applies to any type of land, such as a peaceful region, nationalities, and other areas owned by the State. Travel services have used these regions and spheres, usually without a special price. The current legislation does not contain a special framework or setting up such agreements because of the use of the land for employment. Consequently, the government is faced with the task of deciding how to implement a government - owned arrangement and how to direct access to areas of great trouble. It is important to take advantage of available opportunities to shape clearer policy policies, as it were, that methodology should be involved in the implementation of this quality and the collection of those using land land owned by the State. The methodology based on innovation rights is believed to be a means of further investment, more economic use of land areas and increased resources, whether in tourism or other occupations. In the present economic situation, it is important to maintain an investment level and to promote greater wealth. This bill therefore suggests that the total use of land and nature bulbs will be set up with certain main objectives: a. to increase competition for the distribution of limited quality, b. To contribute to a professional plan for the use of the land owned by the State, c. To ensure a natural price for the use of land owned by the state, e. e. increasing investments in infrastructures to ensure security, visitors' experience, essential structure and facilities, e. to contribute to the deportation of services or structure, especially in the absence of official core projects f and finally protect natural protection areas and other vulnerable areas from contamination. It is not considered possible to achieve these targets without legislation. It is important that the same rules apply to the use of the entire country unless there is strong evidence to the contrary. Similarly, there should be comparable rules and viewpoints regarding payment on such a country, regardless of how a person in the State handles it. A respectable president. In chapter I of the bill, we're talking about the goals of the law, their values and their comments. Il. and III. The main principles of the bill, including, are listed in section 4. reports the three types of contracts expected by the bill, i.e. Marketing authorisation agreements, contracts and contracts. The most extensive license includes long-term accession rights to third parties for building and operating after the official advertisement. Operational licenses are similar to patents, but are less and shorter. The new contract is most extensive and is primarily aimed at ensuring the perspective of the service at a designated area if this is needed because of safety concerns. It is suggested that the use of the land be determined on the basis of a more advanced strategy where the need and options for each region are specifically evaluated. In IV,◯VI. section of the bill is detailed regulations on advertising, ads and advertisements. These provisions take into account the value of public shopping. At last, it's at the end of the World. section of the Regulation on the duties of the Minister and Regulation and on how to make the income of the contracts on the basis of the law. A respectful president If this bill is legal, it is determined that rights of innovation depend on the nature and scope of the work and on the target at any given time. One of the objectives of the bill is to create greater opportunities and better methodology for the intervention of goods because of the use of specific areas owned by the State. Then there is a number of opportunities to extend to other businesses, such as parking lots, roomers, and guest rooms that the private people can run in a practical way and with no great risk to the Icelandic state. It is expected that land should continue to be owned by the government for the job except where special contracts have been granted under the bill. It is not based on the fact that the bill will enter the area of the public rights of individuals into a free country based on laws on nature protection, which will be solely about the use or availability of jobs; this is a core issue. A respectable president. I think I was tracking all the major issues here. This may be a bigger issue than it is, and it actually represents opportunities in many parts of the country. This involves a number of factors that we suddenly faced when tourists began to grow here in the last decade, and obviously it can be cited to indicate that tourists have increased so much in isolated areas that we were concerned about their long - term sustainability. We may be aware of this in the area of Geys or Gold Falls, although these are not the best examples you might have in this regard, which is related to this bill. Still, there are a huge number of tourists, and this has raised concern about the sustainability of places. Similarly, the government has been buying valuable lands, such as the agreement on a hurricane with a glacier, and much of it is known to be interested in building a service bowl or some other situation. We have no clear law frame to support the provision of such quality as a service booth in that area. They're trying to fix it up here. I'm going to say again that Geys, and indeed Fell, are also examples of land, property, which has been bought in the past few years by the state and paid very large sums of money and the basis of prices in both places was that there were considerable potential costs in these areas and a great desire to get there. When the government needs to have a conversation with interested employers, about the use in these areas, there must be some weight to support. The best thing to do is to ensure that equality is being guarded, that there is a transparency of the requirements, and that is why it is very timely and important that we take this matter into consideration here at the council. It's stated in my case, but I'd like to reiterate it here, that we're not going into the public rights of individuals because it doesn't take place. It is expected that land will continue to be owned by the government, even professionally, except by special contracts. It may be one of the delicate factors to be done, where to squeeze the potential for job drivers into a region. Yes, the answer must lie in the main objective of this law. If we cannot continue to allow a number of companies with their clients into certain areas, because we fear the sustainable development of the areas, we must proceed with the right to use them and make some kind of business contracts in the area. This may be a reality that we did not think we were standing in front of this early century. But this is just the experience of the last of the tourists in Iceland. Of course, I could be talking about a lot of other areas. You're worried about something, e.g. From the Lau 25, between the Lander's Eye and Thorsmerk, and obviously, have gone far beyond the world. But these lands are not all owned by the government. For example, there have been a number of challenges, such as those in the Bethel family with a service booths and those who cooperate with the government are working together to save people from the dangers that the distance can bring. And we also know that in recent years, new sails have developed that attract people and may become even more popular than we have seen to this point. All of this is evidence that we meet a solid agreement frame with those who want the use of a country owned by the State for employment. A respectable president. So I suggest that once we finish the discussion on the bill, it will be referred to. The Parliament's budget and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u60	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister of advance history and for putting up this important issue because this is actually taking on a solution that is very time to deal with. It refers primarily to lawmakers, such as the Supreme Court. The minister came in. What I would like to consider is whether during the preparation of the bill there was some question about who, on either this bill or anyone else, would need to take into consideration the use of individuals in the countries of the State, whether they might be more likely to live in some other law columns or would be absolutely unnecessary. Now, the bill, as the Minister came in, is actually not taking anything to the public court that I believe is very important. Nevertheless, there may be examples of individuals who use the land for their own benefit, let's say, without any direct employment, and not as lawmakers. I'm asking if this discussion came up at work with the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u61	A respectable president. Thank you for your excellent suggestions on the purpose of this matter. There is a question about the boundaries that are drawn between employment and individual uses. It is clear that in this work it was not being looked to. That would have been a considerable larger task, but it would have been a very interesting matter of opinion. The point that I think may be the main thing to come to the surface when people dive into this discussion is what turns toward nature protection, and it has to do with these public rights and authorities to press on to it if their uses conflict with sustainable goals, etc. You just cannot see that the permission mentioned in the bill could solve that statement, but it would be more likely to activate regulations that I believe are in the laws of nature protection to narrow access to individual places, e.g. limit the number of people each day, at a certain time of the year, or so on. I think I understood the inquiry correctly as far as this is concerned. This may be necessary, but it would be primarily on some basis. It can, for example, be used. It happens, so that you take an example near the capital city, that the National Park on the Þingles does not tolerate endless numbers of people.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u62	A respectable president. Here's a bill about the use of a country owned by the state for employment, and I want to thank you for the highest degree. Foreman of finance. This bill is of utmost interest to me, and it's time to make an effort to establish a consistent rule or a policy-making framework for the administration of a state for employment purposes, rules that could, in fact, be used by fellow rural society. If successful, the bill could lead to innovation and new employment opportunities around the country. To date, such rules have been tested primarily in parks, and there have been steps in implementing such rules by law and employment implementation. This adjustment has taken some criticism. It is important to consider this matter. As mentioned earlier, I feel that the bill is timely, but in the same way, it is important that the challenge of working on a new setting, where a foundation will be laid for the future affect the working environment of those who use nature in industrialization. A foundation is being built that hopefully will exist if it succeeds. We agreed to the bill of my council that I did not see that the bill guarantees that the access and access of territories owned by the state's secure interests closer to the users. Also, rural areas in these areas cannot be identified as being a normal share in the revenues that could result from the utilisation process. Then I also feel unclear how these laws can affect the use and application of citizens in the long term. I think it is important to observe these points in the handling of the legal committee on the case. I'm not sure that the effects of using and flogging on the state of the world need to be negative, but I think it's very important to try to identify the impact on the management of the Committee. Because I've been discussing a financial committee, I find the subject of the bill evidently relevant to other committees' topic areas, e.g. Both the environment and the transport and the work programme. So you may wonder if more committees would need to be consulted, although I do not comment on the fact that a financial committee is getting the case. It is also important to look to various sources of information, institutions related to the Environment Ministry, tourism, rural areas, farmers, and others who use land today. The bill is exciting, and countless speculations arise when it is hit by a hurry, e.g. for the management of agreements for a country in the care of the EEA, National Parks, the Forest, or the Land Plant. I didn't suddenly see anything at least like that. ... ontheLightformat. In fact, I believe that this quality has already been tested in the national forests. It also raises such questions as: If income is involved, where will the income come from? So they go to the relevant institutions? And what about the accounting program for special income that would come into existence? Obviously, if this distribution of good things takes place within a park or, for example, within a park. By the forest industry, where there is an active forest keeper, there is a watchkeeper in the field. But who would monitor the work on a nation or on a nation? There are questions like this that arise. Similarly, questions about the availability of land arise. There are natural areas in many parts of the land of the state that are not in road contact, both land and region up to the mountains. But back to the warning, which is about whether it is possible to ensure that land will return income to the local community. Land and opportunity for its use are, of course, a foundation for homes living in rural areas. I realize that it can be difficult to see a company's legal home in terms of limited quality, but I wondered if it would be possible to make a requirement for the project to create certain activities in the vicinity of the new country. If distribution priorities are required, the enterprises which create more jobs in the local community at least Enjoy the distribution wherever the project's legal home is. And if companies create jobs and they exist in the nearby community, there will be a change in income and income for the countryside will be guaranteed. I think it's important to take a look into this scene. You might also want to consider whether the company will buy any service in the area or if they have someone else to work with and to look at oers if you need to choose between them. Of course, one of the main objectives of the bill was to ensure that, as a whole, the community would benefit from practical use of access to state areas. So it is only natural for me to view the interests of neighboring society in the same way if there is any way I can do that. I didn't mean to keep it much further, even if it's enough to take. I want to reiterate that this bill could lead to a more varied job opportunities in the rural area and new jobs there as well as to ensure that our country's quality will not be affected and that there will be no more than its own burden tolerance. Therefore, this is a very important issue in which a growing national application has been made in connection with tourism. Also, we must not forget that the population of Iceland is growing, and now they are, for example, the United States of America. twice as many as when I was born. Of course, the use of land is quite different from what it used to be. But I reiterate that this is a very important matter that is important to you in connection with the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u63	Mr. President. I'm just going to get a little more involved in this discussion, and I want to say at the outset that I consider the contributions to this matter very timely. We are here, in a sense, taking very decisive steps in a controlled resource use that is very important. As the bill is set, it is reasonable to assume that land use is being agreed on and that the terms of the State's use are valid. I'd especially like to make up for the fact that the bill is spoken of, as it was in 1st. 1st , to promote practical use, sustainableity, access and development of infrastructure and sectoral life in the country and then to provide equalness, objectiveness and transparency. These are all very important factors because if we truly believe that our country is a precious resource in itself and that the industry that uses the land, i.e. The land and the tickets, let's say, for the purpose of showing and enjoying the land in that way, we must view that resource as any other resource that is natural enough for the government to try to ensure that the people of the country are benefiting from it. I've talked about it before, and actually it's mentioned in the bill's paper, especially with New Zealand and Norway, and I've gone what some people would call rigid ways of controlling access, especially that popular tourist attractions or popular nature bulbs and maybe for more than one purpose, not just for protecting the place, but for the purpose of securing their experience. It doesn't matter any less. I can, for example. mention that for at least Some parks in New Zealand are the way through the National Park one policy to ensure that tourists who walk through it and enjoy nature are not constantly meeting someone, and they feel that there are a lot of people coming against them and a lot of people marching across the park at the same time. So there are ways, and it is a pleasure to see that we are taking these steps. This also helps with all plans, not just the state, but the same as those involved in this service. Prescientity is a term that has been called largely behind, especially during the past year, although it may not always be possible to do so. But it is of such importance that people know whether they have access to a designated area, how many are allowed to enter certain areas, etc. And more important, factors such as innovation and man - made opportunities for such activities as equality and transparency are being cared for in the process of distribution. This is of utmost importance and is intended to form one of the things that will likely weigh heavily on the committee's coverage. At a lecture on the bill, you may have overlooked things like, for example. Whether this is in any way a special position for the local people or a special status of those who live in either the local community or already have a business in relation to the property of the State, although it is not directly at hand or on the property of the State. However, there are potential factors that have been added to the work of the Committee. I reiterate what I said at the outset: I believe it is very time for this matter to come up and hope that it will. The budget, expected, will complete the work of this case and will bring it back into the council hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u64	President. I recommend a bill to correct a change in food law, No. 93/1995, with subsequent changes, of antibiotic use. My importers are members of the Central Party. It's not a complicated matter in itself, but it's quite important. It's two articles, or one article in itself, and with the permission of a president, I'm going to read 1. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: ...after 1 5 C.E. The law's coming up with a new article, 1 5. a, as follows: Companies with a small sale of food should ensure that consumers have access to information on food source and the average use of antibiotics for the production of food in the country. The Food Organization shall provide yearly guidance on the exchange of information on national origins and antibiotic use in the production of food. The bill is delivered for the third time, but it was last proposed to the 150th legislation Council, No. 229. The objective of the bill is to improve the exchange of information to consumers on antibiotic use in the production of food. This ensures that consumers are informed about the average use of antibiotics in the production of food in the source of food products offered for sale in grocery stores and can base their decision on the choice of food products in that source. At the beginning of 2017, the World Health Organization, WHO, published a list of antibiotic resistant bacteria, where the Agency classified the 12 family of bacteria by risk categories. In the fall of 2019, the Agency warned that earth's inhabitants are running out of useful antibiotics and encouraged the development of new drugs. The director of the Agency declared on September 20, 2017, that there was an emergency developing in the management of patients due to antibiotic resistance. The European Union reports from February 2019 to increase resistance to the strain of antibiotics at the risk of the standard treatment for gonorrhea, which is the second most common sexually transmitted disease in the EEA region. A British report on antibacterial treatments for bacteria shows that each year some 700,000 people worldwide are killed by such bacteria. On April 12, 2017, a member of the health - care department returned a report on measures to reduce the spread of antibiotics resistant bacteria in Iceland. The report includes the following: to suggest that the use of antibiotics in animals in this country has been one of the least worldwide. In this country, the prevalence of antibiotic resistance has been considerably lower than that in neighboring countries. The work group and the above British report will discuss the importance of increasing public awareness of the risks associated with the use of antibiotics. The report also suggests that the use of antimicrobials in animals, including animals, will be implemented with a wise implementation of antimicrobial policies. they will be instructed on how to use them wisely. Although the use of antibiotics and the risks of antibiotic resistant bacteria have been extensively discussed, the overall policy has been missing in Iceland. The European Medicines Agency provides a yearly report on the sale of antibiotics for use in 30 Member States. This report provides information on the use of antibiotics in the main import countries of Iceland. It is necessary to increase public awareness of the content of the report, as there has been a great lack of public information about the use of antibacterial agents in the production of food. If the public has access to this information at commercial stores, consumers can decide which countries they buy food based on official information about the use of food antibiotics. Mr. President. This is simply a matter of making it available to customers in the stores of any kind of products, such as the one that they will be able to deliver. Explain what products are from countries with high drug use. Of course, we need to consider the health of Icelanders and our animal populations. How important it is, then, that people be able to discern when they go shopping, what is in the product, what circumstances it has been in its production, and whether the amount of antibiotics has been used. As shown in this bill to correct a law change, the meaning of the source must also be clear. When you go into a store and choose a product in the basket, looking with a light of light for meaning, the product is Icelandic or foreign. In many cases today, it is very difficult to find such meanings. Some stores or producers are doing quite well, but these things need to be fixed. It is also important that we examine seriously whether it is appropriate to define in a much clearer way a country of origin, to simply put it in law or rules that a country of origin will be marked in a prominent way by products sold in stores so that it does not compromise whether it is produced in Iceland or somewhere in Europe or Asia, possibly move to another place, build up there, and something produced from it that is so sold in Iceland. Here, we're just talking about origin. Of course, we should also be able to choose whether we choose a product that has been injected much of the medicine that may affect our health. Finally, Mr. President, I'd like to wonder if an Icelandic restaurant should record it, and if not, I feel that it should be looked at in law and order, to mark on menus from where products are available to consumers. Today, it's like we don't have a choice. We have no idea in many places. There are certain locations that mark whether the food is Icelandic or imported but not from where it comes from or what the treatment of animals has been for its production and such. Mr. President. I hope the case is getting a quick cut at the council. It's a matter for the benefit of all Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-18-57.u65	A respectable president. I'm here offering a proposal for a hearing about a helicopter in Home Island. The movers in addition to me are Páll Birgir, Þórarinsson Árnason, Birgarninsson, Karl Gauti Einar Hjaltason, and Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir. Ari Trausti Guðmundsson has earlier been with me on this suggestion and has declared that he is a great advocate of the proposal, even though he has not written on the paper at the right time. The General concluded that in order to increase safety in medical and emergency flights to the Western Islands, the Director of Transport and the secretary - general would already arrange for Istavia to design and locate a helicopter in Home Island. The work will be completed no later than in 2022. This resolution proposal was previously proposed to a 149th legislation Council (121th case) and to the 150th legislation (Second 4) and is now slightly changed. In recent years, the U.S. National Guard helicopters have traveled dozens of trips to the Western Islands in hospital flights when there is no other route between land and Eyja. Hospital flights to the Western Islands account for about 100 a year, but the flight has many problems. It takes about two hours to get an Eyjafjörður from the time the alarm arrives and until the plane reaches the island. The location of a medical flight in Akureyri is almost the longest possible flight route from the country to Eyja. Weathers change as if waved hand in the Western Islands, and it happens that a medical plane set out for the island does not have a chance to land there. There may be a wide range of conflicting, cloudy heights below 500 feet, and often a challenging situation beyond the control of a medical aircraft. In such a situation, to get sick or injured in the island of Eyjah, a helicopter of the National Guard needs to be called out. The bird's helicopters have often gone under extremely difficult circumstances in the island, and often the airport is shut down all traffic and the helicopter needs to be used at Hammer Road, west of Dwarfham, as an landing site. In such cases, there is no marked area or landing pad in the Western Islands, and it is important to increase the safety of the population by building helicopters. The location of the helicopters needs to be determined in agreement with Istavia in the Western Islands, the management of HSU's medical transfers, the United States United States United States Air Force (HSU), and the Western Legion Guard. In Western countries, more than 4,300 people live in risky activities and in the most serious cases in hospitals. Birth service is being run by midwives, but the expert service of doctors is not available 24 hours a day. Thus, hospital flight is an important safety valve that must not be controlled when an Eyster's emergency occurs. There is a possibility that a helicopter will remain an important safety device for Eytar flights when the airport is shut down, a military ship does not sail, and even the island crew shut down. There's uncertainty about flying to the Western Islands. Therefore, it is important to live in such a way that the best possible facility is to be made as soon as the island airport ends because of the weather conditions that no one can handle, as in short notice in the island. A respectable president. I'm referring this case to why. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
