ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u1	Borist has received a letter from the secretary of state asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a petition for this request. 979, on registration of communications in the Ministry, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u2	A respectable president. Where are we gonna get the funding? asks the secretary of finance when business matters are insurrection and social security. He doesn't ask, "Where are we going to get the funding?" in this program when the media receives 400 million. K. or less than 180 million times. or another treasure under the government. The desalination target should be 200,000 k. and right over it if the right thing was given. It has been reduced by nearly 50% and is also associated with an increase in car strength, drug strength, vehicle support, etc. All of this has not increased for the number of years according to the pay sheet. The micro-communication Treaty makes simple requirements for the elections now: pensions increase, chicken-huding, quality of life defined, the social security system simplified, a wide variety of employment policy, appropriate adjustment of the labour market, equal access to education, increased education education education in disabled persons, essential paediatric activities, mental health care of children and young priorities, increased housing resources, building changes in housing, home service, full design of housing, access to public transportation, digital access to information, the legal basis for bioavailability guaranteed, subsidisation of psychological services, reduction of health services, improved arrangements. Right to independent life, secure capital by rights, nothing about us without us. And number one, two and three, staging a United Nations agreement on the affairs of disabled people. The most desperate and disabled people have the right to respect their human rights, and they have the right to be treated like top-level citizens, not like third-class leftovers who are always last in the government and are always asked: Where should we get the money to help you? It is not asked when we are being paid.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u3	A respectable president. As we know, this morning the S.H.A.R. rose by 0.25 points. It was pretty predictable. But in the meantime, we have a government in total denial when it comes to our financial system. This danger has been pointed out at our restoration for a long time, but we have received an audience with the government who has not wanted to acknowledge this problem. Especially when we look for longer periods of time is our concern. The system problem with the crown is simply that the inflation has gone up a lot while the economy itself is going down. The paradox in the Cabinet economy is huge. With one country, we have multiplied the inflation here while other nations that have faced the same shock are not faced with the same problem. We experience unemployment as never before when other nations are not faced with the same problem. However, because inflation has gone up and the economy is down, interest needs to be increased by the World Bank before the economy goes back on its way. Of course, this does not help our professional situation, which we truly need to support, to run faster. This upsets financial households. The risk is that growth increases will become even greater in the future. So all these purchases, especially the first purchases, have been a huge venture for them. Then, of course, this raises new questions about the debt fund. Does that raise all of it? We know that there is a 50 billion tax increase in the budget. What does this mean in addition to a longer term tax increase for people and businesses? A respectable president. This is a manifestation of a system problem that will be dealt with when long - term books are laid on the restoration of economy and state funds, something we have to deal with. We cannot allow ourselves to be in this denial anymore. We'll have to deal with this, or at last both homes and businesses will bleed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u4	A respectable president. I'm starting to look forward to a short journey into the conference hall, which I hope will soon be. But what I was going to do with this afternoon is a white book on community talk or writing that a policy-making project to 15 years of age and a plan for the next five years, but this drachma, or white book, was published in the government's consultations last Monday. The local minister should submit a revised plan for at least Three yearly, and now June, three years will have passed since the Council agreed to a accordion with the current community plan. Hence, it is happy that the White Book has come out, but it leads to a trend towards regionalization and calls for viewpoints that most people will be able to submit indications and reviews of the White Book to the end of May. After a discussion, a concierge proposal will be proposed to the Council. This plan has been implemented in broad consultations, including in the number of meetings that have been held in the last 12 months, both in the form of green books, which are located on the market, and also in white books, where the policy is submitted. Most of these meetings have now been conducted with the help of technology, which is just so important to the development of existing affairs in the community. A structure plan is and becomes an important tool to achieve equal opportunities for all citizens of the country, since no more people have lived in the settlements outside the capital area, the percentage of people living in the capital area is growing compared to the number of people who live outside it. To have powerful little and large settlements that take the opportunity to make a nation of valuable things is something of great value to society. The plan has so many interesting projects, such as analysis of emergency response, equations tools for education, staff development of high school and sustainable communities, and many more.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u5	A respectable president. We now read about an Icelandic Internet store, or an Internet store with an Icelandic connection, and a conflict about it. I'm not gonna pretend to know how that quarrel goes, but the situation is that, of course, foreign people have spent a long time at home, but they don't have the right to do it. The difficulty is a direct result of the long - term success of the Justice Ministers of the Independence Party. True, before that, there had been a bill that would normally be played between local and international. Here was the bill on the change in alcohol law, which proclaimed both the net store and the sale from farms, but the Internet store, which, of course, was the major step in the case, has then disappeared from the program. This matter of freedom does not trust the Independence Party to speak for any longer. The rocking suit, which is fine as far as it gets, is not the big thing in this context. The central issue, the healthy competitive environment, and greater market freedoms in these areas are gone. In fact, this shyness toward freedom and a healthy competitive environment is a strong theme and is prominent in the Independence Party, which often speaks in one way but operates in another. Of course, alcohol would be a child's failure to accept the laws other than other goods and products. Of course, there is a reason why certain rules apply to selling alcohol, and that is why the government, which profites immensely from the sale, is at the same time active in prevention of human health risks. However, once the government has taken the stand to sell these products, it is not entirely impossible to overlook the competitive principles, and in political context, there is also no way to speak forever about the terms of freedom but never to be true in times of trial.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u6	President. Since I received an answer to a petition about a day-old minister in 2018, where it is stated that there is no information available in the Ministry on Strength and Releasing Ministers and Ministry on Foreign Affairs and that there is no evidence that there is any information available on the removal of general daily spendings, I have been trying to understand this matter on a financial committee, what should be done to the Ministry according to the rules of daily spending. That when a minister goes abroad and gets a shuttle with the minister's car, he will not receive daily money for that car or when he receives an invitation for dinner or something like that, so he will not also receive food money for that meal. The same is true of us senators. I've been on one trip to Finland on one trip, and when I was going to reimburse them breakfast and dinner and dinner, where benets were answered, nobody knew how much to pay back. It was a little back and forth with my office, and I ended up paying $21,000. Return or so of 54,000. Part of the day's money. This was very clear about the rules that have been valid since 2009, about how the members of Congress should be treated. The conclusion was that they're not. Now that we have not yet come to the conclusion of the matter, a memo came up with a letter on the question of its status and I have suggested how to complete this case, that the Ministry simply asks for a reimbursement of the services that the Ministers have received. I'll be happy to see if this is going to get out of the season.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u7	Mr. President. Iceland's World Bank was raised by a quarter this morning, becoming 1% instead of 0.75 percent. The cause of the increase is high and persistent inflation, which has been greater and more persistent than predicted. I've recently pointed out that real estate in Iceland is a clean, smart venture. Real value has increased dramatically and has struck record since the years before collapse. Inflation is at the highest level. At the same time or never as many young people have flocked into the real estate, and I am deeply concerned that the rate of growth, the load of payment would be much higher than the borrowers expected. Someone may now feel that the increase in interest, about 0.25 percent, is minor. Not at all. The one who owes e.g. 30 million must be paid at 75,000. more growth rate per year, and unfortunately, further growth increases are likely to follow. A recent economic forecast by the National Bank is expected to be 2.75% at the end of 223 C.E. By that time, the cost of interest will be 30 million. K. The loan rate is 600,000. higher every year, or about 50,000 bucks. every month. Therefore, it is proper to be concerned about the debt of homes, especially for young people who have been eager to have their own housing. Governments cannot accept responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u8	Mr. President. It's disappointing that Iceland's Secret Bank has increased its average growth this morning, but in fact the bank may be forced to do so by high inflation. This inflation is man-made. Hv. A senator who spoke before me had a very good speech yesterday, since he scolded his colleagues at the city of Reykjavík for the lack of adequate housing. Those responsible for the lack of the supply are largely party members. paritaprevir Jón Steindór's Valdimarsson, along with the barristers who have taken Poland to make an agreement with rich men to build on the most expensive areas in Reykjavík, so that young people who are young will suffer. Understandably, a senator is concerned, unable to buy an apartment here in the capital area. But I'm glad that he's forced his companions into action last night and again because part of that dog's grave is buried. This time, there is no harm to the crown. Since January, she has been greatly strengthened, so those who shop in imported goods have no pity on them. It is of great interest, Mr. President, that the coin that may be the most stubborn one to lower is the British steroid. The British economy has been predicted to die soon after they were released from the violent relationship for the past few years. The crown has, however, grown by about a year. Since January 5%, on average and in men, there is no pity to make that reduction appear in price prices and suppress this inflation. I fear, however, that the temporary rise of the Council Bank will be on fire, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u9	Mr. President. Iceland's policy is clear, ministers have repeatedly said in the past few days regarding the attacks by the Israeli Army on Palestine. How, though, does it really appear? Let's take a look at the international scene in Iceland's declaration at a meeting of the Security Council this week, with the permission of a president: U.S.A. severely condemns all civil attacks. Gaza's rocket attacks against citizens of Israel are never justified, and although we acknowledge Israel's right to self - defense, we must demand that we be very careful and moderate in the use of power. Indeed, violence is condemned in general words. On the other hand, when the Israelites are shown a great deal of understanding, he is actually asked to restrain himself only. Whatever this is, it's not a clear policy for Iceland's support of the Palestinian people. But what about here at home? What about e.g. solidarity with those who have had to flee the conflict? During these past few days, we have heard of candidates for international protection, which the government intends to send back to Greece. That group includes some. People who first fled the situation in Gaza, had a home in Greece but again had to flee from Greece's ruined reservations. In fact, this government does not even intend that it be respectful to take their case for material treatment. How did Iceland appear to these people? Ten applicants are now applying for international protection on the street after they are thrown out by the Foreign Institute of Iceland and have taken out that production. Screw humanity and human rights. These refugees are to be starving to obedience, allowing them to be forced back into unacceptable situations in the Greek refuge system. Here's Iceland's policy: Off to god and sea. Mr. President. It is not enough to condemn violence in general but to act like a hot cat to do something really wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u10	Mr. President. The news came at a meeting. State Department this morning. The representatives of the Conspiracy, the Restoration and the Central Committee of State, listed the following at a meeting of the Committee, by permission of a president: ▪ Foreign Committee members denounce any kind of attack on civilians during recent conflicts in the areas of Israel and Palestine. Senators stress that international law and human rights are fully respected and that the public's safety is guaranteed. As a result of the fact that many children have died in the worst armed conflict in the area since 2014, there is an obstacle to air attacks. Similarly, members of Parliament regret that missiles are directed against civilians. The international community must give a clear message that weapons should be dropped immediately and that peaceful solutions to the dispute between Israel and Palestine are the only solution. Iceland has a special relationship with both Palestine and Israel. Iceland was the first Western State to recognize the independence and sovereignty of Palestine with the agreement of the Generals 2011, but Iceland also played a special role when Israel became a sovereign State in 1948. The senators suggest that the Foreign Ministers of the Northern Country jointly resort to international activities in the demand for immediate cease - fire and that Iceland's government will contribute to bringing relief and relief to its victims. It is of note, Mr. President, that the members of the left movement, as well as the forward movement, did not trust to be part of this journal submitted and approved by members of the other classes. How disappointing it is to see members of the Left Motion of Green, who have taken a firm and firm stand for Palestinians from an institution, and to the forward party, who have clear history of saying that when it comes to the independence campaign of Palestine, I refer to Steingrímur Hermannsson, former prime minister, and prime minister of the Future. This is disappointing. [[The president calls.]] It is hard to believe that those members of these classes did not rely on taking a firm stand on human rights, but they were in the heel of Independence when it comes to holding back their simple task of writing at a foreign committee meeting. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u11	Mr. President. I'm going to go back to the place where the story was gone yesterday and discuss the political bitch. I had talked only about the new appearance that has come to many independent and progressive people. They have adopted our media class paints in many matters, I mention as an example the opposition of some of them to the highland park, which they are bound by in a government covenant. But be aware that even if they speak like the middle class, they always vote for the left team. I also discussed the health system where the work is complete and the masked state domains of all its components. In fact, some of the above - mentioned classes have criticized the way to the highest degree. A health minister is on, but in a much more polite and modest way than was used against his own counsellors who have been in severe orrupted from those same left men. The independence party appears to be in a tough, self-edited fear of life. He has turned into a class of things, claims to be fighting for freedom, but he is trapped in a control couple with left greens and progressives. Thus independents have had to accept the highest standard. A health minister will engage in any autologous operation of the medical system. There's gonna be a Vöggur of trouble. Now independents rejoice that the ATSVR exclusive is changed because of holes in legislation rather than for themselves to change it, and then they intend to decorate themselves with the feathers of freedom in that matter. In the same case, restoration is a group in that it has been a member of the Controversy of the European Union, to join the European Union. Is the restoration category that they choose to join in the European Union? So, what can be said about the United States? This company is left to be part of some sort of university-enforcement union that obviously has no common name to the working class. Even the old civil terns have been expelled from the category and are homeless. Where are they going? Are they being built a home? Where is this company going, Mr. President? There's almost no difference between her and the Pirates. I can hardly tell. As a sign of this, it's two o'clock. Senators of the left green fled the government. They went into their division, one in the assembly of Pirathah, and the other in the ranks of the United Nations. However, it is not known that this difference would occur. Councilmen are a few minor differences. [[The president calls.]] Is there no difference between all these classes that have taught themselves to the left in Icelandic politics? [[The president calls.]] How do you see the difference between this class frame?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u12	Mr. President. Can we see the future here in Iceland once? Can we stop reacting and stop allowing the interests of the world to dominate us? Can we approach the work structure based on sustainable targets that take into account social, economic, and sustainability? Can we begin to respect the people's own right to resolve and make peace with them in the construction of new jobs all over the country? Yes, Mr President, I'm talking about structure in connection with fish farms. A new report on status and prospects in Icelandic fishing and fish farms reports that the value of fish farming is expected to be fivefold and to be 125 billion dollars. In the year 2030. During Western Europe, fish farms are the main source of employment growth. In addition to new jobs, the number of jobs has increased rapidly. During the following years, it is assumed that as many as 20% work west of us is directly linked to fish farming. Farmers on the West are now working on a community contract on the fish fire that will be introduced in the following weeks. Faraway policy has become an exemplary policy, but for it and the Community deal with Western society to function well, the General Assembly needs to accept laws and regulations that work with local interests and especially with citizens. It is of utmost importance that organizational authority is at the table of rural society and that rural communities work well with the inhabitants. There are all kinds of fishing policies, but there is no overall policy in fish farming as a future industry. Mr. President. We have to have good policy on how the industry is going to grow. Let us stop reacting and look to all our interests and look to the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u13	V.E.G. President. According to a PállEinarsson it is a waste to stop the lava by means of a protective park. Yesterday, rising the parks at the sodas began to rise to a height of 8 meters after the government agreed to defend 20 billion. K. ... tothework. According to a PállEinarsson this waste and no way to stop it by means of a protective park is to stop it. The news reports that the government approved for a weekend of 4 - foot - high defence parks on sodas. Yesterday, she agreed that they would go up to 20 feet [8 m] high, and they immediately began to raise the gardens. ▪ As today's situation seems, this project seems absurd. The lava that runs there is not going to go by the way people want it to go, says Páll Einarsson, who is behind a half - century scientific career and is a professor of emeriatus of the University of Iceland. He says it's lava in general. There is now a limp on these nearby fences. If the lava's going to go that way, there's a way. There's no way to change that. This lava is not going down to the Merabal Valley, says the professor, the worst thing that could happen is that it would cross the South Coast road and pass through this kind of lava, it's very easy to fix afterwards. So I ask: Why were there no contact or consultation with an expert, a geophysicist, in preparation, or in a discussion about how such disasters can be approached, as they are being done there?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u14	A respectable president. The situation at the Mediterranean level is terrible, so immediate relief is needed. Men, women, children, civilians, die every day. This is unacceptable. The International Society calls for a cease - fire, and we here in Iceland agree, of course. These horrors must cease. The strife between Israel and Palestine will not be solved with weapons. That's where the game's out of shape. An armed conflict is never a failure to solve a problem. A truce is needed immediately. International law needs respect and human rights to be respected. V.E.G. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Secretary of State has made a new conversation with the U.S. Secretary of State and other countries, who are now at the Arctic Summit to reiterate this message. The international community must give a clear message that weapons should be put down as soon as peaceful solutions to the dispute between Israel and Palestine are the only solution. We have condemned the taking of the Israelites. It's illegal. The solution to the future is based on a two - sided solution in which both Israel and Palestine express an interest in working. Most of our alliances have responded to this vision, and this has been Iceland's policy on the matter. This seems to be the only solution where there is no hope of peace in the territory to the future. No more children are allowed to die in this conflict. Parley, now.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u15	A respectable president. I can take my mind to that as a matter of course. paritaprevir In the case of war and conflict in Israel and Palestine, the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir was saying. I was going to discuss everything else. I was going to discuss housing because housing matters are human rights. It may be forgotten in a discussion of growth and growth rates, inflation, and insecurity of loans and trade markets to all, it is necessary to keep shelter over the head. So I think it would be reasonable to ask, " Should it be head - to - head to take a place where money is most important, whether it is fair for a strong person to buy a house on a burn sale, then to sit in it without even renting it out, make a lack of money, and then sell it with a lot of money; whether prices alone should determine where people choose to live, and if we don't want to be with a human housing market where people need to go to go to, not to the market, and not to pay money? ' We have indeed moved toward the humanitarian housing markets over the past few years by building in the general housing system, changes in rents, and share loans. During the next term, we must continue that journey. We can, for example. Ask yourself, " Do people like Dana and the Norwegians follow the example of other nations and set conditions for housing so as to ensure that financially strong people do not take shelter without renting out? ' We're supposed to put increased power in the construction of public apartments and create their system across the country. Even an even greater space of income may be considered when the system allows it. But it also matters who are in charge. In VG, we will certainly use our resources to create a housing market that will provide for all decent housing with community solutions and the basic idea that housing is human rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u16	V.E.G. President. In the past year, the incidence of events in BUGL has increased by 303/40%. More eating disorders have occurred, as well as serious Internet isolation issues. We who set the course, elected agents at the Council, and in the countryside, need to ask ourselves, " Why has this trend become? ' By the time of last year, Björn Hjálmarsson, an expert on the BUGL, was quoted as saying that a lot more children and young people had entered the department this year than at the same time each year. Waiting lists are extended both to Reykjavík and to the Children's Hospital Department in Akureyri. In an interview with a scientist, Björn Hjálmarsson says that we may be experiencing the effects of the collapse of the bank or that this is the result of the isolation and failure of schools in Covid. It tells us how important our schools are. And Björn adds that there is a potential for increased monitor use in children and young people. Despite our knowledge of monitor addiction in our analysis systems, I want to address Björn's plea, there is no need for children and young people to enter public health research and public health checks. I want to challenge the surgeon general to respond to this plea. Therefore, I welcome the work of the Children's and Social Affairs Minister on reviews of subjects relating to children and young people by both necessary system changes and increased funding. We're dealing with addiction, monitor addiction. We seek approval, approval, and belonging. How should we help our children and young ones, who desire as much as we adults, or more, to get all the recognition involved in their transactions and doctors? Do they need all this challenge, as in the latest game of the summer, where you get 2 points for a friend request, 5 points for sending a ◯fex-picture--it is now not likely here--10 points for queries on Snapchat and Instangram, etc., up to 40 points, and then a man to share it. The political groups map people who can be selected, but who are the ones that map our children?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u17	President. During the sessions of the assembly, which was about to be completed, the program took place. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryenlfóttir to be booked at night. The Foreign Affairs Committee of several members of the Committee, but what? One senator concluded that the material attitude of some members of the committees toward the fine text she used here was such that, as she put it, they did not rely on it. I don't think it's an impossible way for the members of the committee to find it. The purpose of the books of the Council of II is to book on how to handle certain cases, warnings otherwise made by members of Congress. Otherwise, members of Parliament take a stand on matters of any nature, not with the books of this kind, but on the matter here in the Senate Hall. That's uncool, I think, weighed, including. to the maximum. When it comes to government, members of the members of the administrations did not trust to participate in such books.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u18	Mr. President. I'm going to use this opportunity to do what I had basically informed myself that I would do, and it's coming every day, reminding me that it's been five months and better since the Council asked for a report from the Supreme Court. A top-prior of the world's seas to include information to the council and to the Icelandic nation on the investments of the largest commercial industry in the United States. I only have 20 seconds left, so it's not enough to recite the list I know there is. Making this report is not an amazing task. I know. However, it can be a very complex political solution for the three categories that protect this arrangement, about the ability of our largest companies to take over the country and the ticket. But we wait and it's been five months and two days tomorrow, five months and three days. [[The president calls.]] But more about that tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u19	V.E.G. President. Five months and two days. I'm getting longer, like a dog. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's son, after being answered from the highest level. President: What does the worm hold in this important matter, which can paint a definite picture of evolution, including: In Icelandic professional life? I want to impress a president on this important matter, and there's not much left of the council, not unless the government has something to hide about the exact holding, not just in Icelandic sea transport, but in general Icelandic employment. It is important that this should come as soon as possible, and these government groups will not be sitting on another report until the election is over. But hiding what is unpleasant would not be new. The second is that it is also not new that the independent party does not want to touch difficult situations, and it is quite different if members no longer have books on the subject. The Foreign Affairs Committee on Important Matters, despite the fact that it is in the Treaty not to promote the way and respect of the council, especially in view of the application of their conscience in such matters. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Putting a little pressure on the project, that's what the Commission itself is afraid of, on the part of the legislature.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u20	The president does not intend to get involved in a panel statement on what is being reported, but he wants to state that at least he needs to make a statement. not to be under appeal in this case, because as a reporter well knows, the president has applied himself in it and in consultation with a reporter, in order to pay the streets of the report to be quickly answered, to set out better information for the report and the period it will take. In the letter sent by the president on that occasion in the Ministry, it was specifically stated that this was hoped that, according to the more careful coverage of the report and the time, it would be possible to answer the report quickly and well. A better explanation could hardly be used. This is just what the president wants to do for his own good, but in other respects, people can discuss it as they please, to every day because of me.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u21	Mr. President. You're absolutely right at the highest. President. When messages were received after the end of a tenth week, which is the time that everyone is given to report such reports, that the request had to be determined better, the president quickly and clearly entered it. Then it's been ten weeks since, and my paraphrase words here were as if they were not for the President but for him to continue helping and using this case, they didn't include any judgment that he wouldn't have done so so until now, so he did in this way that I've described here. But that does not change the fact that it is now well over a double period of time, so perhaps there is a reason for the highest cause. A president getting back in, it may have to happen every ten weeks over an unpredictable future. But we'll see about that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u22	The president has a number of problems so that he is too busy to provide assistance to the report but would otherwise have been interested in the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u23	A respectable president. This is a report from the Independence Party, the Central Party, and the forward group that are joining in on it, and there's nothing wrong with that. But of course, I have to admit that I have premonitions when it comes to the affairs of consumers and the Contestants, that these groups have that goal in mind. But all right, I'd like to agree with a lot of things that are going on there, that the rules of fusion should be checked, the direction of the Contestant Board, and the competition. and the duration of treatment. So it's a little strange that at the same time as this institution puts as much up to the expense of requiring a faster treatment period, I encourage the press to examine that point in particular. I'm going to say yes to this request for a report because I think it's appropriate. The other thing is, I don't know that consumers and consumers have been pushing their fingers into the work of the Contestant Board, but the basis for this request is the dissatisfaction of the enterprises because of the Contestance Board's activities. Is it unusual that the companies are in some way disgruntled or disagree with the way the Contestance Board operates? [[The president calls.]] As long as the rules of the game are clear, and the Contestant watch gets sources and funding to follow through, we have to take care of that. [[The president calls.]] I will say yes to this request and will observe, more dignified President, whether this request will be submitted before the request. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín's Friðriksson for possession in a fishing road
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u24	Mr. President. The competition is an enormously important organization in our community. It is most reasonable to examine its activities, as do other institutions, which we jointly run to look after the interests of our citizens. It is noted, however, that in this detailed request on certain matters, it is not entirely stated how the survival and funding of the Agency may affect the handling of these matters. I especially miss the fact that reporters who are very interested in obtaining a good diagnosis will skip such important factors. If you don't have the money or the human resources to do the work, they'll take a long time. Is that not a reasonable conclusion? I challenge the reports requests to make sure that these items are taken into account when the report is completed, but I will support the report request.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u25	Mr. President. I will, of course, support this request. I usually think reports are good and useful for information to all of us. Still, I wondered, " What is the motivation behind it? ' The Contestant Guard is the agency responsible for securing a very powerful career, a healthy job, in behalf of all operators, not just some. It's important to the consumers of the country. Why is competition important, and why is it important to get close to the huge parties that can prevent SMEs from cleaning up in Iceland? It's all for the sake of the public, of the general interest in the public, in terms of special interest. [[The president calls.]] I wondered why the government is doing so hard to reduce the possibility of any monitoring in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u26	Mr. President. The northern policy we have here at the council today suggests 19 focus factors on environmental and sustainable, security, search and rescue, economic instruments and infrastructure, science, innovation and employment structure, but all aims to protect Iceland's interests and ensure the well - being of the population of the north. New Arctic policy emphasizes the importance of North-Europe in Iceland's interests, and more than the importance of international discussions due to rapid environmental change and climate warming. Thus, the issue of the north is more consistent with our national talk and will likely be the focus of politics here in the coming days. Here is a northern policy taken in transpirotian reconciliation. I want to thank you for your cooperation in the policy-making team.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u27	A respectable president. It is good to see the extent to which there is a solid agreement here in the conference hall regarding our northern policy. Arctic affairs are an important group that has been increasing in recent years, and we can especially see this in the attention now given to the North Pole meeting. Therefore, it is important that we have a clear direction that will take place not only in our territories but also in threats. I'm just gonna congratulate us all on this course. We must make sure that it is followed in the years ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u28	Mr. President. I come here to express my pleasure in the release of this case. This is a parapolitic policy, that is what is so important, and, of course, a compromise as it goes and happens. There is a great deal of strength in the solidarity and responsibility of this work because it is a key issue in the fight against climate change. It is important to see as much as possible a plan of action on the basis of this policy. It is the next step of the Generals and others to make sure that it is done. I'm here to celebrate this payment, and because this fine Senate resolution is going to fly through.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u29	President. This is a fine conclusion after the work of a senator group who worked on this convolutation. I give special emphasis to her 1st point: To actively participate in international cooperation on northern issues on the basis of the values guided by Icelandic foreign policy, including of peace, democracy, human rights, and equality Of course, when we take that number in the North Sea, we should also do so in other territories. I direct them to the government and remind them to take an active part in international peace cooperation, including In matters pertaining to Israel and Palestine.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u30	A respectable president. I want to like others especially thank you for your cooperation. This is a transnational cooperation, a joint decision by members of the council here, and I was representative of the project at work. I think this is important because the guidelines in this policy are important for peace and democracy and that we are actively involved in this cooperation because our voice is important to Icelanders. I want to thank the Chairman of the Committee, what? paritaprevir The spirit of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, especially for strong and good work. But it matters, because these elections are now, that this will not just be some drawer piece that will be replaced when new classes sit at the government, which hopefully will be. This is a document I hope to live beyond election and into the next predictable future. However, I would like to make sure that I was present this weekend at the spring council of NATO. On, and I want to reiterate it here, that, despite our clear direction - with the Arctic Council, with the Arctic Council - it does not free us, including as participants in NATO, from the fact that NATO also has a more efficient defense in the north.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u31	A respectable president. Here we are going to vote on a matter of tradition. Where are we gonna get these 400 million? With a cut in your social security? By surgery of the health system? Or should we borrow? That's what I'm saying. The secretary of finance is already helping those starving in Iceland to live in very poor health. Why don't we start there? Should we not begin by making the media healthy as well? That's the first step, isn't it? Taking on the advertising market, VOLV? Are the foreign media being dealt with? Let's start there. But to start by throwing money into private media, even owned by rich people, is the most ridiculous thing we do. I say no. Although the smaller part has a nanobon proposal than the greater part, 50 million are just as clever to put in the U.S. media, 50 million are way too much. They're not supposed to get anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u32	A respectable president. You're right next door. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson to the lesser part has a better suggestion, and I expect her to be accepted as well. The fourth power to strike. A fourth power is a tremendous support in our democratic society, and this support must be valid and must be sufficient. The bill responds, and we in the United States are going to support the bill. Yet, we have a new arrangement that is focused on a lower strength, and others are replaced by a greater or fewer growth. As we support the United Nations, we also want to contribute to the diversity of the media markets and to believe that their diversity and diversity are very important, and even more important, in the media market than in other countries. It is also a sunset theme that we resist because we feel it is very important that there is a measure of leadership in the management of the media and that there is no such remedy for the environment in one year that there is usually a reason for such a sunset plan. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u33	Mr. President. I'd like to express my joy that this embarrassing case of the government should come back to our committee on our request. So we will not stand in the way of this vote that it will be, and we will sit by. Our final attitude toward this matter will likely be carried out on the 3rd. when it becomes clear what the fate of the matter will be in a global and educational committee today, but we have asked that as soon as the new issue is resolved, it will be observed. The members of Óli Kárason's son and Brauns Níelsson's son, as well as the proposals of our Middle Classes, must be considered where we suggested that a certain portion of the radio fee be released so that consumers could decide for themselves what media this amount would flow.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u34	A respectable president. I think that in the ground, you can say about this matter that the goal is good, but the thing is bad. Now that the matter has been called back to the committee, hopefully to change, and hopefully we will finally begin to discuss the core of the matter and the reason why the situation of the Icelandic media is in the way of testing. I hope that the conclusion can be that we are building a natural, healthy competitive environment that will contribute to and prolong the media. So I'm going to stick to seeing what the outcome will be before I take my final stand on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u35	A respectable president. In view of the tremendous mismanagement that private media can have in the Icelandic commercial market, I feel that I would be justified in resorting to the actions of this bill temporarily, with clear sunset rules so that nothing can take special advantage of the two most severe sludges here, i.e. a great campaign of Kingdom News on this market and the new history of tax-free and mandatory foreign companies on the same market. Both of these issues are now being revised, and I hope that the time available for this sunset arrangement will be sufficient to find these matters a more righteous course, so that no government support is needed anymore than that time is available for private media in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u36	President. It's very important to support the media. As I've mentioned before in this pont on the press freedom of speech and freedom of expression under attack in Iceland. A recent report from the press without a border was published in which Iceland had taken its place in terms of freedom of media in this country. That's an amazing sad fact. It has been called after a series of efforts to support the media for many years, not just during this ultimatum period. This was also done when judges died at the European Court of Human Rights, where it was said that the right to speak had been violated against journalists'freedom of expression. I'm sorry that this bill does not take note of the comments that have been received and especially from the media's memory that have clearly stated that these strengths will not really benefit them in any way. All this money is going to the biggest media. That's why I can't help sitting by. I hope this is going to improve something on the Committee for the last time, but this is just way too small a step to ensure freedom of the press in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u37	A respectable president. The goal of the bill is good, and surely all of us can agree on it. We must also agree that this bill will not completely change the media environment in Iceland. We need to do more. V.E.G. The Minister of Education has even. appointed group to reexamine the role of RUS, not just from a commercial market, but from many other factors. This is also a Covid operation. Third, the majority of the members of their committee party need to be considered regarding the taxable environment of the foreign air force at any given moment. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon explained quite well earlier. This is the way it goes, and I think we can join ourselves to vote for this matter now. But then, of course, we need to keep on doing this work and make the media around us, making them viable. The objective, as I say, is to strengthen democracy in Iceland and inform the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u38	President. There's 400 million in private media here. The problem I see is that most of the money is going to the press that is deliberately in the corner. It's an unsuspecting business where their owners don't care about the media because they have just bought the media to cover their own interests. This sliding is simply a part of them politics and a conflict of interest. With this bill and this exchange of 400 million, we are simply helping them pay off that pitch. We're not expanding the United Kingdom press, making more and better news about this 400 million. We would be doing so if we were to follow the suggestion of the smaller section where the roofs were lower. That's what this is about now: Should we pay off the exchange of these special resources on the media, or should we really go to a better news transfer?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u39	A respectable president. It is difficult to define what is good news, we may not all feel the same thing. We've taken this case into account, me and what. paritaprevir The Steinunn of Þóra the Year's Árnadóttir. Nevertheless, in view of the reports received and the comments of the visitors who came to the General and Education Committee, we feel that it is more reasonable to go this way this time. Underscoring is the setting of the sunset to allow time, as mentioned above, to improve the quality of the above and of the other factors mentioned, e.g. taxable environments, using Facebook, Google and all of the information we know, are pulling their feet down. I think it needs to be done now. It is true that this has been a difficult time for the fourth power, such as many other companies, and I believe it is our duty to try to communicate with these media so that they can maintain the criticism they should do. I'd like to mention it here, too, that I can totally support myself in the future. [[The president calls.]] I'm not saying we have nothing to do with the press. This work may reveal whether smaller media, which are very desirable in the scattered areas, need help to clean up. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u40	A respectable president. It was surprising to many that the State Radio was not mentioned a single word in the case presented here, and I welcome the People's proposal that the matter is called to a committee between 2 and 3. Some others were expected to have made that suggestion in case of a mistake. paritaprevir Sæmundsson would not have done that. The three issues discussed on the committee should be discussed as a whole in order to get some intellectual bottom of this matter. But I'd especially like to point out the fourth item the committee must establish, which is the Senate Committee on the issues of the RUS. Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Shira Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, and Páll Magnússon. Hv. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon mentioned earlier that it would be hoped that this committee would complete its work before this issue is resolved. There will be no other understanding than a suggestion that this case will come through the 3rd. At the very end of this council. Clearly, the time frame the sun's setting is not being watched because at least Two of the three members of the Senate Committee do not seek reelection. So it must be in connection with the current council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u41	President. This is an extension of authority to replace the requirements for resting hours and the working nights of employees who provide personal assistance to individuals who are used personally. I'm not signing this committee opinion and I'd like to explain why. I'm sure Marty and I will support the situation, but I just don't want to take responsibility for it somehow. It has been extended four or five times. I have lost count on how often the provisional principle has been extended. A committee study of December 2018, by permission of the president, states: ▪ The Court takes the importance of the assessment of the work environment of employees who are acting in personal assistance and that a clear policy on the future work environment of the service will be established. It's going to be two and a half years ago, Mr. President. Clearly, a minister has given up on the task of finding a permanent solution for this solution and has just rolled this over to the next minister, unfortunately. [[The president calls.]] It would have had to be resolved a long time ago, really before the law went into effect. It is kind of irresponsible that the solution has not been resolved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u42	A respectable president. Once again, we're voting on this matter. Every time you come up to vote on the case and back it up, you think it's the last time. I really hope that this is the last time, that now they're gonna get ready to make a deal and finish it. It can't be that complicated. It's very annoying to have a year after unsolved case about the MPA environment. It has to be over now. I really hope we're at the last time paying for that vote. I'm back on the case now, but I'm most afraid it'll come back in a year, once more.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u43	Mr. President. I agree with the last speakers. Of course, it is unacceptable that we are here year after year to label an extension of a relatively simple matter, but sadly that is the case. Last year, on the same occasion, sent out a sledgehammer. A statement made in the committee's article of the case that challenged the highest level is a corrosion of the well - being committee. Minister of Social Affairs to finish the case, he had when he introduced the bill, said it would be over the last summer. It did not turn out to be. This time we decided to have a valid date for April 1 next year and not for the year because, in fact, the contract has been off from the years to the day. Of course, in the United States we support the extension, but this situation is completely unacceptable, both to users of the ministry, to user-controlled personal assistance, and to those who work there.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u44	Mr. President. There is good reason to agree with the members of the council that the issue has been overdue for far too long. I believe that the committee was somewhat intervening in its view that it is not possible to continue on that course. On the other hand, there is no condition, there is no position. Hence, the provisional principle is extended, but the committee of bitter experiences decides to make adjustments in the process of extending a rather longer temporary law than previously required to give governments the extent to which they should, most important, need to complete the matter in cooperation with its members.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-19-98.u45	Mr. President. I agree with the people here who have spoken of how bad this situation is. I agree that it may be interpreted as a surrender that year after year this is the way to go. I also agree with the vice president of the welfare committee that nothing can be done for the committee. Therefore, the Parliamentary Party will support the situation. But I'd like to add agile to the words you're talking about. I don't think it's disrespectful. I find this disrespectful to users of this vital and necessary service, and I find this disrespectful to the staff who provide this vital and necessary service. It's not a very complex solution. You just have to be interested in solving it. It's a shorter baptism that goes through the council year after year, and it's just not acceptable. We need to finish the case, but we will support yet another extension in the belief that the next secretary will handle the project.
