ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u1	The President has received a letter, dated December 2nd of December, from Inga Sæland, 7th. Smoke. s., where it resigns as the third vice president of the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u2	President. We found out about five o'clock yesterday, just after being mentioned, that the budget bill had been sent for review, for the review. I didn't even know that a budget had gone into operation. I'm on the committee, and there's no meetings or anything like that. I find it very interesting, therefore, that before the committee can actually come together and decide that at least... A time of recounting, for it is now the committee that determines him. On the other hand, it seems to me that this has only been decided with the chairman of the committee. That's what I'm calling after. The chairman of the budget board, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, came up here and explained what really happened, how this can be classified as an alternative to arbitrarily controlled work immediately at the beginning of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u3	A respectable president. Now we need to consult the president's office and please ask the president to request it to the members of the government here at the General Assembly that they show some respect for this remarkable institution in their jobs. It is not an option to start the work of the Generals in such a way that they ignore the rules. There is no record of sending out a request for a review even before a matter is presented in the Senate Hall. It is the committee that decides together. In this case, what has been the result. The panel was not called together, and it is prerogative that the member of the board there requested that, if so, be sent out from house to house at four yesterday.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u4	President. I'm going to take on this worry, and I think it's really weird. I wondered: Was it the first act of the new Board of Directors of Fundament calling for references to matters that have not been measured, without convening the members of the Committee? As far as I know, it is reasonable for the committee to be called together, even discussing the length of time to give out the reviews and the other things. This is strange to me, and I think it's a sign too -- it's just one part of so many, it's one piece of so many puzzles that shows a certain image that I think is a little risky about divulging out the Senate. Is it some kind of blindness from the board? Can they not see how they act? This is a site where the right of control is being undermined. The Senate is being undermined by such steps. I feel that the president should take this for and ask the chairman of the budget board to come up here specifically and explain his decision. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Where does it say in the council that this is possible?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u5	A respectable president. It's drawing up a picture very quickly and it's becoming very clear to me. We read it and we'll see this morning that before the Senate committee meets and has the opportunity to perform its legal function, members of the Continental Ministry are indeed thanks but not to the unscrupulous government, starting to file a case for review. It's not according to Congress and Congress regulations. The film that is drawing up - I don't remember, and was here at work for some time, that it was in the last 20 years that the committee had been appointed with a great deal of reference, as is now being done. It's a certain message. There are certain messages being sent with these devices now into the council. I'm sorry about the government's beginning, but especially that there's a special stress on the present respectable president in how to handle this situation. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to encourage the highest. To take this seriously, a president directs the greatest honor of the Generals and gives us the role to play with the Commission. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u6	The president begs members of the Parliament to respect speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u7	Mr. President. I chose yesterday to think of it as an innocent mistake with President that he would be able to screw up his welcome. I chose him and assumed he will work for all of us here at the council. At this point in northwestern Europe, at least People have generally viewed democracy differently than many other countries, i.e. We really respect smaller things, too. It is not that a winner takes everything and has everything and may do it all. In any case, there is a new concept of Icelandic democracy. So here it is that the president enters and ensures that now and in the future, the smaller portion, which has 40 and some percent of the population behind him, at least His rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u8	Mr. President. In the Treaty of the First Government of St. Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, it was published by the European Parliament. The expansion of the Generals was what was going to happen. It doesn't seem to be the course now, just the opposite. It's amazing, a respectable president, and something that must have to be taken firm in the council's administration that the greater part is going perfectly by everything that must be considered normal cooperation in Congress on the first day. On the first day, the more part decides on its own to send out a budget. The solution would have been very simple, Mr. President, you could have called the committee together and asked: Hey, guys, how about sending this out for reviews and giving people a little more time to write them down? It would have been possible just by a short meeting, but much of it's been bitten by his getting his way without having to talk to the rest of us. [[The president calls.]] It's dangerous, Mr. President. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u9	A respectable president. I'm just gonna apologize for my mistakes as the chairman of a legal committee and accept them. I was told that it was customary and had been for decades regarding the reporting process of the budgetary committee, and then it would have been settled at her first meeting whether or not to add, etc. But it's true that it's not according to the prockey. But this, as I say, has been done for a very long time, and I just thought I was continuing what has been done. I admit it's a mistake, and it's my mistake, and I really hope we get together on a budget to work together well, even though it doesn't start well on my part.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u10	A respectable president. Clearly, we have received an explanation for this amazing matter. It must be a question mark, and it must seem odd when you haven't really studied the financial program, you've barely made it, when even the reporters in town have started working on it. I think we can't afford to do this. We have to start showing respect for the Generals. We talk about respect for the Generals, but while there's this kind of work, it's not there to be respected. We have to start changing the tactics around here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u11	A respectable president. I really wanted to yell at you all over here, but I'm done with it. I'm going to take an apology from the new chairman of the budget board and thank her very much for coming up here and acknowledging this mistake. It's, for fun, like we may have yesterday; taking on a new job may be a little tricky, but fall is good, and I'm hoping as a member of a budget board that this will only be for the good. But the look is really bad, unfortunately, really bad. So why don't we just try to be a little optimistic and hope that this is a warning example and not be repeated? Because it's very special, I have to admit that the committee has never met, and we haven't had a chance to nominate the parties that we would have liked to get in charge of the budget. But thank you, boy. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, to come here quietly and admit this mistake.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u12	Mr. President. The laws are very clear: this is not the way things should be done. This is the first time that the committee has discussed a case that this decision is made. And a committee will be discussed when it has been discussed here at the council. The wise men say that the name of the new government is now a game master of burning light. I'm not sure that they like the name that seems to be getting stuck, and that's the government of the various boundaries of law. But here's what. The chairman of the legal committee came up, declared his ignorance of matters, which I find quite peculiar in the light of working age. But all right, that apology is accepted, agreed, certainly, of course. But hopefully here, what cannot be described as different from the abuse of power on the part of the new government, which will be said to start well.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u13	A respectable president. I think it's important to put the dots in context here. All of this begins with fall elections. Despite the fact that everyone knew, when the end would come, political talks were reduced. Then we will see what power is being put on the committee, something that has not happened for decades. And now this. It's all part of the same manifestation. On the day of sovereignty, it was at the height of its power. The prime minister here with the message that the members of Congress work for the entire population, seen from class lines, that it should be guided into this terms. At the same time, however, they are so instinctive that they do not consider the chairman of a financial committee to look to the council on how to work within the committee. The committees are the Senate.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u14	V.E.G. President. This doesn't start out well, and I'm worried about this beginning in the long-term race of one terms. I accept the apology of the new chairman of the budget board, but the beginning of this election period and the beginning of the council here is characterised by luxuriantness. I am still recovering from my experience here, observing how the greater part decided to take over committees and go all the way to their majority power. This has not occurred in the high Council since the last century, President. I request the new President of the Generals to see that this work is done with full respect and integrity in cooperation with more parts and smaller parts and must be respected by the Generals so that they will not be permanently disturbed by the beginning of this election period.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u15	Mr. President. In a pontta, he stepped. A senator and the chairman of a legal committee who apologized for his priming, of course, for this apology. But she talked about customs, and then I went to the Generals website, and once in the last few years, it was a bridge, and it was a Covid situation, it was all closed, and we were back in a new environment. It was approved by a financial and business committee at the last committee for the chairman of the committee to allow a statement request to be sent out without the committee being called together on the basis of the condition. Now is the time. It's not a legal committee that's ever coming together. We need to get together in a new election season after the election. We have to remember that. All of us who worked here during the Covid period last year and last two years remember that there were no such rules as sending out a statement without the committee coming together. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm talking about. Chairman of the budget board to know. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u16	The president again reminds us that members of Congress will have to respect the session in this discussion about the President's conference board.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u17	President. An interesting matter is the apology, and when it comes to making a sincere apology, it is no problem to accept such requests. However, at the same time, it is referred to as a time of time that was told me that it was a time of long ago, as well. The chairman of the budget board with his professional experience on a budget board should know that it is not true. There won't be an apology when something like that happens. This has never been done in the time I've been on a budget. I don't know how to take such an apology when it's just said, "I was told. They're pointing someone else's responsibility: I'm irresponsible about this, just believing in me that it was this way, and I apologized for it. However, there is responsibility elsewhere in this apology. This is not how an apology works. So, please: Where did this come from? Because it's not true.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u18	A respectable president. I'm gonna let me tell you what. A senator and the chairman of a legal committee is more likely to try to paint a certain picture because of this mistake, and I think this is a mistake. I'm gonna look at it that way. But this is still a little vivid, as I had previously thought, for the approach of the government and the administrative committees to the council. This image that is drawing up is getting uncomfortable. I have no doubt that there is a special discussion here at the council on how the council can really work effectively with the attitude that comes from the constitution in one case after another. It is this unpleasant feeling of the senator who says that the members of the board come close to all of this, the whole thing, a little bit on this note: I mean this, I'm allowed, it's not really your business. I feel sad about it, so I strongly direct them to the new president I trusted to take these matters to heart immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u19	Mr. President. It cannot be said that the implementation of a budget bill for the council will come in an unexpected way, according to the Constitution of the first cases of each assembly. But in view of what has been presented, I would like to direct a question to the question. The chairman of the budget board, because I noticed that she had requested to come back here for a discussion about a meeting board. It was claimed that it had always been done this way. I checked how this was done last year. Then it was the case in 1st. of September 13th. The case was sent to review the 16th, evidently after a discussion had taken place and the case had been discussed. I would like to direct it to the President to go through this and put before the prime committee what this has been like in the past few years. And the other thing that I would like to direct to the chairman of a legal committee: What time frame was given to tell us since this has been sent out formally?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u20	A respectable president. I mean, I haven't been at a council for a long time, as they know, but I do know very much that there are very rigid laws and laws on how things should be done. I noticed why. The chairman of the budget committee referred to tradition. I would have thought, in view of the last weeks and months, that having a tradition in mind, rather than making shapes, laws, and rules, would not be the best way into what we are trying to accomplish at the council. We saw this happen in the Northwest District, referred to tradition rather than form and important law code, and it brought us all into great trouble, and I would have thought that at the Council, men should be somewhat aware of it. On the other hand, I want to thank you. The chairman of the budget for coming up here and being sincere in making mistakes and hoping that those words are promises that things will be better in the future. [[The president calls.]] But we should be careful, shapes important, rules, and laws. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u21	President. I'd like to describe just a few minor events, like I'm seeing this happen. We at the governor's stand did not want to negotiate a talk period in the budget talk because we feel that it is important to take up the discussion of the budget. This is the first budget of a new government, and it is important that we have a good time to discuss it. It is not our fault that the government decides to hold elections in September instead of making it springtime that would have allowed enough time to contribute funds and to have good discussions about budgets. What is the response of the majority? The chairman of the budget board, who has served since 2013, has been on a budget committee for six years and knows well how the rules work and knows well how they've always been done, decides to send the bill for reviews without bringing the committee together as a small card to buy time for the government because they're afraid to burn in with the budget bill. [[The president calls.]] That's how this game works, that's why it's done and I just don't take this apology at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u22	Mr. President. I'd like to put this case only in the Covid context because there have been some explanations, which, in fact, have been deteriorating, of the tradition. This has once happened on this committee, it has to do with Covid. Other committees also granted permission to accept the Commission's approval, to advance this with Covid. Now, for a year and a half, the Icelandic nation has enjoyed severe freedoms; freedom to act, freedom to work, freedom to travel, etc. Some sets by law, other by regulations. I don't like the idea of a change in this, whether there is a further impairment in the light of some situation or of not letting the recovery of the impairments be taken in the same way that the government has been working, this first two meetings. I don't feel comfortable with not being able to trust that public interests are being brought up in a way that they have the law on Congress. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u23	Again, the president reminds us that the discussion session for President's conference board is one minute, but no longer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u24	This has become a custom.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u26	A respectable president. Let us be absolutely clear about why the matter of government is so urgent. There's only a few weeks before the budget has been approved. And it is not the less part of a council to blame that within a month, the budget must only be so good at being smart. It wasn't our will for elections to fall in the fall, and it wasn't our desire that the preparatory committees of the stock market take way too long to do nothing, to hold the status quot. And now, to speed up, the state's entire budget is to be placed in the hands of a client for one week that I understand to speed things up. However, in just a short time, we feel that the State needs to be discussed with us. Of course. Let's just make it clear: This is why the Council's rules were violated. That is because the government decided to vote in the fall, and that is because the government needed shelter for nine weeks to renew its vows. It's not written on us, and it's going to be remembered.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u27	A respectable president. It doesn't start well, and it didn't start out right away when the majority of this council adopted a vote that was undisputed to the point of being dependent on enormous problems, including. was explained by references that it was traditional or normal not to follow rules. Although I disagree with the decision to confirm that vote - but it was here - you would have at least Hope that the council would learn a lesson from that process. Then I do not mean that this type of work should be done. I agree with what's been presented here. It's a characteristic, it's a certain theme. I hope this work isn't what's going to happen in this terms period, and I challenge the government parties to take responsibility for their own policy, on their own decisions, for example. ... about choosinginfalls,and their own mistakes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u28	President. I've got a seat. A legal committee who is looking forward to the full - time ministry. Chairman of that committee and all of it. Councilmen who sit with me on that committee. We all know what time it is, and it's December 2nd, and budgets are coming up every year, and it's true that they have to agree before New Year's Eve. Hv. A senator and the head of the budget came up here and apologized for the fact that the bill had undergone a review procedure, and I accept an apology. Nevertheless, I would like to come on to it, for this is a discussion of the respect of the Alleglers, that I was in trouble. The Economic and Business Committee during the last term where we agreed on exactly what is stated in the rules to allow the Chairman of the Committee to issue a statement. I have experience at a different level than the council, and I have to admit, when we're considering such formality and respect and other things, that I thought it was a little unusual that I always had to call a meeting to send out to a party that's already under surveillance and doing a story about it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So I would like to encourage us to discuss it on the committees if we would like to have the project in a way that requires that we always call up a meeting to send out a statement. [[The president calls.]] If that is the will of the committee, it will, of course, be the end of the rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u29	A respectable president. The question was, How long was the deadline? It's December 9th. But as I said before and would like to repeat, it was said that no apology was accepted because it was being blamed for the blame: it is not being blamed. I take this responsibility. I was bored, certainly, but I take responsibility for having listened to it. It's just like that. This is totally my mistake. I can't say that we've always known, whether it's on a budget or anywhere else, that the layman has not had requests for such things before. This is something I've been told. But I take responsibility for this and I really hope, though it is, just as it has been said here, a bad custom, has been a custom -- and I take it completely to myself that this is not a good start in the committees. But as I'm saying, I can't help but apologize, and I hope that next time we have a good partnership. I believe it. I trust it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u30	A respectable president. It's kind of a big deal for us, isn't it? I just have to say, men have been defending themselves by tradition, but we should have learned from the Northwestern district that we have to comply with the rules and laws. We must also realize that when the chairman of the Committee sends out like this, no one knows about it except him or maybe just the government, but not the government. It must be minimal enough for anyone on the committee to know what is going on. If we're going to do the law and the rules, I'd make my suggestion now that this request will be retracted. Learn from experience. Let's draw this back. Let's finish the discussion. Let's call the committee and send out a statement, like we're supposed to. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u31	A respectable president. I just wanted to come up here specifically to thank the chairman of the budget board for your apology. I think there's good reason to accept it, and to accept it, and there's no one to be more concerned with it as uncomfortable as it was to see this happen. But I have to admit that together with this apology, the word of the Independence Party for this discussion was also very unpleasant when it sets out the idea that this situation could not be replaced. Then I wondered, " Why don't they just take the step all the way and quit the company's committees? '
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u32	A respectable president. I may agree with the last speaker, and I must explain why. paritaprevir The spirit of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir why these rules are the way they are. When the above mentioned are together, they decide how long the notice period should be and who will be invited to send in the reviews. This is something the committee decides together. That's why the committee has to come together to do this, because it's not just a major part of it to decide who has something to say about the government's financial laws. It's not just part of the saying how long these same people have, even if they're comfortable now because they're so short for Christmas, and we all want to get on Christmas break, don't we? It is not an option, however, to compromise the rules of the council in order to get home for the Christmas dinner.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u33	Mr. President. I think it is safe for me to state that few members of the council came up here and sincerely apologized for mistakes as strongly as they were. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, chairman of the budget board. It is important for each individual to have a personal interest in the matter of being interested in his sincerity. I was in the last term of the head of the Economic and Business Committee. It was that I think it's safe for me to state, a good partnership in the process, but we shared a subject. We agreed on such a warrant for a president, but it was, of course, always a premonition that the committee would confirm it at the first meeting, as soon as it was determined who was the chairman of the case, always having a chance to influence who was on the tabloid. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And all members of the Economic and Business Committee were at any time allowed and had a chance to add that list, even after a meeting was concluded. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u34	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir for teaching me here to be a senator. Obviously, we in the Independence Party need it from the Pirates. It's totally misappreciating my words and taking advantage of it in a political riot here. What I said was that I'd accept an apology. The chairman of the budget board is valid. All I was talking about is that sometimes, just sometimes, can be suggested for a change of shape. I was not signing that mistake. However, the question is, Is it really more important to ask whether ASI and SA should not be given the financial bill? Of course, we should always be members of the Parliament and the members of the committee to recommend whom we would like to receive reviews from. And let's also see that it's just on the web that everybody can write reviews with the budget bill, and I hope most people do. [[The president calls.]] It's not in the law. Senator. [[Foreground on: Yes.]] [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] But, hey. The chairman of the budget committee has apologized for this. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u35	Wait a minute. Councilmen not to speak with two people here, and members also asked members of the council to respect speech classes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u36	Mr. President. In the light of words, why? paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son, I'd like to say there's no doubt there's anyone here who accepts this apology. Chairman of the budget board. On the other hand, there is talk over how we should conduct the council. This discussion is good because there seems to be a change of opinion about it. There's been a senator here. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, and she specifically said it was an unacceptable thing, I think she used that word, that it needs to be followed by these rituals. Clearly, there are differences in views as to whether this should be true or whether we should expand our releases and give even more power over how things should be handled. That's why I'm going to throw at the top. The president is to step in and tell us how he intends to use himself in this case from now on.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u37	A respectable president. I agree with what others have said here that it is certainly respectable for people to come up here and apologize, and for my part, it was nice to hear that this was a mistake. Worse still, this mistake shows a spirit and shows an attitude that we have seen elsewhere, even though we have reached that point at this assembly. Perhaps this shows what's wrong with this attitude when senators need to appear in a pita and explain what the rules are. If we understand the purpose of the rules, we should not have to be reminded of them. They're albino. It's logical that the committee will do this together, together. If it needs to be explained to the greater part why the committee needs to agree on things like this, then I'll agree with what just happened, that perhaps we need to reconsider why we have a committee job over our heads. It may also need to be reviewed for the greater part.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u38	A respectable president. I'm going to make a decision that I'm really happy about it. The chairman of the legal committee has addressed this case today, but I wonder why. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir on the same subject earlier. If there is ever a need to abide by the forms and rules, all the solid rules on this matter, then it must be when funding are given very late this year out of fall elections. The committee must have to come together. The committee must have a discussion about who to send a request and how long to give a comment. If not in the budget, when? So I strongly suggest that we listen to it rather as a matter of course. The chairman of a legal committee has said the matter in this discourse, but what was noted was the case. paritaprevir That's one of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir's comics. I don't like to suggest this when we're entering this delicate discussion on budgets, both in committees and in the conference hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u39	Mr. President. I'd like to thank you too. A senator and a chairman of the budget for your apology, declaring that I am an accomplice with her and would also like to apologize for my involvement in this case. But I just want to say here in this sermon that, of course, this is a legitimate criticism. Of course, it is not that the committee is involved. It is not up to the Committee, and it is the committee's call to make a statement and a notice. That's what the committee will do. In this situation, it was simply discussed at a meeting with a member of the commission to call attention to the fact that the budget was presented. It's a lot of work to give a good report on the budget. The criticism of the government around here is justified, I hear it, and we respect the viewpoints that have been presented. Of course, when it comes to the committee, the Commission will find out which references are sent or requested and which deadlines will be given.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u40	Mr. President. This discussion about the President's conference board has been of great interest and learning. We all know what position we are in. It was decided to vote in the fall. There was a mess in the northwestern district. The committee took a long time to work, and we ended up in the situation here that we in the smaller part called "No way," but we're all in, 63, and we're all in it. We have to set up budgets for New Year's, and that's why it's so important that we follow all the rules, formalities, if we're gonna get out of this case by New Year's Eve. Of course, all institutions - if we don't make it, it's all gonna be a mess. Therefore, the more part must stop and stop counting heads and rejoice at how many of them are in the smaller parts of the section, for this will only work in the agreement between all members of the Parliament in the greater part and the smaller parts. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [[The president calls.]] That's why it's important that the more part stop thinking, "I have this, I can do this. " [[The president calls.]] It's not like that. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u41	Mr. President. It is respectable for the chairman of a legal committee to admit to himself a mistake and apologize for them, and we thank them for that. But there are concerns as to how representatives of the greater part of this discussion have expressed themselves. To feel that we speak in a democratic field within the council committees how cases are sent to advise and to which party, I do not agree with them at all. It is the cornerstone of the committee's work that we work together in the hall, that all nine members of the committee are at the table in all the basics of the Committee. That is why there is even more concern when we hear about it today. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson was with the chairman of the Fundament Committee in deciding to send the budget for comment. So the Chairman and the vice president of the Committee could be assembled, - probably not the second or so of the vice form of the Committee. paritaprevir Sæland Goland belongs to a position of government - they could be brought together to share this decision of government. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And if this is the spirit of the work done on the committees of the council, we need to be very careful. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u42	The president has heard the comments that have been made on the part of him. Councilmen for a plea sent out by the chairman of the budget board. The court's opinion that it is important to refer to the regulations of committees and tribunals in their jobs and that this case should be a lesson for members of the Committee and members of all committees to conduct practices in accordance with the regulations and regulations of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u43	I've received one commission of the 3rd. Southk., Ásthildur Þórsdóttir. Since there are no more claims than the votes, I shall declare the Queen's Mother, Ásthildur Þórsdóttir, to be the third vice president of the General Assembly. I congratulate her on her election and for her entire career.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u44	I have received a list of names: Ágúst Garðarsson, Bergþór Ólason, Halldóra Mogensen, Sverrisdóttir Sverrisdurdrisdótttir, Jakob Frímann Magnússon, Lilja Sigurgeirsdóttir Sigrgeirsdótir, Logi Trausti Friðbertsson, Orri Páll Jóhannsson, Sigmar Guðmundsson, and Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir. Since there are no more claims than there are votes, I shall declare before the members of the panel members of the Committee for the Future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u45	At a meeting yesterday, the sixth leading man and the deputy in the Iceland Department of the Westnoric Council were found to be at the head of a conference. The President has come up with a proposal to support his Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir as a top man and Guðbrandur Einarsson as a backup. Consider this proposal approved if no one objects.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u46	A respectable president. I present a bill for budget for the year 2022, paragraph 1, 152 of the legislature. According to the 42nd. The Constitution is to provide budgets for the General Assembly when it meets and in Article 25. According to Congress, the bill should be submitted to the first meeting of the Fall Summit. The financial bill is based on a financial programme for the year 2,20230226 submitted and approved in the last spring Summit. Along with this budget bill, a financial policy is put forth 2022 mouse, and the bill is in line with the aim of the policy. Defense, protection, and resistance became a key subject in our immediate policy and last year's pandemic crown virus. We decided to use the government budget to protect homes and businesses and to support the economy through one of the deepest economic contractions in history. Do more than less. The results of this policy and the solidarity of the entire country are seen in rapid economic improvements during the past month. Unemployment has increased rapidly and is now similar to that of the epidemic. There are well over 20,000 more jobs at the beginning of the year. In fact, there has been a great increase in financial strength, a growing figure in the years to come. Next year there is an estimate of 5.3% of the interest rate and the rate of domestic production above the rate of the epidemic. Overall, the economy is expected to increase by 20% in the year 20213/426. The next year is expected to increase the extent of export, most of which are attributable to improvements in tourism. The Habitat estimates that the service export is growing by more than 40% in 2022 and that the total growth in export is about 19%. We also see an increase in the export of aluminium and marine products. The total wealth of the state's budget is estimated to be 955 billion. or about 26.8% of gross domestic product. The total budget in 2022 is estimated to be 1,124 billion. or about 31.5% of GDP. The income goes up by 81 billion dollars. and the cost of 27 billion dollars. which makes about 54 billion dollars. benefit when compared with the spring financial programme. A respectable president. In recent years, relapses have led to a huge increase in the debt of state funds. According to the laws on public finances, they have increased from 22% of GDP in 2019 to about 34% of GDP by the end of 2022. However, there is a much better situation than was foretold in the budget. In the spring where the economic growth and income of the state's funds have proved to be higher than it was then anticipated, as well as where the government's sale of a property share in Iceland Bank yields itself into an improved debt ratio. In spite of a better situation, it is clear that there will be ongoing tasks in the coming years to improve the quality of the Kingdom treasure. Sustainable financial matters require an adequate debt and that the state's funds are in place to face the future challenges and unforeseen occurrences. At the same time as economic and labour market prospects have improved, inflation has been more persistent than expected at the beginning of the year. As a result of a much stronger demand combined with low growth levels, a high exchange of state funds reflects a sharp response to the economic consequences of the epidemic and a rapid increase in company pay costs. International inflation has also increased, including due to increase in energy and raw prices, increased demand and the impact of volunteer growth in many parts of the world. It is clear to all that economic stability is the key to making large improvements in homes over the past few years permanent. Thus, the constantity is the common objective of all of us. The results of collective agreements are among things that will address economic developments in the coming years, especially unemployment and inflation. It is therefore crucial that the workforce management is such that the results of collective agreements reflect the economic conditions of the economy, that inflation can be bonded, and long - term noncooperative. Since 2013 taxes on individuals have been the issue of government priorities. This bill does not expect much tax change, but it has been quite extensive and effective in recent years. However, next year the last stage of the global change in income tax was published in 2019, which was started to reduce income taxation, and we can say that the overall impact of this product is about 23 billion a year, to lower taxes for income taxpayers. The decrease in taxation was particularly aimed at earning people, but individuals with a monthly wage in the range of 3,350,400 you. K. you have about 120 of these. K. More in the hands each year after these changes. In the final phase of the change, tax abolition and step limits develop to the rhythm of the index price plus assessment of long-term production, resulting in a rate of 1% production per year. This is the result of a review of these guidelines that we have been following for a long time and have been criticized for the faster pay per year than the level of consumption of prices that occur in the technical language. But with this, there are always more and more people on the income tax sheet, growing higher and higher on the tax burden, and now I want to maintain it in the discussion that we must consider the development of the tax burden and the changes in the provision of the households from one hour to the next, of course, the most important matter is, in the end, that the pay raise will eventually be due to more provisions. The last changes we made are not going to need to be repeated here before the General Assembly, but we took up a new lower income tax level but proclaimed changes in the criteria for the money limits on the steps and, on the other hand, how the personal discount would change and thus, from one year to the next year, the tax limit. It was considered, as we presented the tax system changes, that the tax limit would be seen developing through a product growth, and here we are putting up with that methodology to further develop the real tax system, thus ensuring the survival of more efficient individuals. It is estimated that income taxes will be 2.3 billion. below every year starting in 2022 because of this new reference. This is, in that sense, 2.3 billion. a decrease in tax. There have been changes in income taxes and to improve the position of various important activities, to improve government climate targets, and to support strong resistance. Thus, there are hurryups to increase investment, special appeals to support green transformation, and tax incentives for individuals and businesses to support public welfare - these are some of the things we have recently been doing. There's been a lot more than that, a respectable president. We continue to invest vigorously. Despite the predictions of several contractions in total investment in 2022, the figure is to be drawn up from the current year - this reduction results in a very large growth in industry and government investments this year. Thus, in 2022 a 1.4% decrease in public investment is observed, following nearly 20% of growth in 2021. The government's investment is both 2021 and 2022, a higher proportion of land production, but it has been since for financial failure and close to or over long - term average. If an investment is looked into national interest, a budget bill for the year 2022 estimated that investments will reach a total of over 88 billion dollars. The largest individual investment project is the construction of a new land hospital, which is expected to save 14 billion dollars. next year. Then an estimated 10.4 billion will be expected. in reimbursement of research and development costs, 31.5 billion dollars. In transportation, about 5 billion dollars. in the construction of nursing homes and 1.5 billion in Digital Iceland, for example. This contributes not only to building more solid inside and better public service but also to building new economic foundations, especially in innovation and intellectual industry. There is then a major government project preparation in connection with better transport projects, but the scope of this project may be about 0.2% of gross domestic production every year in the years beyond what is expected in the bill. A respectable president. The main theme of the government is to continue working on the promotion of public service, maintenance of infrastructure, improved interest in pensioners, and even more potent health systems. Health contributions remain in the foregrounds when it comes to the priorities of funds, but in recent years there has been a marked increase in expenses for the seminary. In budgets for the current year approved at spring Summit, not this year's last budget, health costs were increased by 1.4 billion, in order to strengthen the health system to cope with the sequelae of the pandemic and in order to strengthen the management of aging institutions. Funding bill 2022 suggests that there is an increase in health costs by 16.3 billion, the largest increase in budgets in the bill, which has increased by more than 31% in actuality since 2017. Again, the increase in medical spending between 2010 and 2022 years from more than 171 billion dollars. For more than 300 billion dollars. It's estimated $ 2.6 billion. funding to enhance the ability to react to the hospital. There will be a series of six high - care reports, 30 new rehabilitation reports, and a special transportation unit in the house in Fos Sox. In addition, 1,400 million dollars will be provided. a donation to purchase a vaccine against Covid-19. Health insurance contributions increase by 4.6 billion dollars. to meet increased demand, including as a result of medicine and dental work. The payment of medical security will continue to be reduced, as well as the permanent support of the base of the annual budgets. Similarly, our priority is to continue to improve the quality of our pensioners. We're going to raise the improvement in microenergy and rehabilitation services by 1% beyond the criteria for the cost of GDP in the year 2022. Thus the total improvement is 5.6% from budgets of 2021, but this additional increase is estimated at some 800 million. K. This results in increased expenditures by increasing the number of pensioners, a total of 4.6 billion dollars, and additional donations due to the prolongation of observation to 12 months, a total of about 1.1 billion. It's normal to continue the social security reform system. We want a pensioner to see that the system is supporting people. If people want to seize the opportunity to expand their progress, beyond what the traditional working years have used to do, the system should not work against it. That's why, as we've talked about in elections and debates this year, we'd like to raise the job holidays. Those who are now serving together in the government had as one of their first jobs during the last term to raise the income market from 25 levels. K. of 100 you. K. and now it's set up to 200 points. K. the next year and the estimated at least 500 million dollars. If we shift from older ones to younger ones, we are expected to increase the budget by 1.8 billion. based on integrating services in behalf of children. Most important of all, it is worthy of attention to climate. The government has set ambitious goals in the category, and in recent years costs have increased dramatically. This trend is expected to continue in line with the government's aim for Iceland to take the lead in fighting climate change. Remunerations rise by 1 billion. A total of over 13 billion cans. next year. This is in accordance with government policies to increase contributions to climate by 1 billion dollars. every year between 2022 and 2031 or a total of about 10 billion. Every year at the end of the season. It is also worth 600 million. K. the next year to speed up transport energy exchanges. I've only touched on a big one here. Some matters worth bringing up in the budget will be in special income bills. I may specifically mention what is involved in the child-replacement system. We're here on the second bill for the council, and on the program, income expenditures due to next year's budget, and I'm going to keep a discussion about the changes in the child reform system until I carry that bill, which is a general increase, changes in the limit of declines, and transfers between upper and lower limits to make sure that the resources we've been looking for are better off. It also rhymes with the fact that we in the community have been highlighting the rise in the lower end of the pay end, and it is important that the limit of the decline comes with it so that all the pay raise or a large proportion of it does not disappear in children's deficiency. More cases on the income side are traced to the primes I've referred to here, I've done a big tap. I'd like to here, at the end of my speech, to highlight a few general points. This bill continues to hold on to the emphasis we have used in recent years, following the emphasis that the same categories have had during the past few years to improve our terms. Strengthening the infrastructure has been a success. We are in a great hurry to do so, thus building a strong community of well - being and equal opportunities, building a society ready to meet the challenges of the future. Changes in the Council are part of these emphasises, to ensure or seek to ensure that the Council of Management develops in a way that the community calls out for. Similarly, because of recent financial growth, we need to consider that the winds are turning, that the situation is changing, and that this calls for only changing priorities, not just government matters, but public financial matters. Cost growth must be something moderateer than it has been in the past few years. I wasn't very concerned about heavy slants and big growths in various fields, especially with the so - called automotive equations working on the income side that the income fell very fast, but on the charge side, so that expenses went up quickly, such as in unemployment improvements and other supportive systems. It wasn't right to take action because of it and to increase taxes or major cuts, but it had to be allowed to happen, and then the government added, to specific measures beyond what our major systems had expected, both on the income and on the remuneration side. The investment, for example, is an example of this, a special attention to the operator, an extension of the period of employment, an increase in child support in unemployment insurance is an example, etc. Still, we need to continue to carry out the work of ensuring that government funds are properly handled, continue to be reformed, provide better, more efficient government management that meets the need for services, and ensures that we do things in a more practical way, and render secure service that meets the needs and needs of people. It is assumed that in the next year, the support of the state's funds to the economy is reduced by about 3% of GDP, which occurs at the same time as the economic activities of private citizens grow rapidly and are now currently taking some production durations in the economy. With a decrease in the underlying angle, public funds support the money policy, where maintenance has increased in recent months. In view of the rapid improvement in labour market status, the reduction in the maintenance of public funds would result in a higher inflation and higher growths in place of longer-term growth and greater financial gains. This can be seen as being a complete involvement in recent money issues. This is an important part of the discussion of the role of budgeting under the circumstances that are currently under consideration. How do we use the financial resources and finance so that our circumstances today are more balanced? I think that's one of the major factors, and I'm not going to belittle it can be difficult to make sure that when you look into the future with certain uncertainty conditions, deep into the next year - enough uncertainty has been the last few months. Forecasts from this spring did not follow. We are in quite a different place today, but we held only a few months ago. Still, I am among those who are relatively optimistic over the coming years, and I believe that the economic forecasts, if anything, are quite modest. If that is the case, it is good news for homes and employment. It presents good news for the state funds as well, and it would stir up well with the emphasis we have here on, on the other hand, in the budget and in the financial policy of independent Congress, but, as noted in a financial conference, we are putting forth the possibility that if things were going on a far better way than predicted in public interest, we would use it to further strengthen the situation further, i.e. We wouldn't let it all leak out on the charge side. This would not be in harmony with our overall vision and our overall goals. I'd like to let it be noted that in preparing this budget bill, the entire Ministry for the first time paid an equal assessment with its financial proposals. The effect on equality is thus part of the decision - making process. Much of the measures in the bill on equality were evaluated, and most of them are believed to contribute to the equality of the sexes. Part of them is considered to be unchanged, however, and a small proportion is considered likely to increase the gender gap. Finally, in the budget bill, the changed category of citizens is expected to be in line with the official review of Iceland's Habitat. This includes the change in terms of the government budget in which Part A is divided into three groups: A-1, A-2, and A-3, where the state fund, which is the A-1 part, will correspond to the previous Part A. This bill, as well as the bill for changing government financial law, is expected to change the financial laws on public finances to include only the A-1 part of the budget. A respectable president. It's December, and this is the 1st. ... abundant. It will be a very challenging task for a budget board to do their job, to look to all the items that the financial treatment calls on, and now I don't talk about when we add a link to the bills. I cannot help but offer all the help and all my services to support the committee in the work that she has been waiting for. I wish that if anything is contacted immediately and I know that the secretary of the Committee and other committees are familiar with the fact that the Ministry is doing their utmost to respond to any attempts. According to them, we've had a lot of experience in having had to make budgets with a small tube and a considerable amount of time crisis, and I'm quite convinced that, despite all of this, all of this will work out and work for us. I must mention in terms of how much support we have in the situations I am referring to by the government budget, that we have gone through drawing up a frame to the next year. It's just a few years since we set aside time here at the council and made it legal for us to set up a plan for the next year, and without it, we would be in a completely different position. As I've traced here, we are in the foundation of following up with the neighbors who were being discussed here earlier in the year and in that respect have taken up to a certain extent part of the discussion earlier this year, another council, and, in part, other members of Congress, but all documented and in support of the work that will now be undertaken. According to this statement, the bill will be followed by this discussion referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. The budget board.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u47	Mr. President. V.E.G. The secretary of the budget suggests that inflation pressure is holding back the benefits of this government. Well, then it's got the highest. A minister directs his spears to the remuneration and their responsibility in this inflation environment. But I ask you, what is the contribution of the government and Minister to a bargain, into the inflation? Most of today's inflation is due to the loss of apartment prices. There is nothing new in these housing funds. It describes the highest light. The secretary of the budget is now increasing child reforms. Yet, it is clear from the reading of the bill that there is no change in the amount, the amount of money that can make a big difference in human affairs. Instead of taking sides, molding the market, taking responsibility for the position of housing measures and real additions to child reform, thus reducing long and short - term inflation pressure, allowing us to stop driving the community in a constant response, it is decided to say only pass. I'm the highest responsibility. The secretary of finance for these teams of inflation?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u48	A respectable president. In itself, I am not surprised by the fact that we are about 1st. Money comes up with the old lemman: we're not spending enough money. We should be taking a far greater loan and stepping down our feet firmly on the gate of pay. That is really what it is. A senator was saying: "The subject. They're just looking at the expenses. That's all there is to it. What is it that keeps the government back in just pumping out money when we are already at a degree 160,170 billion angle? What keeps us back is the fact that the Devil is dealing with inflation. It is the message from the Secret Bank that is written in the money policy, in terms of money matters, to look to the way people are going to use their public finances. This is a large context of things so classic that the council does not want to recognize it. Rather, it proclaims that everything can be done for everyone without any impact on the value of the money in the country. It's just not like that. What we have been able to do is to secure the growing wealth of everyone, and it is prophesied that it will continue. We have to watch the projections for economic growth next year. We live in a powerful society where more or less all the machines are turning. Travellership is an exception, including ... becauseof the limitations of the border and the decrease in tourism in general. But the economy is on course. Thus, we must act in a slightly different way than when things are at liberty. It is not always the time to increase debt at the taxpayers'expense. I've had enough of my debt. Now we plan to unwind it by detracting year after year and building up again for the future. After that, the housing market is a very special matter. Of course, growing again must have had an effect. It was primarily for a much lower rate of growth, the lowest interest in Iceland history, which was attributed here as anywhere else. I think everyone must realize that that's gonna change. It is a pleasure, however, to see that there have never been more who have been married. In historical context, house - to - house growth is still very favorable, and we look forward to finding a new balance for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u49	A respectable president. Here is a fundamental problem of how we run the economy. The idea behind strengthening the position of the housing market is to reduce this constant pressure on the road side, which causes it to suffer. that one of the largest market budgets per year is pay and compensation, which is driven by the prices of real estate today. I'm not talking about spending money on something. I'm talking about system changes in housing markets, a market that this government has completely overlooked in recent years. I ask again, what are you going to do more on housing to reduce the tension that leaks into the entire economy, leaks to pay requirements, leaks into the expense of companies, and the expense of state funds? It's a good economy to be more supportive with the real estate market.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u50	A respectable president. First there was one of the basics of understanding, I think we had a basic understanding that we had to take 100 billion extra loans this year and again, as announced by the United States. It was simply wrong. It was said that we weren't doing close enough to keep our arms around the business and people. That was wrong. That was fundamental to understanding. It's showing the numbers today. At the housing market, only the exact same thing happened in Iceland and elsewhere, where interest was reduced dramatically. In Germany, Norway, Sweden, and other European countries, property prices have increased. You can see this from stock markets and elsewhere. Same thing happened here and elsewhere. The government that is continuing now has a direct bearing on it. A senator told me that his housing success was excellent, and I refer to the general apartment system in that regard. Likewise, to the share loans and how well they have been built and well received. There are plenty of pipes to ensure that, on the basis of these supporting systems, many new apartments will be built. I think that the swing we've seen at the housing market will recover with interest and the impact of the real estate market on the inflation will be stopped in the way we have recently experienced.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u51	President. An interesting discussion here, since the Treaty specifically states that there is no improvement in public service and taxation. I can't quite make it work, and I can't quite see in the financial bill which public services are being promoted and which taxes to turn down. I'd appreciate it if it was the highest. A minister would explain. It was also very clearly stated at the end of the last council, the last terms, that funding should, in fact, be so systematicly seen to be ready for elections so that the Ministry and the institutions could help any groups in the government to form and place their goal on the budget while the government talks. Then I'd like to ask, given that funding was ready for elections: Where is the government's signal on this budget bill based on how it was prepared for elections? And then it's my classic comment about a particular transparency, I just looked up and went to the seminary about taxes and collects, and it's said that there are 400 million lower, but when you sum up the major cost, it's 100 million extra to the expense, not a drop of 400 million. I don't fully understand the lack of transparency in this case when you don't get the simplest numbers to work out. It should be dropped by 400 million, but the figures show an increase of about 100 or so. It was the whole last term. There is a tremendous lack of simply reading the budget and understanding of the government's financial resources. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We have the resources. We're supposed to know what they're using public funds for.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u52	A respectable president. First only about this general question: How can we promote health care, how can we improve the way we walk in education, social services, and elsewhere, without directly seeing the budget I think billions of people are put in it? I simply believe that by better policy, by its reforms, by doing things, by implementing a new technology, by strengthening all the human resources that the state has over them, there can be a better way to do so. I'm just completely convinced of it. I don't think it always costs billions to do better. I think we can conduct a better public service with a better practice, a clearer job management and simply catch all these good ideas that live in the tanks for further improvement. We can do this to strengthen ourselves in the medical field, in the educational field, in transportation. We are preaching to strengthen the country's settlements. We want to use technology, for example. to teach many in the country, to use university seats. A form of greater public service, which does not have to cost more, may even cost much less. If we only invest at the expense of the foundation, it may result in less cost for everyone, being able to render such a service where it is needed. Indeed, the examples are endless. Digital Iceland, all the reform projects there. This is a better public service. What taxes could we reduce? We are not presenting new major tax system changes in this budget bill, but we say in the Treaty that taxes can be an efficient tool for improving the terms and that we attach it to the fact that collective agreements are available during the season, and we have done it with good results in considering the tax system in terms of collective agreements. [[The president calls.]] But there are many signs of a new government in this bill. I'll give you the example of a pension.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u53	President. The government's law on public finances to show a profit analysis in its policy and in the cost analysis shows just how financial contributions are not an increase in the budget, how it saves for the future. That's not exactly what they're doing. Consider another example from taxes and collections that refer to tax research and tax control as being promoted by the threat of risk management and the elimination of money. This costs 100 million, one of the few where the project is said to be at a high cost. What, though, is the challenge? What is the situation today, and what will be the situation with increasing the 100 million? What gain are we going to see from rooting out money? Is it so vast that 100 million more are involved, and what is the basis for it? These are the questions that we should be able to answer in financial planning and financial matters, but they are not for some reason.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u54	A respectable president. I have to say, I think I'm sorry. A senator has done well in the keeping of repeated talks here at the Council on the importance of transparency in these groups, and I believe he is right about the fact that as much transparency as we can guarantee is important. We have a very ambitious goal in the laws on public finances, but at some point I think we need to ask practitian questions about how far we can actually go to ensure full transparency of each aspect. In particular, money laundering and investing in better systems for analysis, e.g. tax fraud and that sort of thing, I'm totally convinced that it's one of the best examples we have in the whole management system that we would do right by investing until we can identify the data, feel the anomalies, study them instead of having it uninvolved to study the data and just have a printed set of tax contributions and try to find something worth spending time in. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u55	A respectable president. The remaining governments have used the index price of consumers as a crutch to hit financially in the worst place in our society, in the social security system. But now, out of some incredible chivalry, they come and say, "We're going to put 1% - 1% - beyond the index price for them. " That means for the population of 2,500 bucks. for tax. But the highest. Secretary of finance says this will cost 800 million. Is the taxes within them, that they have been withdrawn? Is there a chain reaction inside it, within the social security system, or the impairments that go into the social reform system that cut down specific rents? After all, it'll never be 800 million. Thank you for the advantage of a dollar. I'm asking the highest. Secretary of the budget: Has he calculated this? Can he calculate this, or is there no one to do it? That's what I think, unfortunately. But that fact is clearly stated in the 69th chapter of the Bible. Social security legislation to deal with pay development. When is this done? Never. Not over the last few decades. That is why 40% of the missing women have grown up in social security patients, and they should continue. But I'm asking the highest. Secretary of finance, in particular, has he calculated this 800 million. K. the cost of recovery from taxes and impairment?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u56	A respectable president. To me, it is not reasonable to say that governments over the past few years rely on the consumer science number as some sort of crutch in this subject because it is simply under law, in 69. g. that if the index price rises more than the general cumulative changes indicate, it should be used. This was inserted at the time to ensure that inflation would at least Never eat up the benefits of annual changes that would bring the budget bill. It was a kind of insurance policy for the benefits. Of course, it cannot be excluded that, at the end of the year, the overall rate of combined raises will be lower than the rate of index consumption. Part of the increase is because in the current year, inflation was found to be higher than in budgets expected. It is replaced in this 5.6% increase. Can we tell exactly how the cost goes? Well, it's such a double calculation, and he says: 800 million goes beyond what would otherwise have come from a government fund. But with that reasoning as a dog. A senator brought them here should just lower the benefits because it would be so good for everyone, because then the damage would get so much together that there would be more money for reformers. This, of course, is not likely to be true. Of course, there is a general increase in the recovery rate to improve the terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u57	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance answers. But will the compensation be reduced? No, changing the system or doing the right thing, putting it through the tax system, reducing the taxes, stopping the taxes from poverty. It comes directly into the pockets of these individuals, the straightest route. To try to claim that - these subjects had an increase of 3.6% at the last year, which gave us a 7% increase in pay number. They got half. Now they've lost all of this, that 3.6% doesn't work for inflation this year, they'll get this later. This is not even enough to protect these individuals. So I'm asking the highest. Financial Minister: Now there is a 5.6% rise, which is about 10,000 on the lowest level and up to 15,000 on taxes. Why was this not simply an offer of taxation?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u58	A respectable president. The answer lies only in the fact that there is some outside limit to what we can do to cover high compensations. This day, these are the highest taxpayers in the state's budget. We spend huge amounts of money to stand with those who do not have enough between our hands, whether in a pension age or because of their labor - market disability. If we look at those who have a permanent disability evaluation or are in temporary disability and look at the range between 25 and 67 years of age, then we have about 10% of all on disability benefits. If we raise the benefits very much, it will result in the fact that the ones who are in the full - time service in a job market will have to pay such taxes that there will be too little left to pay, and it will not be accepted. We have one of the most powerful social security networks in Iceland. We are in the government covenant to preach, not just the change of the year, but the system's ablation. [[The president calls.]] That's where I tend to agree. A senator that enables us to make the system more reasonable, and let us use the next year to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u59	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance for the speech. I found many interesting things to be happening, some things that I may not necessarily agree with, but there was something else that I thought was important to me. Minister moving forward. That was even. that he saw that the winds were turning and that we had to be careful on the cash side. I welcome those words. I think it's very important that we be aware of this, no matter what our opinion on expenses. We all have firm opinions about them, and I will review them in my speech. But we have to be careful on the outpost side of the next year and years. It is right to draw out that the restoration supported every step of the government in striking armor around homes and businesses and leaving the community grunkers at Covid time. No question about it. We further criticized the government for not taking sufficient steps. Then there was the fact that for Covid, expenses exceeded your income. The budget for Covid, the fall of 2019, was not sustainable, as we shall well remember. That's a worry. Now we can even see. What we have regularly been pointing out in this government that every year public work has increased by over 2,100 a year, a total of over 9,000 jobs. Do we have a success in improving the effectiveness of public, including the results? By the government? All right, there's nothing wrong with raising public employment, that's not the point, as long as the ministry improves. But we're still dealing with a flow problem from the hospital, from LSH. We are still dealing with a long wait list, both in children and in adults, including wait list for adult replacement surgery, etc. So my question to the highest. A minister is: How does he see to it that there is increased effectiveness in public business, and how does he view this vast increase in public activity when the field ministry has not improved as it should? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u60	A respectable president. I'd like to be happy to hear such a responsible tone about the outposts. The increase in expenses over the past few years cannot be overlooked. Some of this was simply inevitable. In the years following the collapse of financial companies, a cutoff was gone too far. The government's investments were virtually stopped. There was a walk very close to the Land Hospital. We've been working that position back up every year. So I say, in part, it was inevitable to reimburse the extra expenses, which are set up by some upper limit. How wise it is to ask: " How can we continue to improve our effectiveness without ever adding more crowns to our projects? I think we've had a truly unique opportunity with the technological revolution taking place, automation of processes, etc. For example, for example, you can only enter a health care facility and renew your prescription or schedule an appointment with the health care provider. Everything we're doing under the hat of Digital Iceland is evidence of the possibilities there, and we've just begun scraping the surface. I was before telling you what I was doing. A senator on how we cooperate with the evidence of the government. We can use the data so much better to make better decisions, thus saving money and choosing the right ways sooner. We've got a lot to do with all this. In terms of the increase in jobs, the labour market in Iceland has also been increasing, and it cannot be said that it is prominent in the state that it is adding to jobs that are far beyond the level of the State of the labour market in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] But that is, with efficiency, technology and self-activities that I think we can achieve a lot of production. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u61	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister for this answer, even though I say that I feel that the state is extremely slow in managing self - efficiency and with the huge expansion we need. But all right, it's on the move. I know, for example. that when it comes to speech pathologists in the state field, the service for children is 11 hours a week while it is 33 hours in a private market. That's a bit of a difference between what a private person can do and what the government is doing. So it is possible to do better. I'd also like to stress that we need to consider every cent we put on extra expenses, especially with regard to what the bank manager has been pointing out. He has said that if the government spending gets out of hand, if the expenses are higher than our government budget, if we are not able to live up to the long-term benefits of a state fund, it will result in growth. [[The president calls.]] And we know what that means for the homes of the country, for the companies of the country, and for the investments of us whom we desperately need. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u62	A respectable president. I'm just gonna say it with what. Senator. I agree that sometimes the state is too late, too slow. Maybe that's why you decided to get involved in politics and work in this field, not just to give the board everything, but the whole system, to the entire public institutions. I've fought for a reform project across the Ministry to do better, work faster, and I'm happy to find ambitions that are in the public system, for the heads of the management department, for those who are leading a project all over and just general staff, to get the opportunity to do better. People can see that things can be done more effectively. Often all you need to do is put into your heart a particular battle spirit and then create a condition. There may be fundamental conditions, such as the fact that all information systems are interconnected and that people can work in groups. [[The president calls.]] At the same time, we're trying to change institutions as workplaces to maintain a good employee and a working force, and we're just starting. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u63	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for the rest of the discussion. It is as if there are more things that come to mind than there is time to go over. But I would like to start by, in view of the news of these huge growths in Kingdom workers, asking if the highest. The minister and the government have a view of the additional projects and institutions specified in the government covenant. There was here especially one before. Yesterday's executive sitting in the Minister's chair, which I noticed, gave a number of new institutions scheduled for setting up during the election season. Is there any perspective on this scene? Something else I'd like to ask the highest. A minister about is the insurance fee I've talked about in this field. It can be unfair to ask in numbers on the bill, but these are so large and very talkative that I trust to the highest level. A minister has no answer. I notice that insurance costs are estimated to go from 93 billion to a reevaluation of the base of 2021 to a 14 -8% increase in between year and year. At the same time as we watch unemployment figures become relatively low and these large numbers of Kingdom workers in those days, I just wondered: " Could it be that we are watching the largest rate of revenues on the insurance bill alone? In addition, I would like to ask the highest. To what was presented in his background, a minister said that there will be a billion each year in climate matters for the next ten years, if I understood correctly, so that the end would be a permanent further of 10 billion a year after that period compared to what is now. What's your position? Minister to the sound of this increase?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u64	A respectable president. First only about whether we would have a complete overview of each of these additional projects or members of the government covenant. A senator noted that following the incident, even institutions need to be established. I can't say that I have such a summary, but it leads to the nature of the case that the government, who has just come together with this government covenant, will have as one of its first missions just to reassign the Treaty to a unique project and to distribute it to the Ministry, and that is the way we will follow up with the work that is outlined in the Government Treaty during the election period. The work will be won, and I'd just like to say as one of the authors of the Constitution and one of those who sign it that it is not on my side that we have to establish new institutions and finance them with everything that can follow in order to achieve the results and to make these projects work. Time and again, other temporary conflicts are beginning to run their course, creating new space. In terms of the insurance bill, I think that this is simply a comparison of a number from the current year, where we wrestled in the face of an enormous unemployment, and then the figures for the next year where the situation will be much better. In this comparison, there is some effect that the special temporary addition of the insurance fee is running its course at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u65	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, excellent answers. What I want to come in now in a second answer is the highest. A minister in his talk about 1.4% reduction in public investments from year to year. I remember the report of the Land Bank, I think of the industry's Association, if not the industry Association, that went through at the beginning of this year that the actual public investments were going on much slower than planned. Is it to the point that the collapse is being won now, or how does this overall picture develop in view of the fact that public investments have not been taking place at the suggested time? And perhaps at the end: Does a minister have any information on how work goes ahead with financing and religiousism toward transport cooperation? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u66	A respectable president. I had not responded greatly to the question about climate. It was conducted with such a crude estimate of how our updated aim of reducing emissions would require increased support, direct and indirect, on the part of the State, and we had a grossly estimated billions of dollars a year to follow up our plans, and there is good reason to follow up on that project, only to follow up on it, to do so year after year, and to see how the funds are being used and how success is being achieved. In terms of the public investment, it has to be said, as it is, that it has not been successful enough to make use of the resources guaranteed by the Council. This is true of the Land Hospital, a nursing home. We had about the past year too much money made from year to year in terms of used investments, and I believe it has continued with us this year. That's a hell of a lot of money. The funds haven't been established, have not stood by the council to secure the warrants, and we just have to ask ourselves, " What lesson can we learn from this? ' [[The president calls.]] For the PPP, it will have to wait late.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u67	A respectable president. What a joy it is to see that we are standing on a solid foundation! The wealth of government has had to borrow less than fear to cope with these disasters, the result is much better, and the less debt. The debt of state funds will be 40% of land production during this terms, if plan will be maximum. Secretary of finance and the government thinks. In contrast, in Germany the debt of both your local and state funds, in a country not known for government delirium, was 40% in 2019 before the crowning crisis. This context is important because there are no excuses to avoid pressing forward. There is no need to nurture the fear that we are still in a straitjacket. There are tremendous opportunities to press on. But this financial bill is no sign of it. In fact, there seems to be no change in government funds budgets for the next year since the publication of financial programs, despite the fact that the economic situation is considerably better than the predicted one. Next year, the debt of state funds was estimated to be 42% of domestic product, now 35%. In fact, when reading these budgets, it might be concluded that there was no change since the first quarter of this year, from the release of financial programs at the last government, a financial program that was repeatedly spoken of in the campaign as being unattained, would really be just a government-based program, a update of numbers, because they might not bring up a new plan in detail for a new term. Then a political treaty is presented with a popu and pug, a fireworks display of the government's attitude in climate and technology - back into the interior. This 21st century, so extensive, changes have been proclaimed that the entire administrations had to be jumped to control the scope. So I ask, when does this 21st century really take over? The following can be read from the government's new budget bill, a document that determines budgets for a quarter of the 21st century budget of the government, by permission of the president: However, at the time of the bill preparation, the primary objective has been made that the number of new or increased costs will not be further than those related to the conditions caused by the Korean virus epidemic. Also, there is not much movement on the income side of the budget in connection with the tax system changes, except for temporary measures for the pandemic that is reversible... Then the chairman of the budget board has sent out a letter to a speaker suggesting that little is really discussed, since there are no changes on the bill from the financial program to which the reporters will probably not even be called at the table. A respectable president. What, then, was this last weekend? It took eight weeks to decide not to change anything exactly? The budget of the new government is the first teststone to accept its promises, and there is no news of it. I'm sorry, Mr. President, because the changing conditions in the economy are changing, the fact that the economy is turning faster than fear, and the state's position is better than previously predicted, meaning that we can change gear. Yes, we need to grow out of this condition, but how we do so matters. Is the idea of relying on the same package again? As we know economics, we can clearly see how these numbers are presented today. It is very easy to develop high economic growth rates after the initial shock. It's a simple percentage bill. The big question and politics are about how we strengthen the foundation of society for a long time. This is where we need to take a stand. Now I'm not talking about the crisis, the emergency package, the ability to react, but the offense. But I have a feeling that this government is not capable of moving forward. V.E.G. The minister of finance is not confident that he will use the government funds to sustain the community over a period of time. His march is on to keep the state as much as possible. The scope of the State Fund action over the last two years reflects the necessary action, not policy or application. It's been and it's going to be a response case. Now, however, the nature of these governments is to be seen, as it is now time to start testing on a vision of the highest degree. Minister, a vision of the government. A respectable president. I'd like to state that I've been content with the priorities of the government in innovations, as they appeared in the budgets of this year and for the next year. It is given here, and there seems to be an understanding of the importance of investing in those foundations. Yet, according to these budgets, there is a further project until 2024 that immediately next year, contributions will again and then a third. So this was just a Covid plan, not a long-term goal? The board seems to be known. Mr. President. There's talk of a major increase in climates. There was a new covenant. However, nothing has changed since the government's plan since spring, with 13 billion dollars laid. ... intheclimatics. This is equivalent to the amount paid in direct concentration to agriculture, a concentration that works largely against what we are trying to do in climates, as much of which is linked to meat and milk production. The whales are wrong in this system. OECD reports in its recent agricultural report that more than 70% of the country's allowance is based on wrong motives. The government will now state that the climate will be all - out in all its means. It would be wish to consider how these two equally high contributions, to the total climate class as well as to direct support for agriculture, work together. A respectable president. This amount, 13 billion U, is equivalent to less than a half percentage of the country's land production level. That context is important because we know that the battle against climate is on a global scale. The European Union's Green Revolutionary Programme accounts for up to 2% of the EU's domestic product production in the litigation category and international level has been discussed in still larger amounts. V.E.G. Secretary of finance has argued that such comparisons are not defined as we are so far ahead of Europe in green energy. We certainly have green power but the highest. Secretary of finance should also know that despite the green energy, emissions of greenhouse gas in Iceland are the highest in Europe. This is not included in emissions due to continued wetlands. We were interested at the time when we went ahead in the geothermals. In the 1970's, oil ice was gaining. But we cannot live forever on ancient fame, on the grand scale of the people who preceded us. The 21st century government here introduced a last weekend covenant must do something for itself, advance itself. I can say well with the highest. Secretary of finance that the State is not the only member of that parish. It takes a whole village, the companies, the people of the country. However, the Kingdom needs to shape the box that the village operates on. It requires strengthening the administration so that we can meet these major challenges. The movement of Ministers and seminars does little if there is no real change in funding to support institutions that need to be hot enough to direct society in the right direction. In this context, it is surprising that little if there is anything in the budget on how to strengthen the State's office in order to carry out these important tasks. Year after year, we have seen an official investment on the behalf of a government fund less than financial resources allow, i.e. The funding is approved but cannot be carried out. The pipes are blocked somewhere, and that does not mean constantly pointing at others. It's a sign of a weakness in the system and it's a serious weakness. Just a time in which this sensitivity is sensitive to inflation, and I am truly aware of the inflation, at the same time as the need for constant infrastructure is needed, just so that the government manages to extend the forward-side, widening the pipe as money is given so that it is not too much money to follow too few jobs and products and create inflation. That's why we need to get these investments going. It is difficult to run if the Kingdom does not have the right tools and tools, the right squares to cause such an attack. But for this, a government that believes in the importance of powerful institutions, powerful administrations, not a government that has the primary objective of reducing the State's scope, despite the obvious fact that as prosperity grows, it makes greater demands for service and support. When it comes to public activity, however, the fact that we expect much more of our community today is rarely presented to us than we did half a century ago. We live longer, we learn more, we respect each individual's needs more. The modern economy, a modern society, has a powerful and active kingdom that supports a powerful personal achievement. This is a cooperation project. For example, in the 1960's, growth in the affairs of the State can be attributed to increased activities in the school and welfare systems. There are activities that we come together as a community because we saw valuables in it, not only because we want everyone to have access to education and health care but also because these systems have made it possible for large groups of people to go into the work market in a vigorous pursuit of extramarital services. Yes, it has made public work, but it has also greatly increased the work of the private sector. There's an enormous amount of value there. The bloc and the oppressive presence of the official are considered for economic growth, but it may as well turn to the head. What would be the national income in this country, the currency creation, if we hadn't put all these people into the labour market with more knowledge than ever before? It is an enormous opportunity to introduce and strengthen resources that prevent us from losing people's strength to allow more people to make use of our tools. There the State has a place. I call attention to this, Mr. President, therefore, in view of the current financial strategy, and clearly the basis of this government, it is going to be a part of the government's economy after this government has completed its work in 2026 will be like the year I was born, 1988. Incomes will be about 28% of domestic product, cost 29%. These are figures that haven't been seen in 30 years. Does this apply during a time of great attendance in modern - day society? This trend is in stark contrast with what we see in the prosperous communities around us. Of course, it is not a goal in itself to expand the affairs of the State, but we must see that the largest social projects of our time requires that we have the power of the government, a powerful foundation system to carry out much social projects. Certainly, part of this State's scope has moved to rural areas. Well, it's a different story, but it doesn't change the big picture. The subject of the official 2026 will then be similar to that of 20 years ago. This makes it clear that in part the objective of this government is responsible for today's big work. The share of that responsibility, as I said before, is thrown into the communities that, in contrast with government funds, will be financially less economic in the next four years than expected in spring. The debt is worse, the result is worse and the highest. There will no doubt be a financial minister who blames them directly on the countryside, that they do not know how to run their units as well as the highest. Minister runs the state. But it's the highest. The secretary of finance, as well as I know, is that a major reason for the heavy management positions of the rural community, which have been given from a government fund and across to them, without financial support being followed. Thus, responsibility and funding are extended to a little brother; thus, a kind of cutdown took place on the back door of welfare. In addition, local society's positions are shocked. And now we're looking for another category of languages to be extended to the countryside. In a discussion about the government contract, the real focus is on weight. Foresee how the housing responsibility will be placed on the front of the local community, unless Minister of wood intends to take over all the sectoral affairs of the community. This is reflected in these budgets, where, despite a tremendous rise in apartment prices in recent years and the apparent market market failures, there is no improvement in resources available in the apartment market. This has created a cycle of apartment prices, pay, and inflation that will just continue. V.E.G. Secretary of finance is concerned about inflation. I have, too, but I realize where that inflation comes from, and it belongs to the highest. Minister to do the same. The inflation prices are the largest driving force of inflation. If the highest. A minister would be serious when he said that he was concerned about the development of pay, and inflation would have serious housing options that would be serious changes in the child - welfare system in order to bring relief to the country's families, provisions that can greatly reduce the pay raise. But no, there's no change, just a move within the seminary. Taken from one person into another's pocket. These mortgage prices are not good for the general public, company and public self, as there are pay and prices, which, in large measure, are due to the increase in real estate, one of the biggest changes in the state's budget between years. And this economic management of rural society, which runs a man - made service, is the only most important service in my opinion, with half the pay expenses being paid. Thus, the lack of stability of this government in an apartment market has contributed to the disintegration of prices that must be breached. It's an irresponsible economy. A respectable president. I find it difficult to identify the parish interest in these budgets that could be heard in the presentation of a government contract, and I find it difficult to detect serious measures to meet the labour market. Now Covid is about to come to an end. We will continue to be in some kind of reaction, but we are increasingly trying to test the ability of the government classes to make a decision to move forward. Little step management now needs to clear up the pace and not just to defend itself. The question is, what's the highest? A minister saw what it takes to lead society into the 21st century. It doesn't happen by itself, so I testify, by permission of the President, in the former President of the United States, Harry S. Truman, in a more casual sense: individuals are molding history, not then. In times where no one leads, society sits firmly. Progress takes place when courageous, qualified leaders seize the opportunity to change in a better direction. The opportunity is now, but it is malused according to the highest plan. Secretary of finance.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u68	President. I would like to share the emphasis on the housing market. I hear the emphasis. The senator's pressures on the overall budget of the building, i.e. the graft and the inflation joint like that. I have not seen much coverage of the impact of the housing market on the entire budget. I was wondering, just because we're on the budget, anyway. During this brief period of time, a senator has stepped in to calculate the share of inflation that the housing pressure has brought on the budget or whether we may need to get this analysis on the budget while we do this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u69	Yeah, thanks for that. I'll just take my whole mind. I think it's very important that we understand the amount of money that comes with this cycle. In fact, it is possible to have a simple history of this process. It is to examine how much more the state spends because of the increase in pay, as a result of inflation and inflation, and as a result, they take proportionately to what real prices are becoming inflation today. That's a direct way to figure this out. But I think it's a good idea that we're going to go to a financial committee to get more calculations on this because it's a huge cost, even for the State. In this discussion it is often forgotten that it is a coin that also strikes taxpayers and then ends up with them again through inflation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u70	President. It is this very vicious circle of inflation and the insurance policy underneath it all. As discussed in the budget bill, Presidential permission: ▪ The incidence of inflammation of the blood pressure has, in particular, broken up at large increases in housing prices. And then a little later: The cost of house - to - house service has increased rapidly beyond the provisional income and the debt of households has increased. And then there's just the discussion on this point in the budget. There is very little discussion about this huge team, where - especially after the government's operation in the Covid response, pouring money into the demand, not making sure there's actually an offer on housing at the same time. I mean, we'll make sure we're doing mail service, at energy. It's a special energy program to make sure that we have energy here for the future. Why not a house?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u71	A respectable president. I'll agree with this. I think we need to keep that in mind how impressive this point is about the government budget and others in this country. I think it needs to be taken up on a greater scale by the influence of the state funds and the indirect inaction of real estate rates last year. We hear repeatedly that this responsibility is thrown over what is called the market - like markets, it's not what's being developed in here by law, by decision-making, by regulations at UNEP, by Sears Bank. The lawgiver's here. There is no way to assume responsibility. The markets don't come from heaven. If the system doesn't work out the way it's set up today, then the government should consider it. You can't just point somebody out there.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u72	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his well-traveled career, for a fine speech on the state funds and the financials. What she pointed at even. It is better than expected a year ago. But with regard to the budget bill, she rightly said that with the budget bill there is nothing to be heard, nothing, and a government fund is not capable of moving forward in these critical times. I myself read a breakdown from the budget bill. Nothing is done to drive a valuable creation. I don't see any incentive for increasing the value of the bill. Nothing is done in the case of disability, even though according to the Government Treaty, the survival of a donor is to be improved. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: see what he sees. A senator of some agreement between the Treaty and the budget bill? Now I've read the budget and looked at the budget. [[The president calls.]] I don't see any interaction there. [[The president calls.]] The Mosaic Law includes the Law covenant. The need to improve the quality of the micro-organism should be stipulated. There is no indication in the financial bill that the situation is to be improved, not anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u73	A respectable president. I agree with what. Senator, there's no line between us. This is obvious because the figures in our financial program, the financial program that I reiterate to introduce to the management team as an official document that had no bearing on campaign action, they would personally evaluate and put their face on these budgets. It hasn't been done. There is no parallel between what is said in this covenant of government and what is being done today. Of course, expenses are not goals in themselves, but their composition is important. It seems that this was simply an empty speech presented last weekend. That's at least little action.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u74	A respectable president. There is another point I would like to point out, that the Treaty often speaks of green energy, green economy, and so on. I'd like to point out that today's 87% of Iceland's electricity is not green energy. It is produced from coal and nuclear power because of sales of responsibilities. So all talk about green energy, green economy, green and that, it doesn't make sense. 90% of the electricity in Iceland is produced by coal and nuclear energy, so let's stop talking about green here and there, once we've sold the pure energy from Europe. In terms of motivation, and now it's important to take the lead in these days when we may be coming out of the uncertainty situation, I don't see any motivation there or anything that's in order to drive up the treasure structure. I'd like to ask you what. A senator will see if she can see any incentive to produce a valuable creation in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u75	A respectable president. I can say with what. A senator says it's hard to mark something, what to call it, a professional policy in these budgets. In it, they would, in fact, be. They feel this kind of impulse. But I think in times like this, we're talking about the 21st century, how we can shape the future, for example. It was interesting to see how the government would want to exert the power it has to carry out certain tasks. Then I'm not talking about the state running everything, but that we would see that the State took more steps to make a round of big projects that would be not just big, but green energy in this context or green, to get private workers in it, because we can't expect the State to do everything. But it is not even to see such a project on this level, there are no big - interest changes being made, and I miss it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u76	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Kristrún Frostadóttir's daughter for my good report, which I deeply agreed with. But I cut it down, and I was distracted by the fact that it contrasted with one another and spoke of a contradiction in the government's strengthening of food production, which would contradict the climate. I know that agricultural growth is a great thorn in the eyes of Europeanists, and I also realize that food production affects the environment. But it's just that we have to eat. I don't quite see that we're all supposed to be roadside or something like that. Although there are environmental measures to be done, we need to ensure both food production and food security in our country, and we have already seen how much trouble one small virus can cause. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So I don't think it's legitimate or acceptable to ask the two things together.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u77	I want to pray. Councilmen to respect speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u78	A respectable president. Thank you for the inquiry from what? Senator. I believe that, and we in the United States have felt that there is a need to strengthen agriculture and spread abroad in Iceland. It is the nature of the support we make when we make comments. The European Union is in good shape. A senator refers to this one, for example. Today's direct support strengthens the economy of funding, so if farmers want to go into other types of productions that are climate change, they won't lose their strength. It's not like today. 70% is linked to production, forcing them into the old - fashioned way of life and reducing innovation in this article. We'd like to see a verdant settlement here. It matters. However, we also want new farming teams to be a big fan of new places, to take on other products that may consider climate change, though there may always be some mixture. So it's the nature of grantings that matters and I miss that this largest team the government directs is not better controlled on climate issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u79	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's answers are clear. I think we can totally agree that we can and may need to increase innovation in agriculture. Still, I did not feel that it was the right thing to ask it together in the way that it was done, and that was mostly what I wanted to make a comment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u80	A respectable president. I note that this presentation was not directed to farmers, but to those who give the strength, to those who shape the environment in which we work here, and to the fact that the state can also be responsible for having a conversation with the agriculture of how we use public funds, how we cultivate the land. I have a complete understanding that there are ways to live in this country. There are people who make money from a certain arrangement. But if the idea is that we are using public funds to support specific sectors, we must demand that it be also new to move these sectors into the future and at least to give people a choice to engage in other agricultural activities.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u81	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator greatly appreciated a very extensive talk presented earlier and entered many points. All I want to do is stop at the countryside and the state level. Only first, so I'll take that hook before I do it, it wouldn't surprise me - because of it. A senator asked: " Isn't the government merely moving the planning of our communities to the State? There was a good signal, a proposal from the constitution during the last terms for exactly taking, including, the exact time. The structure of rural areas, such as in connection with the city area of Reykjavík - so I would not be surprised if the government was now going to disseminate the members of the organization. But I'd like to ask you why. A senator, because I am deeply concerned. A senator of a lot of stress, especially financial matters, on his farms: How does he feel about it? A senator realizes that we can bridge this gap because this is an important service that fellow rurals have, especially when it comes to dealing with the disabled? [[The president calls.]] Still, that group is putting them out. We also see other litigators, such as aging, possibly going to rural areas to a greater degree. [[The president calls.]] How can you tell? A senator that enables us to deal with this so that our rural society is in its important place?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u82	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Yeah, I'm really worried about my country partner's position. It provides one of the most sensitive services in the country and is being converted to, what I'm saying, the running side drawer, the department of state funds. They are being assigned to an assignment that the funds of the Kingdom do not rely on them to do their job, and income does not follow. There is a need for a reexamination of state and rural society. In the past, too much has been moved from there to cover the financial responsibilities, and income has not moved with it. We can see that in the case of the disabled, where there are 9 billion missing ones inside. That's what happens to the people of the country. So the first step is to take up a serious debate between rural and state funds and to stop this clot between these administrative points because the fact is that the public does not differ from whether he gets a job from the Company or the state. People just want things to work, and we have to work better as a team.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u83	V.E.G. President. I especially want to agree with the last words: we should work as a team. Our people out there do not define who is doing the service; the state, our communities, or even their private business. All you need is the ministry. That is how we need to encourage all the suggestions that will help them improve their ministry to be efficient, transparent, and natural, as well. I'd like to ask you what. A senator. I agree that I miss my actions, both in the administration covenant and in the budget bill. There are all kinds of declarations of roles, but there are no actions or suggestions, either in a government covenant or in a financial bill. It is even directed. that is related to the existing housing markets. A senator has visited more often than not. I miss seeing proposals from the government to increase the trust of employees in housing markets, including so that young and wealthy people can be sustained, not just in some struggle, but permanently, buying their own homes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] How can you tell? A senator could do that?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u84	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator's reputation for housing is serious for most people. A lot of people think it's just about people who aren't in the market, but we see that a large part of the increase in housing is leaking into inflation. She's gonna hit everybody. This creates economic instability everywhere. We have to stop talking about this party. There are certain groups who make use of the resources of the state or of the countryside. But I think it really matters that people realize that these measures are designed to help some individuals get into a safe shelter, but in the same way, this creates an anchor that continues to push up the values of real estate, regardless of whether people are renting or buying. So I agree with what. A senator that I would have liked to see more there, to form in the general apartment system. They will also reduce the rise in the market, and that is what people have to understand. But it has not been the will to explain.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u85	A respectable president. Now we'll talk about the biggest bill of every government every year. Here we will discuss how we are going to spread the goodness, how we are going to keep our society going, preferably out of reasonableness. Government funds are estimated to be 955.5 billion. This year, however, expenses 1,224 billion a.m., cost 168.5 billion. The fact is, he's better, he's less fortunate than we actually allowed ourselves to hope that this pandemic would be held captive by everything he belongs to. Despite the loss of tourism, our dear people made sure that things did not get as bad and that they have not yet straightened out the cow as we hope they will. It was us, Icelanders themselves, who made sure that the economic wheels continued to spin. We did not travel abroad, but we traveled more in the country. We did good for food and drink, and instead of spending a high value of 300 billion as we usually do each year in foreign lands, the loan went to a large part of this money to us here in the form of a private intake. There were also fine actions that motivated many companies, and let us mention the efforts of the government all work. That was a very good contribution, and that is to say. We worked hard, and even at the end of the day, this campaign was further promoted by the government, so we were even able to pay back the money we had received. So it has not all been bad, and it must be attributed to the good that has been done, and we are actually better off in this pandemic than many other nations can say. Nevertheless, the economy predicts 5.3% interest in 2022, and it's great, I just have to say that. Actually, the arrival of 1.4 million tourists next year is expected, twice as many as this year. It's probably not. We're always accepting new challenges, and now the latest variant of the crown virus has been taken in place so that we can see nothing completely until tomorrow. At any rate, we can see that we are expected to continue to stick together and to overcome the huge challenge of the modern - day crown virus epidemic. There are things to do as if I'm under the law and so on. And it's like the highest. Secretary of finance has also said, he's going to finish in the next two years, selling one of our golden goose, Iceland. It's a short-of-the-art plant, I think, at this point where the banks are purring such gold that another one has hardly been seen. They've made over 900 billion dollars. In profits now from collapse, much more or less. I know, and it's natural that we don't get the money from Iceland Bank when we've sold the golden goose. I prefer that we continue to make money for a little longer. There is no reason why we have all the banks. There is no reason for us to have two, but it would be really nice to see how to treat the person we really have and to remain, who is the Lands Bank. I would have liked to see how we were going to establish a decent competitive environment into this monopolitan bank market, e.g. preaching that we will be there with a community bank that would really be for the people of the country, really. It's not long since we sold our share in Iceland Bank where prices skyrocketed and it was quite clear from the start that we were selling at subservation. But it doesn't matter, that's what it is now. I also see in these budgets that there's still a 477 billion hospital service. Well, you know, it's kind of weird. They're talking about adding money to hospitals. Why don't you just start by getting them to zero, just get them out of debt? But the good things I see about hospitals are that it's very good that the hospital should finally be properly controlled. It has been an almost headless army, and it cannot be blamed solely for the lack of funds for the hospital because it has been willing to give money there, in fact, a organizational problem, and in many ways a government control problem has rather marked the operation there. But how much money could we save to graduate our older people, who are in the middle of a long line at a Land Hospital, where they wait for adequate housing? I understand it's time to release at least 30 now soon. The remaining 80 may remain, so it can be better if it is done. It is not enough to say that we are building nursing homes all over the place, that their business must be assured, that we must provide staff for them, and to attract staff, professionals, whether they are in the hospitals themselves or around the care of the people needed to care for them, we must pay them a decent salary. That's what it says. It may be appropriate to note that since 2017 the number of government employees has increased by 9,000, no more or less, and with pay and pay related fees is expected to be around one of these 9,000, on average, about a million per month. Now, what would be 12 million, if only we were to make that number, times 9,000? It's every year, every year. This is probably in the range of 103/411 billion times. There is little to be found in this financial bill on permanent solutions to hospital business problems. Let's take a look at the past in the budget bill that's under rehabilitation. The legal rights of the mercenary are down by 70 billion dollars. and can be said that this is because of temporary proposals that had gone to the United States and Sami's. IN THE United States, therefore, no additional support is available today to compensate for the loss of business with the organization of losing money from slot machines, leaving behind the gambling addicts'grief that they leave behind in the slot machines. I thought it was really good at the U.S.A. and convincing to show that they are not ready to take at the same time money from the addicts with one hand while the other hand is trying to help them get through their addiction. If the government continued to improve their financial losses as soon as they stopped taking that money from the slot machines, I would feel that it would be a real challenge. Another thing I'd like to point out about the Vog Hospital and U.S.A. is that there are 2,200 patients who pass through the hospital Vog every year. There are 22,000,25,000 people who make use of each year's SÁA service in the form of walking departments, psychological help, and care care and outdoor care because of addictions. It is more painful than tears that we will see that the budget assumes an estimated 1.1 billion dollars. More than anything else to strengthen this health - care facility. But there's only one thing about setting 13 billion dollars. In climate problems. That's totally great. It is to be increased by billions each year to 2032. That's $22 billion now. In the climate industry. I wonder when you see things in the world where people almost walk in space suits to walk from house to place in their towns because of real pollution, and I wondered: " How would real pollution look? How is the real danger of pollution if that is what is the measure in Iceland? Is it so that we would rather starve our brothers and sisters just to show a beautiful face out in the international community to say, " Wow, you see how we Icelanded against the less fortunate ones because we're going to use the money in the climates that we haven't yet had to face. Should we wait to face her? We don't have to. However, we need to focus on trying to let them see the light that really cares about what they are doing to our earth. But to set priorities for money like this, which really prey on people who need it, is the least to say the last kind. It's also the last thing to turn down the bank tax by over 7 billion dollars. last year, at a bank that is bursting of money, and they have plenty of money to deposit in our common fund, plenty of money. It's also pathetic to see that we don't get any more dollars from our resource, our sea resources. No, you know, it's off-limits. That's why they don't reduce resources, it's just bullshit, they say. It's just bullshit that it's any less to get five point points now, or 4.7 billion from our common resource each year, over 11 billion years earlier, between the years. No, it's not a reduction in hunting costs, it's just wrong, because EBITDA is just like this. It's just a real position. At the same time, these companies are paying billions of dollars to profit from our common resource, our sea resources. I've had enough of this protection of interest around a huge billion companies who've taken over the country and the tickets and have become almost every company in the country. It's amazing that these things are not to come on the table, absolutely by surprise. I say, if we can afford these 13 billion in the climate, which we're not yet wrestling with here at home, just to show how hard we are and what we're going to help our planet, let's put twice as much in the poor people standing in line to ask for food now before Christmas. It's so much fun, everything's good green, to come out here and say, "Yes, I'm sure we're gonna put more money on the climate. But forgive the poor man, the poor father, the poor mother, and child; we have no money for you. Now before Christmas, S.A. is about to start his Christmas fairy business. I urge you all to buy the elf. I don't think there is any family in the country that is not supposed to live or to be close to someone who is suffering from alcoholism and an addiction. We know what it means to receive help, and that is where it can be found. Most specialists in the field of the disease can be found in the S.A. It is more painful than tears to see, when we know that nearly 700 people wait at the threshold at the hospital Vig to ask for help, that the hug cannot be opened and let them in there. It is absolutely absurd that this service and this disease should not be recognized in the medical system and put their arms around it like any other disease. But I hope that in the future, there will be some reduction in the prejudices that have marked almost all the circumstances around those who are struggling with this disease and around those who are fighting the system to get more crowns to help their people. On average, about 15 people die every year in this waiting period for help in the hospital hall of Vog. Is that acceptable, more dignified president? No, it's the last note, and no government should ever have to face the fact that they could have prevented it, just by acknowledging it and responding to it, not tomorrow, but now. Let's talk about disability and the affairs of disabled people. There is nothing in the budget for microbubbles, except 4.6% of the regular index-based supplements, which is January 1 each year and is due to be implemented today in January. Yes, for inflation and otherwise, it is said that you should add 1%, exactly 1 percent, to you, your micro-terrestrial criminals, of which there is a $250,000,29,000. per month. If you don't have a pension fund or anything and you're hopping yourself, you're gonna get one percent more. Wow, what a rush. This is considered a major step, just as the 22 or 23 billion put on the lowest income tax level that the government and its spokesmen never get enough to admire. But at the same time, I am at the superpowers' disposal of these 22 billion in the lowest tax step. I also get to enjoy it despite having nothing to do with it rather than the personal discount that would much rather, as the people's party has repeatedly called after, moving down to those who really need it. What does the millionaire have to do with 56,000 bucks? a month in person discount? But what could it do for the family that does not even meet the minimal improvement criteria of the Ministry of Health? What would these 56,000 bucks do? Do things for this family? They could make a big difference for her, a big difference. What do they do for the millionaire? He can buy a bottle of brandy more and let it cost $50,000 this time instead of buying $12,000. If he hadn't gotten his personal discount. It is quite remarkable how money is set out in the first place. This financial bill is based on a financial program, which is natural efficiency, it's like energy, renewable energy, recycled cans, and we're going to take it to the cans, and we're going to replace everything. However, the budget bill is not to be reimbursed. There should be something serious going on into a budget bill after a total term, where poor people have been allowed to wait for righteousness. They should stop making them wait for justice. It is completely incomprehensible, all the same, why they don't put their arms around disability as well, and their credit target is up to give them the opportunity to look into the work market. 109,000 bucks. The depositor's square end has been stuck, lead stuck, for 12 years, no less. Has it followed an index? No. Science rate of consumer prices? No. Any index? No, nothing. Let's just have it there, you guys should keep on eating what's outside, because I guess, if you're desperate, you might just have nothing to do with the job market. Or what, is that the message? That's how the message has been sent to us, exactly like that. But it's time to do something for the cripples. Yet, they should not be drawn out and tried to promote them, even if this is shown in the government covenant. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, On the other hand, double, which is amazing, the criteria for reducing wages due to the elderly'wages. Great, because there are only a few people who can use it, and this action is spoken of as costing their state funds over 500 million. K. Is it taken into account what will be returned to the state's funds in the form of indirect taxes, merit increases, and increase in consumption, becoming more likely to spend more dollars? What if you open your wallet and buy something? He shepherds the size of it. If you're going to buy some gas, what'll it do? He handles at least 70% of the price. So, really, everything is working and nothing is going to be lost. The people have repeatedly recommended that they eliminate the total decrease in income from the elderly. We have presented reports here that clearly show that this would be more likely to benefit everyone: the people'health and prosperity and well - being of the adult population that stumbles because it does not take work. It takes getting to work. People may not be able to work 100% but still want to participate. Socially, spiritually, and at least, it is better to engage and strengthen our human resources so that we can participate. That's exactly what the Specialist Party won its great campaign out on. You see, they plan to promote and invest in human resources. Who doesn't know this phrase: We're going to invest in human resources? It's just that the manpower has to be activated. How to activate it? Sweden tried to invite micro-germs to the labour market without impairment. They were trying to get those who are physically healthy but who had a hard time spiritually, by taking part and getting out of the dark and the ocean, and by the feeling of being a invalid, one at home, socially isolated. And what were the results? We've been talking about this for four years, Group of the People. We have data, we have reports that show the facts. 32% of the Sweden who entered the workforce and received this lead-in period did not return to the energy system. It must be realized that microgaps are also manned. While our community often sees us in times and governments almost always sees us as desperate as a tenth class of social citizens, it is manned in microchip. He's to be activated, respected, helped to save himself. They do not want to be receivers if they do not have to. If they do not need to, they do not want to be on the continuation of an insurance agency. They don't want to see it. I would have had a higher expectations for the government's covenant, where the left movement is to lead this government in a series of terms, and the prime minister who said in this chair in September 2017: Letting poor people wait for justice is the same as denying it for righteousness. I don't believe it until I face it, a respectable president, that these social groups should wait for another ideal time for justice. Let's talk about the over-priority in that there should be an extra percentage on top of the index increase that should correct the quality of social security rights right now in January. We're dealing with inflation. Who's real? It's such a pussy. I call it a loser, pretending to be good, to add 1 percent of you down there, your social security officers, one percent on top of the benefits. But we do know it's a blue-smelling inflation. We know it's all out of control. We know that the building is completely out of control, and almost every person with less than 2 million a month can buy a place on the market. It's incomprehensible that you should not raise the cost of microenergy pensioners, that's just unbelievable. The people also spoke, as I said earlier, for the complete removal of money from older people. When I asked for a recommendation, Einar Daðason was the highest. Minister of welfare and child-care. The matter was taken care of, and he was now going to have it determined as to whether it was right what the mob's records and calculations indicated, that it would actually be better for state funds to eliminate all the decrease in income from the elderly. It was so strange that we never ever got to know what came out of it, except, "Hey, you guys, this is just so wrong. You see, that's what Capacent said, almost the day before they hit the ground. We were never allowed to see the precept or any stirring issue of how it had been calculated in an effort to demonstrate that the calculations presented by the members of the people were wrong. That does not mean merely talking about 100 million here and 100 million there. It must be realized, too, if there are 100 million from a government fund, what he gets in return. What is he getting in return when he can buy a school bag and buy his child new shoes and coat before Christmas? What comes in the Kingdom box when they can feed their people properly by going to the store and buying like other people something other than rice, green beans, and oatmeal? It must be calculated to an end, a respectable president. The decision to take off the income of the elderly is considered to be 540 million. This is bullshit, a respectable president. We know the tax returns. What would a government fund take out of a hundred thousand dollars? that these individuals will earn? You know that. That's all the people who want to know that we're paying a lot of taxes here and probably, when all the extra taxes and the indirect taxes and the merit tax and everything on top of the whole thing, there's only a few cents left of the hundred thousand because the state has taken it all together in some form. A respectable president. This is the group of paintings I'm burning for. It's helping our people, meeting where they are, showing that here are governments that make their people really concerned and working for everyone, as the Treaty shows. They want to work for everybody. V.E.G. The secretary of finance has sometimes said that everything cannot be done for everyone. Nobody's supposed to do that. They're just talking about setting priorities of money, maybe it's not down payment on the billionaires, and having other members of society starve, not letting some people collect their money with red eyes while the other bread is missing. That's what we're talking about. A government for all society is a government that does not discriminate against its citizens. No one's talking about how everyone should be the same. Nobody's talking about Castro-Castro-Kúba, with all due respect for her. It's just that we're not here looking up at poor people one more year, one more year, closing their eyes, turning the blind eye around and pretending we don't know, and acting like the average OECD says we have it so good. The nature of the matter according to an excellent average of my salary and disability, but I'm not sure that the microchip, which is merely the forwarding of social security, would admit that he had it as best as the average would suggest. Let us see that the inflation we are taking into our arms now, too, will contribute large sums of financial resources to the increase in our loans and so on, this is over 1970 billion. So it's the inflation we need to get down. We have to beat these inflations down with all possible means, and I'm hoping it will be done. However, this needs to be done to create and construct properly. The real estate market is here completely trashed. It is quite remarkable that it hasn't been grabbed in long ago before we've completely gotten all of this in our pants.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u86	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Inga Sæland Land for an excellent speech just now. I wanted to take a moment because she met me at my heart when she mentioned that sometimes when we're talking about the government, we're throwing away the dollar and saving money. She came in fine earlier and mentioned this in the context of a case that I mentioned yesterday in my discussion about the top policy debate. Prime Minister. Is it not so, if we look at the subject of the U.S.A., where 700 people are on a waiting list, where the government does not provide funding that is sufficient for the operation to be spoken of in a decent way that is done, that precisely, with all the consequences of it, we certainly spend too little money, which we later get in the form of increased expenses?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u87	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundsson Sigmur for his answer. Yeah, you're right. These people are bad. Even though some are fortunate to get first and to receive medical attention, that is, when the person comes back into the community, there is very little you can do to control everyone, unfortunately. So these individuals often find their way back in line to find help. We'll do it all the time. That's where we save the money, we're throwing the crown, and we're treating this group in a hell of a lot of class, which is a huge collection of cool people. It's a giant bastard we're supposed to activate. If he was to come and participate in the community, he would create us with a tremendous amount of value than they really want to be, in effect, at our expense. First and last, what? A senator, should set up the matter of addicts and alcoholics by direct access to the health minister, the most direct way into the system, and recognized as health problems.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u88	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for an excellent answer. I'd like to take this discussion a little further. Now we're in the position that the government fund takes a huge blow over the pandemic, as we know, and the balance of debt may not be possible to do everything we wanted for those who are in front of their feet. Of course, we have our ambitions and goals to do well. But I'd like to ask, because we, in my group, were a little interested in pointing out that an excellent payoff for the state funds, for the sake of meeting this group, could be changing the arrangement of our hunting fees, fishing business: won't the senator be a good way of meeting the less time spent in addition to the fishing fees?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u89	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a second answer. Yes, indeed. I'm never going to get tired of talking about how we've fallen into a government fund because of a reduction in the fishing costs. I've been thinking about 7 billion more because of the bank tax. And I can't even support myself if we were to use only 30% of these 11.4 billion in improving health care and helping this community we're talking about. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson, who leads to the hospital Vogi and the activities of the U.S.A. You bet your ass I did, huh? Senator, we have this money if we just put our priorities first, people first. There is no question that money can be drawn to those who have access to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u90	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæland for today's speech, and with a whole mind in terms of the choice of disability and those who have to draw out their lives in the disability world. Like what? A senator pointed out that the provisional market for disability has been unchanged for 12 years, and the jawping between the disability reforms and the lowest remunerations without pleasure. I've wondered if maybe it's an idea that we should seriously discuss letting go of the holidays. I've never calculated it out, I don't know what that means, I'm not sure that anyone knows about it on high - but giving people an opportunity to work which we know will improve health and improve society so that we can see what they can do, and stop hanging around people who need to be on disability reforms with cards and holidays that keep it in a poverty trap.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u91	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir An anti-sponsored Þórunn Sveinbjarnardóttir's daughter. A group of people have repeatedly recommended that they remove all the losses due to the pay of the elderly and the disability of the elderly, allowing them to adapt to the labour market and to promote the human resources of the social group. Indeed, we have called upon to bring out all that we possibly can in the person to allow him to save himself. It would be better for not only the individual but also the whole community. I truly agree with that. A senator says we should eliminate these impairments and give people the opportunity to help themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u92	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Of course, there are two of the points we discuss today - really all but two. A senator noted in his speech - a problem created by men is caused by man. Poverty is another thing, climate change is the other. When the senator asked two questions together, I listened. I see what you're doing. A senator is saying, Mr. President, but I think we have to face it in our rich community that we have to do both. We need to eliminate poverty, and we too need to fight climate change. I just want to ask you what. A senator, Mr. President, whether I understood it correctly, that there is something other outlining the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u93	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for second answer. No, I simply said that if we could afford to put 13 billion people in the climate, which is not now going to be here, we can double that amount to our people first, that's what I said. Not that I'm denying what's happening on our planet right now, that's from now on. But when we talk about the priorities of the money they're giving the people, we'll say, "The people first, and then all the rest." We also say: " Those who are qualified, such as the banks, the outlaws, and others like them - take the money there. If you can put 13 billion in the climate crisis, you can put 26 billion in the people first. But let us, above all, eliminate poverty, that is the message of the Gangs.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u94	A respectable president. I cut it at the end of the day. A senator spoke of the climate problem and certainly does not deny it. I'd like to ask the senator if it counts, in the light of climate change and other social changes and changes in the world that we face in the near future, that the basis for our economic and financial systems will be established. What I mean is exactly what the senator was told about, i.e. that the system thinks people are worthless while they're not working. I'd like to ask the senator, "What's human beings? " Is it just a working person? Why not find a way to build a society where work is something that people choose to do, choose to do if they can and will but that no one needs to work to ensure the survival of their lives?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u95	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It was a bit complicated because I don't think anyone should be able to stay here without contributing to the community if he can. Man is not merely a workaholic. Our children are also known as men, who may not be allowed to participate in leisure activities or just because of poverty. All those who are here and can't enjoy themselves, I'm calling for the human being. I hope this answers the question at least In some ways. No, man is not just a working person. Man is in all of us, and we are to enjoy ourselves in the same area as we are, and we need never to live with the restrictions of poor children, such as 121.75% of Icelandic children. living today. I want the manned one, I promise the children that they will enjoy themselves and exist.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u96	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. Now I would cut off the words ▪ to contribute to the community to the ◯. It's been a long time for me. What is involved in the community? Is that really a job contribution, which is a job effort against pay, and is maintained for someone else? I can perceive a certain contradiction in the senator's presentation, which is one of the reasons why it doesn't feel right for her to get a tax charge because of her fine pay, but it considers it wrong to think that the State's contribution to the efforts of the people is impaired because of work effort. I would like to ask the senator: "At what point, at which end of pay, is it? A senator's right to ensure that a person's contribution to the State is rendered or canceled because the individual's self - income has become too high?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u97	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. What do I call it to contribute to the community? I can't quite figure it out. I don't know any better than we live in a community we have to fire, we have school, and we have all created things, and we have our government funds. We try to build it up so that we can provide the basic services society calls for, I don't intend to draw feathers over it. But when should a person not accept gifts from the common people in order to have them something a little better? It is after he has reached the hair of income, at the highest tax level, that he can take care of himself completely. A person who is self-sustaining and able to care for himself does not have to take public money. That's where I'm standing. This system of ours, however, is taxing poverty. It's taxing poor people who don't have salt for their porridge, and I feel totally below all of them that half-baked Kingdom bags, people who can take care of themselves, are accepting money from poor people who are taxed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u98	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæland Howil for the speech, inspired as always. I agree with her that the priorities of the budget bill are very intense and do not place, in fact, far enough of the importance of improving the worst in our society. However, I struck by comments. The senator's concern was for climate change and the funding being given in that struggle. I'd like to talk to her about the priorities of money and the people in this context first, because even if we don't notice now that climate change has a major impact here in Iceland, they will if we don't react. We're under attack, e.g. With regard to the rise of sea level and so forth, so that the future generations, the people who are our future, will carry a sharp object from the table if we do not react immediately despite the fact that we still do not see its consequences. I wondered, " Can't we just do both? ' Senator? And isn't it the first time people fight the climate?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u99	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Asvardsdóttir for the counter-sponsore. Do both? Yes, I have repeatedly said that if we can take 13 billion to put on the climate problem, which is truly there, and we should now be very nice and kind and think of future generations, I'd like to put it twice as much in the poor people. Then I want to take money from those who have enough of it: I want to take it from the banks. I want to take it from the sea resources. I'd like to take my product away from the count, and do so well, and have a further share in the community, but you're really doing it. That's what I'm saying: the people first. But also, I doubt that poor people are just wondering what to do in order to spend more dollars fighting the climate when they are not prepared for their next meal. I don't think that's the kind of thing. When I talk about the people coming first, I'm saying, "Let's help everyone to join in in in the community and fight against the climate problem together, not to be showing them black and white that there are 13 billion in the struggle with the climate problem while there's no money to feed people. " I want to get the money to those who have enough for it. Let's put 13 billion in the climate, put 300 billion in the climate, but always put two times more in the hands of those who need it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u100	Madam President. Poor people also have children who will experience negative consequences of climate change. So I think that many poor people have in mind what a relaxed battle against the climate could mean, could mean for their children and grandchildren. I agree, we have to do much more for the poorest people in Iceland. But I don't think this is the first place we're supposed to start cutting down in order to be. I agree completely with what. A senator: Let's start with the banks, start with the fishing road, start with the most owned. But at least I'd like to at least. Do not say that as soon as people are subjected to a certain level of income, climate change and the struggle against them would not matter or would no longer be appropriate to discuss it with those who have less involved. We also know that climate change will have the worst consequences for the poorest people in the world, so Iceland, such as Iceland, has to do far better than put out this 13 billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u101	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for second answer. I have stood in this situation, in the case of a poor parent who could hardly afford to feed his child. And I can so answer it, just as I stand here, that it doesn't really matter if you choke the kids into pollution or starve them to death, we have to realize that the situation is just that way in Iceland today that we have to establish priorities. If we were to save the world by showing our good will outside and spending almost everything we could in the climate then it would just be great, we should just do it. But that's just not the case. When I say, "The first order of money is for the people," I mean food, clothing, and shelter for all. Don't leave the people behind, don't leave them unsettled by a garden. We should not make our people feel bad because of poverty.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u102	A respectable president. I am proud, humble, and grateful to be given the opportunity to present my virgin talk here at the High General Assembly. It is not necessarily an opportunity to work for the good of the community. In matters as detailed and technologically complex as money, it is easy to forget about individual numbers and joints. What matters most is the overall picture, the ability to see the forest for the trees. What does the whole thing look like? The financial bill gives us the hope of being optimistic after the waves of the past few months, and it affords us more work. The review of the budget bill makes it clear that economic prospects have improved greatly from the contribution of the last budget. State funds have improved, and income is estimated to be higher than in a financial program. It is not default to be in this place after a pandemic that puts most countries in a difficult position. It is, in fact, searching for another nation as stable as ours in Iceland. The government of government is solidly based, and it is responsible and ambitious. Official funds during the past few months have been shaped by the economic effects of the pandemic, but it is natural that a limp has been on a government fund because of recovery and increase in expenses. However, the slope would have been significantly higher if it had not been attacked during resistance surgery, for as we now see, they yielded to good results. Government labour markets and the rapid reversal of the economy have ensured that unemployment has become more rapid than we feared to hope. We must not relax, though, that there is still a risk of long - term lack of work. So it is important to consider the workforce. The results of collective agreements will determine economic developments for the next few years. Both unemployment and inflation need to be assured that there is no problem, but inflation forecasts assume an increased optimism. State funds during the last terms and ideal economic conditions were used in the support of welfare systems and extensive infrastructure, as well as the emphasis on research and economics. But keep going. V.E.G. A government is going to promote a healthy society. The government covenant highlights increased attention to health matters. It has been proved that the level of well - being is especially measured by strong and competitive health systems. It is important that we provide suitable instruments for the strong, reconstituted health system. In this way we make sure that our valuable and fitting human beings have knowledge of society's health - care providers as best they can. We are under obligation to use all the resources in our health system and in our cooperation and sense of government and personal resources. Next year there will be also. increased contribution to the Land Hospital and open up in six high - security space, 30 new rehabilitation areas, and set up a special transportation unit in Fos Sol to cope with the epidemic. In addition to financial contributions to health care, there is an increase in the increase in donations made to the health care unit. They raise the budget for mental health problems, but only temporarily. A lot of discussion has been made about the status of nursing homes in the country. It is a pleasure to add funds to nursing homes and to make improvements in older rooms. The nation is getting old and important that we have a vision of the future in service to our older people. We need to make sure that people live at home as long as possible with dignity, security, and a ministry that they can rely on. We face the challenge of solving nursing problems. That challenge must be faced with power and practical wisdom. The government's policy during the coming terms is to improve the interests of older citizens. The first step is to raise the income of a $200,000 pensioner's income. every month for next year. The action has long been called for, and it has been a pleasure to see it become a reality. In order to balance opportunities for employment in the country, electricity development continues with emphasis on distribution and the delivery of electrical energy to rural areas. The project will then be submitted without a location, including by creating circumstances and developing ideologies. The concept of sustainable and righteous transitions and more competitiveness will be the policy of the government in existing climate change and technological changes affecting every aspect of society. Increased opportunities for energy exchange are with green energy. We're here to take advantage of that opportunity and to ensure that Iceland's government policy will become a sub-carbon economy. The structure of the restored, safe, and efficient transport will continue to be emphasized. During the last term, much work was done on transportation, and that work will continue. No doubt it would take my entire speaking period to list important work that will be carried out, and that is a positive sign. But we can take action on Fjords as an example of important actions that must be completed as soon as possible. The objective is to ensure that Iceland's rural areas will be a powerful and sustainable site of democratic activity. For this to be realized, the work situation of elected agents and the promoting of sustainable development across the country must be improved, including with equality in the rural administrations, strengthening them and creating an increased awareness of the importance of diverse opinions within them. Reviewing rural income organisations with the aim of increasing the sustainable development of rural society, raising the amount of donations in the equation and adding support from the fund to the cohesion of rural society. A respectable president. We're starting a new terms. It is the common interests of all of us to ensure good life and good housing conditions for all the people of the country regardless of their status and economic situation. The financial bill for the year 2022 is the key to what should come.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u103	President. This is a huge document we have here, which was ready for a long life but came too late for the council, as often has happened in the history of this government, late and later. This meeting had to be delayed twice to wait for the distribution of the budget bill because it may have to be submitted at the first meeting. However, it was basically third of the first meeting, and then the bill was finally submitted despite the fact that, as was said earlier, it should have been ready for elections. There are a few things I would like to discuss about something related to the budget, they might come into this a little bit. These are questions that need to be answered, and I'm going to do a little different in my case. Then I'd like to try to involve the Environment Minister only in the discussion of the regulations in the government Treaty about 55% reduction in emissions, but we had 29% up to that point. In a prior financial and financial programme, the estimate was that there would be a 29% reduction in climate goals. All right. It was expected that 10 billion, or so each year for several years, would finance that schedule, to finance the mines just 30% - 30% contractions. Great. Then, in the spring, it was suddenly announced that Iceland was going to reach 55% contractions, 15% more, a 50% increase in contractions really -- it's hard to say that, but all right - from 30%, or actually from 40%, as said, and 55%, but it was actually supposed to be 30%, and it's been raised by 55%. We're talking about almost double real difference. The problem is, we didn't know if 55% really meant a drop or 55%, if it was the way we are now, off the 40% we were supposed to get, i.e. with the European Union and Norway. These teams were planning to reach a 40% decrease, while the share of Iceland in it was 29%. So says Iceland in spring: It is now a new objective, with Europe and Norway, 55% reduction. All right, this is great, 55% contraction. Then, of course, you ask yourself, " What is Iceland's share? ' Is she 55%, or is she going to be over 40% or what? Clearly, there was no answer. Today, however, the government contract has set out that Iceland's own aim is reaching 55%. It may well be that people draw them from their hat to the point that they are living for a year or so apart from others, which is often obtained in 55%. Who knows? I have no idea, but I suppose this will fit the others. The last financial program, after 55% of contractions were published, was added 1 billion. It is the same billion now in the environment that is spoken of as adding and maintaining each year for ten years, a total of 10 billion each year. It is expected to achieve this new target by 55% independent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, which is a change from the target that all plans previously planned, 30%. I don't understand why it costs 10 billion a year to finance schemes to reach 30% of contractions, but it costs only 1 billion more to reach another 25% contractions. I just don't get it, so I want to ask a environmental minister and drag him into this discussion: Is the current plan we have for greenhouse gas emissions? Does she have surgery to reach 55%, or does she need to add something special? Is the current budget for financial management and funding needed to achieve this goal, in order to achieve a 5-5% plan? I expect the answer to be no. But if not, what? Let's leave it up to 2023 to get a new budget on budget, etc. for a new schedule that allows for more projects to reach 55% aims? Then we're really close to the 2030, really getting high on that. I'd like a environmental minister to come here and tell us why they have this realistic goal, with this funding and the plan they have in their hands. What have they, by the way, cut back on the Constitution or on the work that has already been proposed to explain this difference from 30% to 55%? All right, let's do it that way. But this is an important question, I think, especially in terms of the budget. Another thing I'd like to talk about is the pension of a pension. I got a hint for an election that there was something odd going on with the money shortage of pensions. All right. I'm accessing the insurance company calculator and entering a sensibilities pensioner with 400,000 bucks. In industry and 400,000 dollars. In payment from a pension fund. The plan is there that the payment of a pension fund is impaired as a professional income. There's a set-of-the-art ticket that's not supposed to take into account the pension payments. If I enter the same person 400,000 bucks. - I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. These are two examples, one about a pensioner who receives 400,000 bucks. In industry, just, and on the other hand, in a pensioner who gets 400,000 bucks. In payment from a pension fund, just... That's 56,000 bucks. on paid pension payments because the payments from the pension fund are less than money, and the vacation market is not working as a part of the income. And now it's complicated, so I'm asking people to be patient, it's not simple to explain: income tax laws assume that pension payments are simply the income that you pay the income tax from, etc. No problem. That's understandable. Social security has an exception from the fact that pension payments are considered to be professional revenues. Okay. Let us see. 3 mg. Section 16. Social security law states that in the case of microenergy pensions, it is not considered to be a income in spite of other aspects of this law, which state the laws on social security and social support, financial support of rural society, and related job-related pensions. Nice. According to this article, it is not income, employment income, when you receive payment from mandatory job-related pension funds. As a result, the job vacation target is not working, it is not entering that section. Okay. Nice. But in 4 mg. Section 16. is not to be found with the same exception, which is, in fact, considered to be a means of earning money from mandatory job-related pension funds. The article explains that in the case of pension - this is the result of changing the 2016 law, which made a distinction between microenergy pension and pension because those with pension went into another system, a new system, while those in disability did not want to be involved in that change - would not be counted as worthwhile despite 2 mg. damage as assessed by the national health insurance and the social aid laws, local financial support, special pensions, and additional insurance protection laws as per law on life insurance rights and pension management. The same is true of similar improvements from countries that Iceland has established. But that's not the sentence of required employment-related pension funds, it's missing. In a 22nd degree. Social security laws are then discussed with this special market for employment. It says that microenergy, accident, or rehabary pensioners should be paid - Jonathan does not use a pensioner's pension insurance for his additional pension to cover almost 1 million dollars. If you've earned a pension according to 2 and 4 mg. Section 16. - not 3. mg., in which it discusses a biofuel, a remarkable piece - it reduces the income insurance of 38.35% of the income until it drops. Remuneration from mandatory job-related pension funds at a rate of 300,000 dollars. However, per year this paragraph should not impair your income insurance. This is interesting because there's a difference. Because they don't have a pension in there, this article doesn't take this article into account the pension. So there is a disagreement between how the law is now and what it used to be when mandatory financial contributions were not considered to be making money. But the law as it was, if we go e.g. back to 2014, just specified that pension payments were not considered such a income for seniors. Then the article was: In the case of sensibilities and disability, there are no income laws on social assistance, financial support of rural society, and contributions from mandatory job-related pensions. There's pensions, too. The word "Karelli" was removed from law No. 116 from 2016. According to verses 3 and 4. Section 16. Social security laws are pay made from the pension fund for sensibilities to seniors, and therefore, according to the Social Security Act, a special cut-off goal should be applicable to pay from a pension fund. But 23rd par. is just about the amount of pension and the flexible retirement of a pensioner's pension is over 3 million years; pensions should be reduced by 45% of the income of the pensioner, as is 16. ... untilthe pensionsfall. That's a $300,000 bank for a senior. In general, the income market for the calculations of a pensioner, which will have a special income market for a pensioner. This is interesting because the word has already been removed, and payment has been removed from the related job-related pensions of the 16th grade. which should deal with any general income in general employment income is not considered to be a job income in the definition of social security laws. This means it's full of sensibilities who receive pay from professional pension funds that aren't classified as employment income from a insurance agency but whose law is legal. On the basis of the prehistoric process and how this has developed, it is simply a mistake, probably because when the desperate decided not to be included in this transition package, these articles had to be divided into a relative hurry in 2016. So in the same way that we were dealing with a bill that was cited in the wrong articles, and no pensions could be impaired, it was 1,5002 billion a month at the beginning of 2017, when it appears that we are dealing with error here. However, this would have some effect on me, in the context of the next year's budget, because if we know of this error, we would probably want to assume it at least, although it will in part be up to 2106, 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2021. I look forward to seeing whether this defect that was pointing out the situation. This is not a few billion. This issue is not as extensive as the 2017 case, a few billion a month. I would guess it's the same amount a year or something like that, rather than in a month, which is the solution. Still, it is not much to deal with, and it is a little sad to face this issue now that the council has been on vacation for six months and has only this time just before the end of the year to cope with it. There are other things in these budgets that I'm going to accept the classical criticism. That's what everyone knows, government law. That, according to the whole law, the form, that we have already burned ourselves a little over the past few days and weeks, to be a costly estimate of government policy, to be a profit analysis, and to be prioritised. It's important to keep it under the law, so we know why the government is asking for this and this. If I look up some random page, it says here that the working conditions of an elected agent will be improved, at the Department of Transport and Division. What is the purpose of this? The objective is to ensure that Iceland's rural areas will be a powerful and sustainable site of democratic activity. Great. I like that very much. How much is this? That's what they say: an incredibly remarkable frame of motion. When I was trying to get through the budget, financial plans, I only saw some huge amount, which is the other one called a box. There's a amount of money in this topic field from last year on, that's the box. That's great. What does it mean in the big context? Can somebody tell me? No, okay. But here, where we have a law on hospital operating and the possession of child care committees and Children's Institutes and Personal Protection and State Attorney and the like? Why do these institutions cost so much or so little? What are their specific assignments? If we have this connection between them - we're putting a law here at the Council. We're taking public funds and setting laws on how we're going to use it in the public money we've agreed to with the State's legislation, its execution. Then we must always be able to ask: Here's a project for the legislature that we've put you in the European Commission for, how much money do we need? Government bills are set up in this way that each of them has a cost estimate. Great. But if I ask you five years later what cost is really the same bill, the projects that were put on that bill, does anyone know? No, I don't know. Why not? There is no good answer. We should know. Of course we should know. In the case of these legal tasks that we place in the Commission to enforce them, we should be able to trace to the financial resources that we agree to the projects we have agreed on to perform. We should always be able to ask ourselves: " Is it possible to do this differently or in a better way? We're always supposed to be asking the authority to do that. Why is this so, but not gay, which is cheaper and better? For this reason, financial evaluation of government policy needs to be required, and therefore, benefits are also needed, since governments are expected to offer many possibilities. We say, for example.: Dissolve the problem. Please make sure that children are educated. In fact, it is a simple recipe for education. How you governments do that, we don't care about anything, we just want to guarantee these rights. Then it comes back with: Yes, we're going to do it with this and the other and this way. Or we can do it differently. We can do this by having our rural communities run the schools or by going to an invitation to a private school and getting a private school up and down, it doesn't matter where we cities, here or there. However, it must be reasoned that one way is more profitable or more profitable than the other, and we will never receive that support. He's always missing. Then we will not be able to decide which way to go. The problem is, in fact, bigger than that, since we are not even allowed to choose ways. There's only one way to go. It's just this way, over. But what else did you consider? There's never any answers. That's all we're looking at. It was just the best way, over. The Agency should show us that other possibilities have been examined and that they were excluded from being too expensive or too complex or too self - demanding, giving reasons why other routes were rejected. So that's where it comes from. The total budget as it was last time. What we now deal with in the budget is called a budget bridge. There will be limited expenditures, decompositions, deposit beds, and remuneration and new frames for the next year. In the budget, we are usually looking at just that bridge, that team, bound expenses, spending space, and maintenance, etc. In this regard the government's policy is improvements that come or collapses, there is a risk of some task or such, based on the frame of the previous year, and we are investigating what the changes are and why - and that is a key - being about to improve the working conditions of elected agents. The answer needs to be answered. It must be possible to say what it costs and what the benefits are. It doesn't have to be, as I said to the highest. Ministers in response to his transfer address, to be precise, or intelligent. Nor is it required to have at least They've been evaluated. Perhaps it is not always possible to make a financial assessment of it, not at all, and it is not what is requested but what the benefits are for the community in general. This is where rural communities are making the scene for democratic activity. It's just a mistake, that's all. I really don't care what it costs. If it had come up to some dozen billion, I'd put my finger into it, but if it were in the modest, reasonable range, I don't care how much democracy costs. It would also be an opportunity to say: There are other better ways to achieve the same goal at lower costs. But we are not allowed to compare these methods. We are not allowed to know exactly what is being done, what it costs, and why. What I usually look at is the spending range and also the maintenance. In reality, the currency gap is supposed to be government policy: This costs it. This is what we're going to do. And it can be seen if the government wasn't here that there was no new task in this regard. That would be an 0 in the budget range called. So we look at it in particular. What are governments doing, and why? That's always the biggest question when we're dealing with the budget. The other part I've made comments with is a holding, an appendage. That's 39 million locals. It's not too much. For example, in the chapter "Justices of Justice " are presented in this section. 249 million maintainable. What, though, is to be done? What are some of these? There is no answer. Why not? Why do we not have a schedule that shows where the opportunities are? It is also a question that the executioner should always be asking himself. And when both of us, all of us, know where the opportunity is to maintain it, we are, of course, ready to finance it, because it often costs money, as it has been said about technological development, which is a cost that saves us long - term money. Then it's really easy for the executives to come and say, "Hey, we have a project here to make education less expensive, simpler, more efficient for students, and that makes life and fun better. And we say, " Great, we'll make it money because it's a good investment for the future. ' We spend a billion now, but we make up an infinite amount of money to an infinite future, if that happens. On the other hand, it's only 2.5%, so go ahead, hold, you'll just have to sort it out. That's the way it's been a couple of beds since I've been considering these cases. It's a good thing, it's a bad idea: we had 17.2 billion last time, we only control it. We have a project, it takes a little something, but let's just say it's inside a frame. What does that mean, inside the frame? Wait, isn't it still, forgive me, new assignment you're about to take on? This money was likely used for something else. What happened to that assignment? Should it not be eliminated if it is no longer needed? Then the government has to specifically apply or specify that the money added to the box again is for new projects, not just in some frame. This has been an interesting battle, reducing the level of transparency from the financial process. It hasn't worked yet but aims toward it. People nod, but then it doesn't really happen, it's classic. The last thing I'd like to talk about in this round is usually the biggest joint, the salary and the rewards, as a matter of course. paritaprevir Kristrún Frostadóttir just walked in. That's where we're going, what I'm gonna say, it's built-in insurance. So are contracts and the like, okay, but the benefits are at least things, everything's being rewarded. It has built - in growth. This vicious circle of inflation, which feeds itself. It's like if I rent an apartment and it's inflated, which is why rent goes up because of inflation, total house prices or rent prices rise, inflation goes up again, which goes back into the contract, and I have to pay a higher rent that's just a new ring, and I'm paying higher rent, etc. It's a chain reaction and a vicious circle that'll ruin everything we do. There's always some automatic interest involved. And it is particularly bad when governments expand this cycle instead of trying to break it. This is done by an increase of 2.5% in petals. Even if they are below the level of inflation, they still fantasize it, in the wrong place. By pouring money into demand for housing, the price of housing that makes inflation becomes apparent, since the price of housing goes into the inflation criteria that raise loans to those who are fortunate, it increases these financial benefits. That's how there's a circle of confusion. Instead of cutting this off and trying to maintain some sort of balance in terms of government, there is a lack of transparency in everything. There is a lack of collective thinking. All I can bring back at this time is an incentive to stop.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u104	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for quite a review of the budget. I know he's a lot of numbers, and I thank him for being the nerd of his jobs for the public because we're talking about the money of the public when we're dealing with the budget, not the secretary's money. Because of the urgency of the situation. A senator would like to ask if he remembers what money is, in addition to his previous plans, the next year's funds for mental health care, or whether it is a substantial amount of money. Can the senator tell us about this? Happily, we have reacted in a number of ways because of a pandemic crown virus and, as an example, have put about 100 billion of us in the tourism business, which was absolutely necessary to react. But I wonder what. A senator can tell what grand attendance we will see in the budget of a mental health problem in the coming year.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u105	A respectable president. It's a 1st. and a short time since we were given the budget bill. After reading it a little bit, I remember that some way I was supposed to put extra money on mental health, within my medical care. But because of how transparent the budget is, I don't know if it's just a repetition of the same amount it was last year. There's a bit of a story about the same change, being repeated numbers that we've previously seen as if it's just a mistake about us, whether they're new numbers or not. So I haven't been able to tear this thing apart properly to see if the mental - health program is fully valuable or not. It's just that the answer is no more complex than that. There is a review on page 18. 127, 128, and suddenly I don't see accurate numbers there. It says: In addition, a growing mental - health service has been emphasized. These are the natural financial laws of finance. I'd be interested to explain that it was better disbanded and explained. Instead of just having this kind of text flow, it would be more available in tablet form than in computerized form. There's nothing extremely accessible, there's often some sort of Microsoft BI solution on the board of directors or the Ministry of finance, and there's a lack of interference with government policy, what's on top of it. Is this systematic growth, any of these growths, or something like that? Is this because of a government policy project, or is it just automatic?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u106	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer is well aware that he cannot determine exactly which numbers are involved. I heard somewhere in the world that the government who plans to pursue a mental - health crisis is planning to put 400 million people in mental health because of the next year Covid. Of course, if you compare it to 100 billion in a trip service for Covid, it's a bit screaming and if you compare it with the statistics we received from Iceland's health insurance for a bill approved here at the General Assembly for one more than one year's payment, that would cost about 875,750 million a year. But remember, last year 47 individuals took their own lives. The government intends to add a 400 million shit to a mental - health program to straighten out the high angle in the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u107	President. That's exactly the government budget I'm looking at. I point to page 18. 127, that is one of them, the rest of which are on page. One, two, three, three, three, four, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, It's just this wall of text, which is called mental health. I can't quite figure it out. I read somewhere 300 million, that I remember, 400 million might be right. But when I read it, I wasn't exactly sure if it was the new or the old numbers, and I was also referring to 300 million on those old suggestions, old financial suggestions, etc. So I just scratch my head like I do very often in the discussions about it. I remind you of the proposal from Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, approved for 2015 on the computer profile of Congress documents, i.e. that this isn't a pdf file or a book that we always have to get into -- still fulfill that pdf proposal and I don't see that any steps have been taken to finish it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u108	A respectable president. I just want to take this opportunity and thank you. A senator for the queries. I think it's safe to say there's a big question, and it's okay. This is an important group of subjects that is important, and I think we just have to face the fact that men are doing it as best they can, in view of the information available. But like the rest of the world, our commission is to achieve very ambitious goals. It is a journey that has begun, and it would be surprising if we did not see any changes on the way. I would be surprised if the exact way in which that case is going to be resolved would be completely premeditated. I think the best thing to do is to approach the project with sincerity and honesty as far as we're going on a journey that calls for cooperation much more people than are in here, I don't talk about within the government, because everyone, the economy, the pasture, and the public, has to come to that. As it is now, there are many uncertainty factors in the process we are trying to process as fast as possible. But we do not do so alone. As much as I appreciate it when it rains. A senator comes here asking about some of the budgets and implementations of them - that's good. A senator gives a good hold as he should - I'm just honest that this is the situation, and we have to face it. Does this mean that humans do not have the means to work when it comes to plans and such? Yes, people have, but we know that it is unlikely that there will be any change on the way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u109	President. I asked the following two questions: Is the current projection program required to achieve a 55% decline in emissions? I understand the answer to a minister that you won't. It'll take more than that. All right, I totally understand, because this new goal has just been set. So I ask: Is the current budget needed? It'll probably do for the 30%, I suppose. So, how much of this difference, from 30% to 55%, is there any hope of getting some work started right this year to bridge the gap from here to 55%? Is that what you find in this budget bill? I am absolutely aware that this is a portable goal, i.e. that the solutions are available in new technologies and such, and we may jump to some other solution after three years when something new appears or when Carbiffx becomes much better at zero time, which could solve much of the problem. Let us say that this would happen. We would, of course, be able to jump to and use the money for some time. I'm just trying to figure out the context of these budgets according to the existing operation plan, how far it works up to 55% and how far it works as well. It was added a billion. How far will this do, according to the Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u110	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his second input, and he entered certain factors, such as. Carbix, how much it'd remember. I know why. A senator knows this sect well. He could go over and mention many other things. Here's the point: We've got some funding here to do this work. There's no dispute. But, hey. In effect, a senator is asking very large questions and wants very clear answers and what I am drawing attention to, which I know to be why. A senator knows very well, that it would be very irresponsible for the person here to give an accurate answer to this big plan that we know is uncertain. Hv. A senator mentioned some examples, but I know that he could give a lot more, he could give a long talk about all the uncertainty involved. The important thing is, we're here with funding to continue the sea, and it's important that it succeeds. [[The president calls.]] But it won't go well unless everyone hangs up on one thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u111	President. This is the classic way to avoid answering, to say, "I can't give you exact answers. " I'm not asking for exactly the exact answers, I'm asking for the exact answers I can give. I know people may not be able to say, it's going to cost 179 million. Then say that it costs between 100 and 200 million or something. Or: I don't know, but it's somewhere around tens of millions, maybe up to some 300. Let's make a little bit of a little bit of a wait for the government to know what they're doing. If there isn't even an inaccurate answer that we receive, it's just: I can't answer the exact thing, so I'm not gonna answer anything, we won't make it. In all the less critical of its lack of cost analysis and profit analysis, etc. I'm asking for the minimum in the first place. Then you'll be more specific later. Let's start with the minimum.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u112	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I did not explain, I may have missed it, a very specific question, but I decided to come up with an answer if they might become any. I realize that I won't be able to answer them when he starts, but I missed the fear of having a conversation with him. A senator, so I decided to show up. The discussion, what I have achieved, is very good and beneficial. I know the job at work. We're all going to benefit from a legal committee. I want to say something again with a what. A senator mentioned in his speech, and I think we can all agree that when we first receive the bill here, it's a lot, we figured it out in the overall context of the sum. Since there are dozens of cases, over 100 in 35 languages, this is a lot of material and turn it over to make all the information come out, so that the publication is correct. There are, of course, very good and helpful chapters there. But the transparency is something that awaits you. The legal committee has made a conversation with the Ministry. I can just admit right here and now that I'm just about the same place as the people who are participating in the discussion here, who just got assigned to the highest level. Secretary of health, to go through this. But if there are any questions. A senator would like to make a point of expressing himself is likely to try to respond.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u113	President. That'll give you the highest. A minister sees an entire minute to answer the questions I have two minutes to ask. No, all right, I can't wait to get the highest. Minister on the budget, on the other side of the table, to answer questions. I know exactly what questions he's expecting. He also knows the kind of answers we expect, so it will be so much fun to see how they develop. That may be one question of the highest degree. During this minute, a minister will respond: The temperature is 16 billion in the increase of the health system, his subject. I called for the social and employment minister, unfortunately he couldn't be here so I'll take another ten-minute speech tomorrow to finish what he was doing; I've been discussing the decrease in his pension from his point of view, so he'll come and answer it here later. But these 16 billion, which is really because of the government's dating decision to provide an additional contribution to the health system? A lot of this is just an increase in drug costs, there's real growth, and things you wouldn't say you'd consider a higher contribution to the government. Although the government was in the bathroom for a year, a contribution to health would still increase, although the government did nothing. What of the 16 billion in question could a minister say that it is indeed because of the government's decision to increase their contribution to health at this time? Then I'd also like to break Covid off because there are special circumstances with respect to Covid. There may be an answer next to a minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u114	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's question, that's a great question. How tempting it would be to say that those 16 billion were a policy decision! Governments because it's real. Then you would think, and at least, that it would be then on the basis of a policy-making decision. The overall cost is greater than that. The senator took a good look at the film we have in the budget bill on these financial expenses and benefits. The big picture, of course, is this, and it is very well reflected in the will of the government, from 2017, that there has been a major increase in health costs. Then, the total cost can be fliered, and the stipulated expenses can be taken to remove the pension debt and unemployment score because it only confuses the image. It's really a great question I'm going to answer in a general way, but I'm going to lay down on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u115	President. I'll leave this behind as a minister for his visit to the branch office, where I look forward to getting more explanation and disunition on just these points. I know that as the former chairman of the budget board, he has seen in practice what I've been trying to disunite so that I know he's coming ready to introduce his seminaries to a financial committee with that in mind, such disunition. I love working with the highest. Minister back in the new role of the same committee room. Of all councilmen, I must say that this conversation with him will be of far greater interest. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u116	Madam President. I agree with what. The last speaker was that having the highest will always be the most fun thing in a budget board. A health minister has a meeting to go through, and I'm sure we'll tease him a little. I'm going to start now, although there may not be very many new members in the hall, even though there are some people, to congratulate them on their seat here, and, of course, I hope to have a good cooperation with all of them. I think it's a fun job. Also, it is always nice to meet people in a new field, and I trust that we will be able to get together on a wide range of subjects. We have seen the priorities of the government in an all - important government contract, and it appears in some of this financial bill, and we can honestly say that not all is solved in the first financial bill of this government. But we continue to take important steps. V.E.G. The financial and economic secretary Bjarni Benediktsson did well over the economic grounds in his history and the emphasis found in the bill between the budget years. Governments have been used intensively, and the results have not only increased economic activity but also a better debt than we anticipated. We will see what has taken over our job life, and fortunately, unemployment is on the decline. It helps to see how well the economy has handled itself and perhaps as well as the work - market activities established by the government. This is reflected in the better views of the State Fund from a current financial programme, with some 66 billion recoverys and an estimated 955 billion income coming next year. We still need to be careful. We know that improved economic status is accompanied by, we assume, the support measures we've had for Covid will expire. Our mission, then, is to contribute to the stability of prices and to the maintenance of growth. This is very important, especially if the compensations that the homes have received can become permanent. Initial estimates estimated that the State Fund debt rate would increase by 30% by the end of 2020, as we will see in the financial programme, and it would continue this year to the next and then be about 42% of GDP. But now it is assumed that the debt will be some 200 billion lower, which is very enjoyable and thus only about 34% of GDP, or some 170 billion. You see, it is also our job here to support the money policy and part of it is to reduce the underlying angle of a government fund as we want to grow out of the crisis. During the ultimatum that had just reached its completion, we were able to gain extensive tax reforms. We reduced individual income taxes, resulting in an increase of 23 billion households. Of course, this was done primarily in an effort to reduce the burden of their income. The restoration of the economy and the postnatal financial situation remains at the beginning of this terms. We're still seeing a new variant of the virus, and we don't know what it means, and we just have to deal with it as it happens, as we've done up to this point. But it's important to regain the status of the state funds, and we need to ensure long-term sustainability of the state's budget. The actual increase in the annual budgets, especially in connection with the government's measures due to the Korean epidemic, has been considerably more than one quarter, since 2017. In spite of this, I'd like to explain only the key issues presented in the bill we're here on. Then we will discuss the financial agenda, and then we will adopt a financial agenda in March. I think we're setting priority for what was called after, at least when I was talking to the voters. We continue to put first the health, education, transportation, and reforms in the affairs of sexual abuse. Of course, this is just a fraction of what is being done. We, as we have been traced here, are going to improve the health support of the health system, e.g. with a special transportation unit at the Land Hospital and an increase in both intensive care and rehabilitation reports. We are going to build a nursing home and restore the older ones there, but we need a financial committee to call attention to how matters have worked out because we know, as stated in the Supreme Court. The financial and economic secretary that the money has not all come to work and that's what we have to get information about. We're going to continue to reduce the patient's payment and to increase the contribution made to mental health, to raise the benefits of disability pensioners, to senior income markets. We will try to continue to expand and integrate the ministry for the benefit of successful children, continue with climate deportation, and, as I said, we are going to support and build up with great strength in transportation, as well as in public transportation. Not to be overlooked is the fact that we will continue to make additional contributions to global development. There's been an additional advance due to growing students at college and we're going to continue with it, and that's one of the things we need to consider. There are, for example. Not quite correct numbers in the financial context and the bill shows that they need to be updated. We have increased payments for film making and we continue with investments and building initiatives. The largest paid team is to strengthen the Land Hospital, and what may weigh on it may be the hospital's construction. I also feel that it is important here to remember that we place much emphasis on the rural population in a number of ways. A couple of of that's a change in the superintendent. We stress the increased cluster structure and support of our communities. We're going to continue building our general housing system, and that's where I feel. It is very important that the country is specifically referred to. There will continue to be an emphasis on electrical security in the rural area, which I consider extremely important. We continue to increase funds for research and innovation as well as reimbursement for film making. We are also going to strengthen the police, which I believe are long - term and further strengthen the business of the county. It's also--now I'm here confused. But I'm just going to say here, because I'm not going to have a long speech, I don't think it's necessary, that this financial bill reflects the focus of government on growing out of the crisis, continuing to build prosperity by investing in people, infrastructure and innovation. Our goal is clear; to promote continued economic stability, as we know that it is essential to home recovery. This is a diverse task that we face in this regard, perhaps one big issue ahead of us as the work market. It is very important that we contribute to continued economic stability, which is the prerequisite for maintenance of our betterment. We need to ensure good interaction between the economy and the collective agreements. Of course, our goal should always be to improve the standard of living, to be our goal forever. I believe we're continuing to create an environment that supports the growth of valuables. By supporting digital infrastructure, we increase efficiency, secure security, improve service, and competitiveness. The economy has been responsible and has brought us a better community, and we want to continue to support those in need and give them equal opportunities to all. All I want to say is that there's a lot of work to be done on a budget board ahead. It is clear that time is running out for the council. The budget board to win this thing and to paint this bill, go into the stitches of a number of causes, receive visitors, and call out for more information, and, as we have seen here in reply today, is also extremely important that we receive sound information from the council, especially since we are changing the Council considerably. I think it's perfectly clear that there's considerable transfers and considerable change, and we have to get room to get into it. Of course, these early presentations from the council are a little bit on the bill, I suppose, and that's why I think we need to take some time to do this carefully and just call out for more detailed information like that. Yeah. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson mentioned a conversation with a minister earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u117	A respectable president. First, I'd like to congratulate my daughter Olsen Gunnarsdóttir on being the head of a budget board. I cut it by earlier that she didn't mention an invalid's name. Of course, she spoke of an increase in an elderly citizen's leisure market of 100,000 dollars. In 200,000 K. I ask, then, did you not have a discussion about this increase, as well as raising or double the cost market for microloathers of 109,000 dollars? of 218,000 bucks. Then there is also the question of whether there is something to do and if she knows of any monopolys that will make it up for the past few years, both Covid and a huge rise in food prices and certain goods, whether it is in the lake to do something for that group.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u118	Thank you. A senator resists the question. The reason I didn't mention the disability is that I never have the magazines that typed that print, and I just gave half the talk. That's why it was on me, too, earlier. That's one of the things I was going to discuss, this big case, both micromanagement, older civil affairs, and climate issues, and other things I have to come to here later when we go to the next talk. That's what I got involved in, because I knew I was finished with the Hospital building. We have not yet spoken, but we have been pleased to discuss these matters in the budget of conversation and when we have received the bill, as it were. A senator knows. It's just something we have to work on, and it'll probably be called by someone on the committee, if we have to deal with this, as we've done, have orlofs and Decembers that haven't been reduced and take care of it. We burned ourselves a little bit off for the first time. The decision has not exactly been made, and most of all, this additional percentage has been discussed, but we'll just discuss it on a budget board.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u119	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answers, and I hope to the extent that they will be considered because we know and we have realized in this room that the only thing that really comes to a pensioner and a desperate person and others is taxless income, as the system is built up. Of course, there's going to be a priority for us and a complete number one, two and three to change this system so that we don't have to worry about it every time it's an up to the worst of them that they don't return to their pockets, they're running through their pockets and straight into their state funds or in their farm societys. Something else I'm also worried about is the health system. There are 100 people, older citizens, trapped in the system with 200,000 bucks. daily. It's time to deal with this, isn't it? Isn't this part of trying to stop throwing away the dollar and saving the money?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u120	A respectable president. Thank you. This is for a senator. Last night a social and employment minister showed that it was just taking the first steps like this percentage improvement. As we know and have often discussed, making the insurance system simpler, more beneficial, and more righteous is the largest interest. Of course, this means that we have to deal with the trials we are facing. We have not been able to do so until now. But we must be effective in this. The Treaty plans to attack them, as well as to increase the potential for people with impaired skills for rehabilitation and employment, but also to ensure the survival of those who are unable to work, and we don't do with the system as it is, or are walking at least. very slowly. That's why I think it's a fundamental premise that we get some sort of conclusion and some kind of reconciliation. [[The president calls.]] We tried in the last term, and it didn't work out, so we have to keep doing this work.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u121	Mr. President. That was my choice in a talk of the highest order. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Department of Social Affairs and Work, both of them stressing the need to improve the quality of the elderly and the older ones in the most difficult situation. There's no sign of the budget bill. I don't call it a sign of raising disability and rehabilitation money to the level of the centenarian pension. So it is with interest that the difference between those who have to rely on the pay of social security and the lowest pay and the insurance will be $88,000. month 1st of January I want to ask you why. A senator is sure she will not follow the words of the highest. Prime Ministers and social and workforce ministers, and take action on a budget board to reduce this space, for what is expected in the budget is quiet, I'll say, when the situation is as serious as it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u122	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I don't think it's funny. This is a first step, like the highest. Minister mentioned here yesterday. The most important thing is that we can handle the system to prevent all of these impairments because one leads to another. Indeed, I would like to make things faster, I would want to do it, I confess it quite. But this is what is suggested in the bill this time, and of course we are also talking about improving social housing so that people can be sheltered at acceptable ideals. Of course, there are multiple measures that benefit the lowest paid and are in this system; decrease the pay factor, etc. In health insurance. For bone and improvement, as for the rest of the population. A senator asks about this is the step taken on the bill. Emphasis is placed on reaching the conclusions at first in changing the system to be a real advantage for disability.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u123	Mr. President. That is exactly what was said every year for the entire last terms, and nothing happened. Now it's called a step in increasing the disability and rehabilitation value by 15,000 bucks. The biographer contract assumes more than 17,000 dollars. increase in minimum income insurance. Of course, it just disappears into the inflation, but it's still that dollar number. It's supposed to leave invalids and pensioners in the worst position. On the other hand, the perks of pay pay pay pay should be raised for the most successful pensioner who works. It's just a nice step, but it's the cheapest of all steps you could possibly take. Since 2009, the pay market for micropigs has not changed, the same dollar number. [[The president calls.]] She should at least to have doubled if there had been a pay number. [[The president calls.]] Is it not as important to encourage micro-organists to be active as a possibility to force themselves out of the peninsulated poverty trap? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u124	Mr. President. I can say that we're supposed to raise the income of a pensioner. That's part of what's set up here. There's been a lot of workouts. We senators know this and are guided so far. However, another approach is now being proposed. I'm gonna let myself trust that there's a better way to go than the rest of our last beach, it's obvious that we can't go on. This highlights a new system and allows people to choose whether they will enter that new system or not. And if people do, they can also have a chance to go back so that they will not risk people if they choose. That is especially true because that point was mentioned here. I'm just gonna let myself tell you that I think that what we have to do first and last thing we do to get around this is to improve and change this system. It has to be fast, and I hope the Minister has it as one of its first cases, and I couldn't hear better than it was yesterday.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u125	A respectable president. I wanted to ask you what. The chairman of a mental - health committee because there is a considerable discussion of them in the budget, which is of good quality. I think we all agree that mental health matters, in all the extensive medical discussions that took place during the campaign, were very concerned with the voters of all people, especially with young people. I'm going to ask what I've been asking repeatedly about here in the Senate Hall, which is about the approved subsidies of the psychological services. It is a health project and procedure that is certainly important to the families of the country, young people, and rich people. This subject is not the result of which it is not specifically discussed in the financial bill. I allow myself to put my hope in this because the law has become a reality and because my mental health clearly has a place in the minds of the three governments. I ask if the chairman of a legal committee will support us in the testing of these laws so that this service will be available to the public in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u126	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. This is precisely true in the Treaty, promoting mental - health services for all community groups that focus on young people and young ones, as well as on prevention, not merely trying to deal with the challenges of the ministry. These mental - health personnel have been initiated at clinics, as we know. As yet, I have not been able to humanize all of them, and we certainly need to try to do so. We want our ministry to vary from one to the next. I mean, about the bill as good as any. Of course, a member of the body refers to them as only a legal arrangement, as if to go with certain amounts of money on that assignment. Now it's in the hands of the highest. Whether he intends to stress the increased amount of money for health insurance in order to add this aspect of the ministry. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u127	A respectable president. All groups are spoken of, and especially of young people. I know about my mental health problems, but I also know how the models are on the health care unit. That is why my question is not to them but to the Psychological Service. I know very well that this is mainly in the hands of the highest. A health minister, but I'm asking the chairman of the legal committee's position on this matter. This is not a bill. This is the General Act that gives the minister the authority. It was agreed by the Generals everything. Therefore, I ask about the position of the chairman of the budget board on this particular case, on subsidies of the Psychological Service, and on whether it will bring us into the process of doing this law.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u128	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. Of course, I will continue here as follows to highlight these issues. We'll take this up for discussion and coverage, and we'll go through the sums suggested in the budget bill when a health - care minister comes to see a financial committee and discuss with him how he intends to distribute it. I will not give up in supporting increased psychological or psychological care. Of course, if it is best placed in a way that brings down the private service of psychologists or by any other arrangement, the minister needs to weigh the main factors. I think we need to increase the access of people to this service, and we need to figure out how it will be done best together. I'm sure we have a different vision and a different approach to it. These steps have gone away, and I think we can continue to take further steps in increasing this service even more and more throughout the country. [[The president calls.]] We must not forget that this is not only about access here in the capital area but about all the land and therefore this team has been extremely successful. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u129	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech. There are two things I would like to ask. A senator and a chairman of the legal committee in connection with the senator's speech. First, it is the structure of transportation, especially with emphasis on what we call in our daily city line. V.E.G. In his speech yesterday, the prime minister brought this up. I'd like to ask in relation to the budget bill, as if it were possible for the chairman of a financial committee to predict that the matter will develop in this regard, if there will be any transformation of government property to finance it, e.g., that has been discussed and mentioned. of the highest. Prime Minister, I think, whether the cooperation will be there in the key role or whether this will be a direct contribution from the state fund as it has been. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u130	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. It is true that in the Treaty and in the source bill it is expected to sell Iceland banking. It is also stated in the text of the bill that it will be helpful to use this funds for building wood, which is, in fact, to make use of it. Said. The fact that a certain amount of money will be marked by the city line is not something we are doing. Rather, it simply increases government funds to invest and increase our ability to invest. The amount of money expected by selling Iceland Bank - that is not going to slow down the project or anything like that, not necessarily. This project involves not only infrastructure but also internal development, and we just apply it to a specific process of transport.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u131	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. In the second answer, I'd like to ask you a question. Chairman of the budget board of 1,203 billion. Looking to the past few years, he has grown considerably. Hv. In his speech, a senator mentioned that an actual increase in expenses was about one quarter since 2017, if I reached that number correctly. I'd like to ask the question in this context. Chairman of the budget board where the senator prefers to make room for maintenance, moving into the work that lies ahead of the legal committee. Now the bill has been sent out for review, so you cannot help measuring it as if the majority of the people have come to the finish line. That's why I'd like to ask him why. The chairman of a financial committee is at the top of the budget, and in what direction members of the board and government positions should seek ways to reduce the total government fees. It just can't be that there is no table for anything in a 1,200 billion budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u132	The president's apologies for the clock, it always falls for two minutes, needs to be corrected by hand each time. However, members of Congress should know that there is one minute to answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u133	Mr. President. I'm just gonna agree that there's always a better way to do it, so to speak, in every business, in particular the government. The goals we are putting on an enormous amount of emphasis include: through the many digital services of the government that I believe will result in a decrease in the financial cost of the state. It may take some time, but I think even. In some of these, costs are reduced, not necessarily by screwing down some institutions in one piece or another. I don't think that's a good idea. But I think we can and we have, that's absolutely right, always going through what we can do better. I think it depends primarily on attending the 21st century and on the fourth industrial revolution. Walking in that direction can lead to self-resistance, i.e. that the government's expenses will be reduced in time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u134	Mr. President. V.E.G. The minister of finance, chairman of the Independence Party, has now presented new budgets, and as with the entire term, the presentation seems to be most likely to go out on top of it. Ministers boast of the magnitude of the expansion, how much more the state is paying for. A lot of listings, tops. In fact, a minister in his background talked about the fact that the State is now paying more than last year for this and more than last year for the rest. This is the chairman of the Independence Party who introduces budgets that seem to be the key step in raising government spending. No doubt this is the result of the way this government is composed of groups of former members of the right and left and at the center of the political scale, but all have changed and have become more like one another. However, in order to get this administrative work started, it was likely necessary to take steps that would not be too political. The financial products of the last government took into account, and now with a new government or a renewed government, it seems to continue on the same path. In order to be a member of the government and to divide the Ministers and Projects, it is simply best that spending should be so that all are allowed to put something in their own special pet projects rather than to display political, political, or long - term vision or long - term policy. Money from the budget gets some expenses, and then it comes to the highest level. Ministers and boast of how much more this year he spends than the previous year. V.E.G. In fact, a minister may admit that in his speech he mentioned that it would not really work this way. There would be an ever - increasing increase in government funds. All right. Right by the highest. Minister. But in view of the highest. For a decade, you may wonder why this has been so long. True, it can be the highest. It is to be noted that in the years 20136/2016, he was conservative, sometimes even conservative in terms of investments in areas that you thought could make more money for the future. But the minister was conservative, it was policy, and it could be difficult at the time to be conservative. But with a changed government, and a different one, and so on, the Ministry of finance seems to be in charge of the highest level. Minister, on the increasing scale, accept that the way to maintain control is simply to increase your expenses. Thus, there are a number of examples in this financial bill, which, in fact, seem to be rooted in the left movement, at least in the form of a green offer, although I have to reiterate what I came into at first, that you see less and less differences between those groups. It is as if the cooperation, but perhaps the spirit of the times, causes them to gradually become one group. One of the things that attract special attention is the spending on climate. It enlightened the highest. A minister to us that our expenses had increased substantially and would continue to grow considerably. It would be a special goal, a special objective, for this government to continue to increase expenses. It is interesting to hear from the Self - Opportunities Minister of finance that there is a special goal for expenses to continue to increase. The goal, according to the highest. Minister, updating expenses for at least A billion a year will reach a total of about 10 billion, just the increase compared to what was started at the end of the season. And where will this end if the same government continues in the next elected period? Since the goal is simply to increase the cost, where should this end? The objective is not to produce certain results, at least not to say the results that have been explained, let alone how to achieve them. Your objective is to increase your expenses. This will introduce the highest level. Secretary of finance, chairman of the Independence Party, for the council now. There is a special goal in this government to raise expenses. But why do you want to introduce it to the highest level? Is this the case with a minister? This is because this category, climate, perhaps the environment, such as the left movement, they generally define, is primarily focused on superior appearance, appearance, packaging, as we see over and over in the policy of this government, now the last in the Treaty to which it is expected to include, and quite unbelievable that it did not attract more attention than it shows, that climate advice receives and expands, increased political power, higher power, higher power over politicians. The government suggests that this counsel, appointed by prospective experts, should, in her view, progressively increase power over the government of the country and over its elected representatives. Maybe this shouldn't surprise you, because it's all system control. The system administration established at the time when three different categories, at least historically, met together to replace confidentiality, to share specific advantages from different recruitments, and to avoid politics in other ways than what the system would guide them. And here we have a budget bill that's being done in the system, which the government is forming just a few days before being recommended for the budget bill. It was obvious that this budget was not composed by the government, which, for some reason, took a very long time writing a 60 - page government contract and switching contracts. It was a bill from the system, but it's quite convenient for this government. But when it lacks political vision, especially in this case, the vision shows that it needs to be handled well with financial resources and savings and to have some quality requirements in terms of spending money, we'll get a budget such as this, as many of the expenses that attract most attention are unnecessary and in some cases even to damage. Many I said, not all, of course not all. V.E.G. Ministers boast that they are still increasing their donations to health as if it were a special goal to increase their expenses. But it is less to learn how this expenditure is new, which has been completely lacking in this government for the entire last term, and it seems to continue right now. There's no quality control. No one is wondering what money can buy, how it works best for the community. It's all about being proud of your extra expenses. In many cases, though, the increase in expenses is even to the loss. I'm just going to mention here to begin with one small example, a new constitution, which the government intends to protect under these financial laws, hundreds of millions in building behind the old Councilhouse, which has worked very well since the first Minister, although in a position in a second residence in the late 20th century. But now the government is going to increase funding for the Ministry of Presidency to build this house, which is for want, to build a concrete and glass box, outside the old board of directors. But this probably should not surprise us. We've seen signs of what was going on during the last term, and we've seen signs of the expansion of the Ministry of Presidency, especially, and after its head, the members dance. Never before in the history of the Council, in the history of Icelandic politics, there has been an increase in the budget for the Ministry of Presidency that was as high and as fast as today. And I think it may be safe to say that the number of employees in this department has never been as great as it is now. Now, for all this growth of workers to continue the same government, it must have to add another floor to take on even more staff, continue evolution as it did during the last term. It lacks all the coverage of the new budget, whether it is a reasonable investment to the future for society or even for damage. Of course, one of the most clear examples in this financial bill is the government's plan to contribute enormously to finance the Commission's campaign in Reykjavík, its urban and transport contract. This, despite the fact that long ago, the city was not going to live up to its end. I think at least two presidents of the Council of Organization of the Society of Reykjavík publicly declared that they were not going to provide the means to provide the ransom, so to speak, for the city line, namely. Improvements at several corners in the capital area In Reykjavík, at least Have people turned on the bulb in terms of communication with the government, realizing that no matter what the city does with the government, it's just gonna pay and she's gonna let herself have it? Given these budgets, it seems to be the right thing to do. We already know this, and we note two presidents of the Governing Body in Reykjavík that the city is not going to live up to what the last government in the future felt was buying donations to the city line. But the government just pays on it. That's because it's a system law. This is not political law. These are funding based on what the system produces and enables the board of directors to continue working as members of its minister, even if it costs funding the campaign number one of the Union in Reykjavík. It will be interesting to observe the next election in Reykjavíkurburg, the mayor's election, when the Conspiracy and the current mayor can enter a campaign and say: "Look who's the best to vote. We're in control of all of this. It is up to us to deal with the state, whether in the case of a city line, in general transportation improvements, in the area of Reykjavík, which was mixed into one of these meeting laws that the government was fooled to do, or another of the agreements between the state and the city. But we can see by the law that the government is no closer to the cost of all of this. She's just gonna pay, keep paying. The total cost of the city line is not yet available, much less that every person has an idea of how much it will cost to fire it. However, the government continues to pursue the yellow root and will pay, even making the State more or less a debt for decades. In fact, a minister at times said that this will be taken care of each year in making financial contributions, evaluating the cost and whether to intervene. Does anyone know that this government would intervene and stop the project once it was started? I don't think that's going to fall into the mind of any person, a government that even sends the budget to comment before the council has discussed it. As I had within the past, though, there could be a little bit of fear at the highest. Minister, I hope that he is sincere, in the interest of the currency. V.E.G. In his discourse, foreword, the minister said with the permission of a president: "A tax crop has to be something more moderate than it has been in recent years. " Here the minister of finance, who first took up a high office for a decade, now gives a financial bill that is expected to reach 200 billion dollars. tilted at the same time as expected to increase or to the highest level. A minister put it in his speech: Now it is time for production power in the economy. Nevertheless, the highest is returned. While dealing with the epidemic and the state were sharing a lot of money to deal with it, a minister of budgeting for another hundred billion dollars after the crisis. Right now, like the highest. Minister has put it, the production power in the economy returns a new budget with a tremendous angle. Why? Yes, because the government thinks it can get away with it and it's more comfortable, to have everyone good, to spend most of the money, no matter what the worst warnings. Ministers on the need to be moderater than he has been in the past few years. But that is a later problem. I don't know if there's a problem for the next government, but it was at least To hear at the highest. Minister in the talk that there was something to figure out later, perhaps. When the Independence Party has been taking over the Ministry of finance for a few more years. V.E.G. A minister also said that we would need to consider how we use the money so that we can get the most out of today's situation. Wrote these budgets in today's situation at the height of the day. A minister himself says that at the same time, could the production power in the economy be at the same time? I guess it's not time to figure it out. That's a second matter too. It is expected that there will be a number of spendings, and we have seen that in recent years. But the numbers that appear in this budget bill, and in this regard are quite striking. In part, a minister went over. There are still many new Kingdom workers in the last terms and new institutions that seem to be endless. V.E.G. Ministers have not been able to answer that question, perhaps assume many new institutions during this ideal period, but that is at least It is clear that in view of the proclamations of others, there will be a number of them. Minister. I can't help but wonder if a nice former United States senator, Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson, should not be given some small commendation from the government for having so much contributed, to some extent, their approach to the government. The Senator Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson came up here over and over again and spoke constantly for the need to increase the number of government employees and the expected government institutions. V.E.G. The financial minister did not agree with this, but it seems now that he has seen the light, and I think it is right in view of how tireless Ágúst Ólafur Augustus Ágústsson was to point out this, although I did not agree with him, that he will receive a little credit, the excuse, Mr. President, for his part in this financial bill. And maybe the same can be said of the United States in general and of other classes. What may not be least attention, or surprise, let us say, but at the same time illustrate the nature of this bill are the so - called tax grants. Now I have to admit to the highest. President I hadn't noticed this until then. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason mentioned this in a discussion of prime minister's policy. But this is one of the most amazing things I've seen on a budget bill and unfortunately, it's not. Perhaps not sadly, it may be nice to get such a vivid term, to illustrate the approach of this government to taxation and the tax system. These so - called tax strengths are expected to exceed about 3.1% of GDP. It also shows that about half of the tax strengths appear in the form of the difference between the higher and lower levels of taxation. In other words, almost in the same way as described in the budget bill, it is the attitude of this government that the State really has all the money people earn. It's just a matter of how much proportion of people earn, whether they work hard or not, how much less, how much money the person's income should return as a gift or a taxpayer to the state. If you're not paying the highest tax. The minister of finance or the Ministry of finance could imagine that they would receive strength from the State. You should have kept more than we could have taken from you. This illustrates the mental attitude on which the budget is based and has been doing too long. Another fundamental problem with the way a budget is done, in addition to this view, that all income is really owned by the state until it receives a discount or a scholarship, a tax allowance, is how the financial bill usually does not take on the overall picture or the long - term effects of what is being done. This is almost exclusively considered to be a calculated effect for the next 12 months. Of course, the government does plan for financial matters, but there is no overall picture on expenses or savings. What do we get for the money? What do we get for the long - term money? What does the savings mean? What will the savings left in the public, and how much of it comes back to the State? While neither the overall picture nor the long - term financial effects are viewed by humans, they do not make the right decisions because they do not have the bigger picture. This is a problem with a budget that has not been solved by a new government law, in fact, on the contrary, because the effects of government law have primarily been the possession of decision-making from elected representatives to which voters can influence and punish or award their actions to the government. And, as we can see in this bill, the government is improving frequently with a tremendous rise in government workers after the last term and plans for new government institutions. So that the political influence, the effect of what the current members of the administrations said before elections, is very limited. But no doubt people, in the past, will accept it only well to be in government, to be in more part, without any political policy or vision being in the process. The actual increase in government spending, according to the highest rate. Secretary of finance, from 2017 onward, is about a quarter. The real increase. How much money the State's expenses have increased since its height. Ministers took over as secretary of finance? It would be interesting to hear that, but the increase is at least A lot. And now it's all added. We see in the Constitution of the government a number of plans that seem completely out of place for the estimated cost of next year's additional financial expenses. Let me just give you two examples. The government intends to continue with its previous plans to have the most open policy, perhaps the most open European policy, in refugee affairs. Open, not in the sense that it is positive, but in the sense that people are simply not trying to control matters. No matter how people arrive in the country. It's going against what the other North countries are doing, trying to steer people into the security system, accept the greeting. As a result, refugees will be directed into passing the secure legal system and in this way they will arrive in Iceland because they receive the same service, same support, no matter how they come. Where does it appear in the budget bill? How much will this cost? Nowhere. What about a plan that has been introduced to the Government's Constitution on the rights of drugs, which I think people will try to use in hearsay by crime? We had a good discussion of that subject, and there were some good reports and important specialists in this field, from doctors, from police, and others. If they're going into this course, it's gonna cost. Of course, the primary cost is that drug - dealing gangs will be freer, and more will be exposed to the danger of getting involved in drug abuse. It's fatal, but it's going to cost the community money too. It is not expected in the budget, either the increased cost of dealing with the increased problems or other costs that will result from increasing drug freedom. Then, of course, there are a number of unnamed cases that I would have liked to review here in this talk, including all the list of models. It seems to answer the government's answer to the budget bill, preferably in order to keep the list of waiting better, not necessarily spending it, but having a better perspective on the waiting list. That is, as it may be, I suppose, and I give us the opportunity to discuss these matters here at the council further. I see, Mr. President, that my time is running out, but I have quite a few more discussions about these budgets and ask a respectable president to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u135	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator very much for his speech. This talk contained many fine things, even though I may not necessarily agree with all that he said, perhaps especially with the transportation, the city line, and the climate in his speech. But there was a number of interesting things to be found there. Hv. A senator served as prime minister for some time, and of course, now we appreciate this government by means of the budget and policy presented and in which all of it is a major violation of the whole board of directors. Advertising is constantly being carried out, creating a new Ministry. It's been doing this, that you feel, in some ways a little less difficult. At least I'll be at least to respect the government as a pity that I have not heard any further statements on many of the below. But what you think about, and that's why it would be nice to hear from what happened. A senator, then, could impart his experience as a former prime minister, is: Does he trust to evaluate some kind of exercise and application in the Board of Directors, where a new Ministry is prepared, to be assigned, the school language cut down and transferred between counseling? As can be said of cultural issues, so has other causes. A senator is concerned that this could mean that the Board of Directors and Advisor's work will become less difficult, that channels will be prolonged, that the processes and decisions will be heavier, and that, as a result, because we are discussing the budget, we may be hiding some additional cost that we may not be able to display in detail in any number that is available in these financial laws?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u136	Madam President. This is the first time I have a place to say. Although we have spoken and worked together before, a member of the council from the platform. So I want to take this opportunity and wish you what it is. Congratulations to a senator. But he started by asking some very demanding questions. I've wondered about this from the fact that I saw the first date that a new government labor division, though still lack information, and haven't quite quite figured out how a project will be divided, since it seems to be very vague. In some areas, even ships and docks seem to have been affected by tasks. In general, there are certain cases in my mind that may require this by changing circumstances, simply trying to improve the system of control. But this government may have to thank former prime minister, Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, for the opportunity to jump up at will, for it was the one responsible for such permission. If I recall correctly, then there was no particular interest in this and there are a number of talks and what some would probably call a filamentist because this releaser, as I think it was then, was criticized. However, I do not reduce the fact that there can certainly be grounds for reassigning and reorganizing the Ministry so that they work better. But what the government has presented in this regard does not fall to my knowledge that, let the Ministry work better, let alone people get a clearer view - people, businesses, organizations, government employees - where the responsibility really lies. And that can be dangerous.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u137	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answers. I had no intention of putting him against a wall and having some disunition here. This was now more to get a general sense of former prime minister's feelings about what we are discussing here and, of course, will be underneath when the country is being directed for the next four years. Only then, because of what. A senator spoke a little about the climate and the environment in his speech here, I'd like to know if he could possibly have his first impression on how he feels about the possibility of putting together in one climate and environment department, and thus mixing the energy issues, because I know he has strong opinions on all these matters, and while many have been criticized by the fact that they have all been brought together in the new Ministry. It would be interesting to hear what you hear. That's for the senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u138	Madam President. If I start with just a previous answer, I forgot to mention that what I think most of these characteristics are different job names that seem to aim to create a package that suits the timer and that is simply forgotten to consider the contents. But there's a passage in the politics of this government and hence informative light. With regard to climate and energy, I have to admit, Mrs. President, despite all I said in the past, that in Iceland there is not necessarily a problem between energy, climate and environment being together in the Ministry, because what is our main contribution to climate change on a global and environmental issues? It's using renewable energy. I just hope that the new minister of the jury will approach in such a way that it is really the duty of us Iceland to use the environmental energy we have in this country to produce environmental products.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u139	Madam President. Hv. A senator mentioned that he might be fully involved in climate issues in this financial bill. I'm going to disagree with him basically because there is a lot to be done, much more to that matter. The fight against climate change is not merely a result of success but only a better society and a better world. But I cut to the ear. A senator spoke of one ten billion that would be raised at the end of the period. I think this is where it's at. At the top of the court, there was a misapprehension. A minister in the prehistoric debate because the government has become so high that it makes things look better that they even get themselves involved in the Internet. One billion increase in the next ten years was introduced in the last financial programme and was even installed that fine table showing that, toward the end of the financial programme, the contributions are falling. This billion is 1 billion a year, or as the bill puts it: 10 billion dollars in total. ..in the season in the course of the lexicon. However, what the minister said in his entropy speech was: ◯... a total of about 10 billion annually at the end of the period, to be sure. I think the spoken word was simply wrong, unfortunately. It would be great if there was an increase in this amount of money, but I don't think so. But I wondered, " Is this not exactly a sign of the overemphasis on a government bandage, perhaps not necessarily the government of the great work, but to blow out a task in words that makes them look better? ' It may not be the most honest statement, but it's getting a little bad when the Ministers themselves can't even read out of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u140	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this comment. You're right. A senator says, I noticed this from the minister's talk earlier. However, I note that this billion - dollar increase, according to my background, is not starting at zero point and going to the first billion next year. In other words, the amount of money that is substantial is rising and should be raised. Talk-and-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go? Sure. I agree with that, too. A senator because we don't know what's going to happen. What has been achieved so far? Yeah, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, No doubt some of these are used or currently used to destroy the agricultural land that has been new in recent decades and even centuries in Iceland by shoveling into a ditch with a completely vague effect, which can be harmful. That's because this group of paintings, quite specifically--and I know that I and what. A senator strongly disagrees about the approach of this class - more than other pack - by showing that he is putting so and so much money on something rather than the results and actual measurements of what results next from government action. Therefore, we look forward to the development of the government's central approach on climate issues increasing expenses. What are the benefits of these expenses? Maybe shoveling in a ditch. But the key point is to increase the expenses so that we can arrive at some international conferences and say: We have increased the expenses for this group and so many percent so that we are doing well.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u141	Madam President. Yeah, I think me and what. A senator may not agree on climate goals because I view the goal of improving expenses as a means of preventing climate change and the effects that have already become apparent and also cost money. This amount will rise to the future, and although we would make five times as many donations to climate today, that coin would always return in a better community as well as in preventing animals and costly disasters that could kill lives. But all right, I wasn't going to talk about it in my second answer. I was going to talk about something else. A senator turned aside from the criminal abuse of drugs. I think it's got a little bit of a twist on its head. To view someone with an addiction as a criminal rather than a patient who should help is enormously costly. It slows down and stops these people from healing. It'll put it in the courtroom system. It makes criminals, causing misery, rather than defending a coin from putting their arms around them and helping them out of sickness. So I think that there are some vague ideas about the enormous cost of substance delinquency merely based on some fundamental understanding of the case, since society will save not just money but without disaster. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u142	Madam President. Government expenditure, the way taxpayers are treated, is always a matter of priorities. In terms of climate, I feel that priorities have not been designed to achieve the most results. We have achieved our success, our community, and other communities throughout the ages, including the need to say, by using fossil fuels that have produced tremendous success, improved well - being, improved ideals, improved health to people around the world. And because of what? In the past century, a senator mentioned the number of deaths caused by climate change that have decreased by 99% despite an enormous increase in humanity. Now I've been spending too much time on it, so I'm only gonna answer very short on the legal process of drugs. I am, of course, of that opinion, like cot. A senator, that he not help those who become involved with addiction. It's been the case in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] Not many people are sentenced to prison for low doses of drugs, but we need tools to deal with the segregators, those distributing it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u143	I'd like to remind the senators of the importance of respecting the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u144	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. I immediately listened to him when he started talking about this great, heavy emphasis on the bill's spending side. There's not much here yet, at least at this point, talk about the income side e.g. and I have to admit that I'm a lot worried about her, for of course the side of income is the key to how far you can go at expenses. I wanted to ask you what. For the sake of his words about the booth: I was reminded when I listened to the talk that the convention asked for committees created during the season. Then it was found that from November 2017, when this government, or last one, was formed, and until March 2020, 248 new committees were formed in addition to those already active. There are, for example. Thirty-seven members of the Ministry of Presidency alone, and they are expected to become more and more since that elected period. Of course, I'm not going to argue that all committee work is unnecessary, that I was speaking to members of the Senate earlier today. But I would be interested in hearing the point. A senator as to this, whether he thinks this is a concern, whether ministers are out of control in this commission, as I would like to allow myself to call it, because when you look at the New Government Convention, you can say that there's a pretty strong evidence that there are other committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u145	Madam President. I think this is a very important inquiry from what? A senator gives me an opportunity to add just what I had discussed in my talk. Even though I did. A senator may not agree completely in all matters, but we both worry about the great expansion that has marked this government. When I tell this government, I mean the first, too, i.e. The government of the last terms, since it seems to have become virtually out of control. And because of what? A senator specifically mentioned the Ministry of Presidency and 37 referred to it as a very good example of emphasis, or perhaps I should rather say the ways in which this government has gone, because as I mentioned earlier, after its head dances its limbs, and the expansions, the number of employees, the increase of committees, such as crack. A senator points to, as far as I'm next, never has there been anything like what was during the last term. Then, naturally, other ministers and other agencies see this example and do the same. You're right. One senator says, there is a trend toward continuing growth during this terms, not just committees, but the new establishments as well. Then you wonder, " Why is it like this? ' I think it must be because the way this government is put together as a government class that come from different directions and didn't want to deal with politics, simply wanted the system to be controlled and any minister, who was so lucky to get the Minister, to create a new project for himself or someone else to settle on these committees. It is the oil in the workings of this government, to create a new role for the Ministers and for the others and those who could then be included in all these committees and institutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u146	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is eager to know the answer. I agree with him that we disagree on many matters, but in this regard we can use our hands. I think it tells all a certain story about work ethic, engineering, and the vision of this government that it is a fixed manifestation of little and no ideologies, of mass production committees. I'm worried it'll continue in this terms. Of course, it is not that all who are on government committees receive public pay for it or that all committees are unnecessary, of course, far away. Of course, it is also with a Kingdom worker who joins in another group or group of members that have another responsibility to wait, including the cost. I'm worried about that in the context of the changes now being proposed, where the Council is actually just thrown up and then we'll see how the puzzles fall on the floor, what it's gonna mean for lost hours in the board.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u147	Madam President. I can't help but say what I have to eat. A senator's reaction to this formation is expected or as a result of throwing the puzzles into the air, as quickly as possible. A senator expressed it. If it's part of a plan, part of a plan to do something better, it can be all right if it's a change in shape and some suggestions. But throwing everything in the air just to see where things land could not be successful. I think this is a concern. I agree with that. A senator, and we all see the signs. We'll see them in the Government Constitution, we'll see them on the budget bill, even on the top of a policy debate. Prime Minister, this is what the government will do; spend money and create new committees, new roles, new tasks in order simply to remain.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u148	Madam President. We'll talk here in 1st. Give me a budget bill for next year. I'd like to start off working on that bill in the beginning, as it is clear to everyone. Is that a fault to me, or is that a challenge to me? Yes, in itself, I find it a real challenge, but I also want to review that in all the main points, this financial bill is followed by the financial program discussed, and it is concluded here at our council and made clear in the text of the available budgets where the budget is removed from the budget and where these spendings and where these changes are most important. So, in a somewhat different way than when we arrived here five years ago, just on apace, with those councils that had not settled on the majority government, and the council was placed in a position to set up budgets for the next year and to meet the challenge successfully. I'm just going to review this at the beginning of my speech in view of the discussion that has taken place here earlier today. Exactly because we have had the work done in recent years, with the laws on government finance, discussing financial programs in spring - since all members of the council are careful about the objective and policy put forward - the council is not quite as cold to discuss this financial bill as it might have done with the old arrangement where the figures would be appearing to many for the first time. I'd also like to review, sir, a respectable president, that last year the council discussed five financial products, and this is a very special time. That's why I want to say, I really think this budget is a great witness that the council and the government did not fail in the condition of our society. We have managed to maneuver matters in a way that makes the response to government funds have been replaced by society, and the resistance has become powerful and powerful. V.E.G. The minister of finance was very well aware of it, in the discussions of prime policy last night, how we appeared to this strong private sector, this strong private enterprise in the community, and how it created the resistance which we're building on here today - by using state funds to keep our community safe, to increase our investment, to face the situation with automatic swings, and to resort to increased unemployment. The situation today is simply that unemployment has been reduced, money costs have been spent, and the economy has become a source of strength. I am concerned that it is a serious matter to have over 170 billion angles in budgets and so on, depending on what they look like after the Senate treatment, hopefully after a few weeks. However, it is quite different from what we looked forward to a few months ago, and it is quite different from what we predicted a few months ago. I think there's good reason to discuss it, too, when we discuss this financial bill, how we've taken it, how we've reacted, and how we've achieved it. I find the results completely acceptable and good to review the scenarios drawn here in discussions about financial schemes during the past spring, even the one thought to be crazy and optimistic, is somewhere far from the conclusion, in that the situation is much better. We were criticized here at the spring Parliament not to organise the financial agenda for the financial support that was needed in the coming years of publication. Our answer was really very simple: We did not intend to expand it and the contraction that we thought would be needed to achieve financial goals, debts and expenses, because we were going to grow out of the condition we were in. The financial bill primarily reflects the lack of loose air response in this way because we are growing out of this crisis. We can then have all the worldly opinions, and naturally we should have many opinions, how we have increased expenses in recent years, and on page 6. 127 of the budget bill makes clear how we have increased expenses in recent years to different issues, and that increase is significant. But to cover these extra expenses, a strong job life and a powerful economy are needed, and that is, primarily, what we need to be careful about when we discuss financial policies for the next few years, etc., because the role of the government in economic and financial policies in this country is a fundamental factor we must not lose sight of. Now, the time has come for us to take on government responsibilities in support of money policy. I mentioned earlier the decrease in unemployment and the level of money. Increasing financial power is needed because it is incredibly quick to lose all those it has received by showing irreprehensibility in government matters and by the way we keep the money in the state's budget. This is what I wanted at the beginning of the budget, only to relate which of us is the role that will be involved in the next few weeks to discuss the financial bill, when it will be referred to clearly. The Gaming Committee, the role we play there. The economy has to continue to grow, and the economy has to continue to grow. The projections for this bill describe the period of 2021/226 in which land production will increase by 20%. It is of utmost importance that it remains because it primarily depends on our ability to maintain the work and expenses we have spent on in recent years, to add to innovation and technology, to research, to our health, to transport, and so on. One of the main economic initiatives involved in one of the five budget proposals we discussed last year was increased transport and research funds and increased education spending, we were investing in money for a long time, and because of our long-term investments, including the lack of investments. In the interior, we prepare for future prosperity. If we have the wisdom to use the financial resources in such a way that we are maintaining the level of investment expected in the budget, we are building a more solid foundation for long - term economic congestion. Of course, that will be an assignment. The budget committees refer to the figures, the exchange of funds, the aims of projects, the goals of spending, as well as the better use and more long - term tasks needed to reconsider our thinking, whether there are reasons to follow them or whether their time is over or whether we need to put our arms around them in any other way. It's a constant subject that never ends. In this 1st. We hold on to a budget bill that I think is primarily a testimony to our having a powerful and solid budget of the state at the beginning of a sudden setback. It is vital, then, that we keep the budget in such a way that it will soon become strong again. In all the discussions about vaccines in our society, it may be appropriate to put the discussion into context, but it is the best vaccine that public finance and economic government in Iceland can have a longer time when government funds can get into their strong position, for that is the basis for us to be prepared for what is sure will happen but will not be. There is also the basis for running responsible money policy that ensures attendance in our society, an increased application to improved biographies in our country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u149	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. There's been a few talks in here earlier today, I don't know if. A senator has had the opportunity to monitor all of them, but in any case I think it is safe to say that especially the highest. Ministers, some of them, since the financial program was adopted here last spring, into the campaign and until the election, spoke in a very modest way about the budget adopted here last spring. I especially remember to the highest. The current superintendent, chairman of the Future Party, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, went about so far as to throw the bag into the trash at a certain time between the end of the council and until the election, I'll just look up the exact date. I'd like to know what it is. A senator has concluded whether it has real influence now that ministers have arranged their words in such a way that the current financial program has been relatively weightless.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u150	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. Well, it's a little out of control. I didn't exactly watch everything as high as I can. The secretary of transportation, secretary of the wood, chairman of the forward party, said in the campaign. But the main question is, Do certain Ministers object respect for the budget adopted by spring? I'm not going to be a judge in that matter, but it's at least the document that the then government and the present state of Congress came together and was our guide for a long time. It brings back to mind, when we're walking, in all categories, in campaign campaigns, what demand we have for a campaign campaign based on the state's budget and economic policies. On the other hand, it is interesting to talk about which I don't think it's possible to take back time, whether we should do as some nations have done, which have adopted national legislation as we have on public finance, that they need in some way to evaluate their campaign policy system from levels of sustainable stability.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u151	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, first the joy will be taken out of the campaign, if that is what needs to be discussed. I appreciate the answer. Now was the time. A deputy vice president of the legal committee for the entire last term, and if I had just noticed a bit of what it was. So a senator continues his office. In terms of transport cooperation, PPP, statistics have been discussed. I'd like to ask you what. A senator how he sees these matters come forward now. There were approved co-work laws where six projects were given separately during the past term, but still a little delayed, and perhaps the main news of the problem of implementation and of pushing matters forward. I wondered, " Is this something that I could get information about the majority parties?'For this is very interesting to consider how a project level will be introduced in the next few years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u152	Madam President. In celebration of this later, it's against who. paritaprevir Bergþór son of Ólason is the exact task of the entire budget board calling for a report to be given. A senator refers to a cooperation project, where it stands, how their funding is and what will be expected progress speed and influence the investment level in the country. There's a small explanation in the budget how this weighs in there. But this is, a respectable president, exactly one of the tasks that took place. The budget and the transport board must be concerned about these budgets and then in the financial programme to be submitted in the spring. Where is the plan? How are they offered? How do they aim ahead? It is beyond the granting of the European Treaty the maintenance that the Parliament is intended to provide in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u153	A respectable president. A powerful and solid treasure and the power of money. So, what is our role here? At the same time as this is said here in the symposium, it appears that not just hundreds but even 1,000 people need food assistance now before Christmas. If government funds are so strong and stable, why on earth do they have to go in rows to wait for food? Why on earth are there people out there who can't even afford to take their medication out? Isn't it really our job here to make sure this is not the case? Why are these matters not addressed and resolved?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u154	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson for his counter-sponsored response. I'm going, as I've said before, in answer to what. A senator discussing public financial matters, whether financial or financial matters, just to say that I have heard and am aware of any concerns. A senator of the status of these people, and he certainly has them too. Why, though, are we not able to handle this assignment? What causes us to remain in that position? A senator's description? On the other hand, I'd like to say, and that's what I was trying to draw out in my speech, because we're here discussing the speech I just gave: first of all, with a strong fund of state, we have the opportunity to do this, but we have to get into this. I just agree with what. A senator on that subject cannot wait much longer. The way we do it, I'm not ready to get rid of it. A senator now.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u155	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. This has been known for four years. We know where the disease lies. It's in an evil system, but we don't do anything about it, we talk and we talk, but we don't do anything about it. We are also talking about power of riches. Already, the pay card has increased by 7%, and commercial power was said to be 2.9%, but by the end of the year older citizens and poorer 3.6% and the inflation is already in place so that there is no money in these individuals, they have no power to buy. Now it's time to set 5.6%. 1% was so awesome, it was declared out here as if it were a divine gift. But as I've pointed out: While we put 1% into this system, we're not returning anything to these people, 2500 bucks. ............................ By taxes or by 0K. CYP3A4 and CYP3A4 We're supposed to stop this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u156	Madam President. Can we just say it like that? A senator in his second stand? Don't we have to get closer to the core of this, how many people are there? Because all the measures taken during the last terms, including with action. legislators and changes to financing cables brought here earlier, which also looked forward to the group of people in general. A senator mentioned, I know I have returned a better position. When is the situation good? When has it become acceptable? I'm not going to judge it, but we're going to need a lot more to get a better grip on what this project is. I'm not saying the project doesn't exist or the position of these people doesn't exist. But we can't exactly say that all of this is ruined, and all of this is impossible, because we've made some decisions, hasn't we? Senator. That's what I'd like to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u157	A respectable president. The private sector created the resistance, said what. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson in his speech here and there is a little piece of truth in it. But the private sector had to, in order to create the resistance, tremendous support from the public, support from the public in the form of tax payment in our well - matched funds, very good. I'm glad we could, for that, that's what we're like. to pay our taxes, so that we can grab and rescue those who need it, whether it's personal or people. [[The president calls.]] But the weakness of words. The senator may be this: To think that there is someone who can do this, that the private sector alone can create a resistance. Could it be that there has to be this solid interaction between the private sector and the public sector?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u158	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I can only say what I would like to put my mind around: Because we had here the funding of the taxpayers, because we poured money into the economy to grab people's arms, to grab hands around a business, to grab over government agencies, to grab off public employees, to deal with this sudden financial crisis, we have been leading ourselves faster forward and out of this sudden crisis but we would have stood before us if we hadn't done anything. I have no doubt that because we took these measures, it is worth the effort. But we also need to remember that we need to keep on thinking that the state's funds will get into a strong position as soon as possible to meet unexpected events because we know they will come, we don't know when, and then the government funds must have the tools and tools to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u159	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before an answer. I've been very concerned with my health, and I've watched it very closely and the state that has been there in recent years. I'm a little worried that it looks like it's going to happen. A member of the Independence Party has not yet realized what it really was and is that it saves us in a pandemic like this. Without stopping our health - care providers and health care providers who come to our rescue, we can say goodbye to some form of resistance. If we don't have people who can do all the work and everything they need to do because the medical system can't handle its work, then it's hard to listen to some word about what they're asking for and what to do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u160	Madam President. I have to admit, I just can't figure it out later. I have to respect it for myself. I was in no way minimizing the health - care providers and the health care professionals who played a great part in our community, especially in this epidemic. I refuse that my group of brothers and sisters in that category do not understand the importance of the medical system. That's the answer I want left behind. I don't think that answer is fair; that I'm supposed to have missed the contribution of health care professionals and health care to the major work we've been on for about two years.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u161	A respectable president. In the leading of the last election, the Ministers of this government were in the race for their own financial plan. In fact, in two major parts of The Kingdom Radio, I experienced that they didn't give much to financial programs, said little or nothing in terms of it, it was just a plan for the next five years, and there was an election coming. Now I listened attentively to a talk given. A senator who praised the accident that we had this financial program to build on, and these funds would thus be no different from what was expected there. So I'd like to ask in two, including. Chairman of the party. In one of the election programs, the senator was very clear: Is the plan still to take the restive measures, as mentioned in the financial program, up to 1,9,50 billion a year during this term? I'll save the second question for second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u162	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for her answer. First, I was only making it clear that in this financial discussion, we were supporting the first year of a financial program we discussed here in spring. What political leaders have then said during a campaign campaign does not reflect that they are bound by that election resolution now end up with a new government and a new election season and the words made by politicians for a few days ago must be made in a revised financial program until the next five years. The scheme to handle it, as it were. A senator also asks, I was trying to bring up my talk earlier - because the economy had grown, the need for the support we had discussed here in our spring was almost gone. I think it's the big news, and that's what we were talking about the budget last spring: we're going to grow out of the problem we're facing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u163	A respectable president. What I was simply trying to draw out is to the highest level. Ministers didn't want to know this financial programme before election, but they now refer to it as a post-election convenience and seem to recognize it completely, that it was always the plan and is still the plan. I'll also read it out of this budget bill that there will be a continuing need for invasive measures, at least published on page 24. 90 on the bill that it is wise to reduce the angle of state funds year by year, thus stopping the proportion of land production debt over the years. This must be part of the resurgence that the Ministers did not recognize for elections, and in fact, they were the biggest disgrace that I had to mention them, as if this financial plan were completely on the way out. But another point in the plan that I clearly pointed out was that it would be to cut together when the expenses came to the climate crisis. I'm asking why. Senator: Is my terms still needed to be reduced during my terms?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u164	Madam President. I can't answer that question for a second. A senator asks this in ways other than to refer to the recent government covenant. The Treaty must not be read that the importance of dealing with climate issues is minimized in the minds of those taking the lead in the government and its classes. On the other hand, the question in the spring financial program was, Was the number of donations being reduced to a longer period of time? Yes, it could be made that way, but it was also always impossible to mention that they had been very quick and had been properly ignored, simply because of the economic forecasts and the basics that depend on the long - term work of financial planning. In itself, it is a dull technical debate that does not produce anything, but the battle against the climate is one of the headaches of this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u165	A respectable president. We'll discuss the budget here in 2022. It is the key contribution of every government, which sheds light on its priorities, whether it is in the interests of welfare, transportation, education, health care, and all the basic services that the people in the country depend on, or whether it is in the interest of the interests of the few. I suppose that in this hall there is an arrangement for building wood and service. We'll find out today and the next few days and weeks how well the budget reflects that vision. I'll say the next few days because the budget was published two days ago. It is 366 pages long. If you read fast, it's a joint that needs to be seen in the basement and analyzed. At this point, there is little we can do but discuss ideologies and emphasis. As made clear this morning, the government stresses the pace of the budget. The bill is given a review without a meeting of the budget. I'm new to this job, but I think I know it's a very unusual procedure. You may detect some fear in the government that funding may not be approved on time before a New Year's Eve. It's important, and all government business depends on it. The government is also responsible for the careful coverage of this important document. This is especially needed because we still live under very special circumstances. Today, the second year of the pandemic is deep. Unemployment is still twice as high as it is used to get used to, not as it was before the epidemic, as it was at the highest level. The minister of finance insisted on his witnessing talk. Tourism and the food sector have not recovered, in the health system, is a medical emergency. It is new norm, and there is no more than it was at the beginning of an epidemic. In this light, the government will have to be considered to provide the budget on a very optimistic basis. On the basis of official financial legislation, policy should be based on solid basis and data. Advertising should be guided by established professional and international organisations. 5.3% economy 2022, says Haggis of Iceland. That is one of the most optimistic predictions we have in mind, and it is based on the government, which OECD says 4.7%. The World Cash Fund says 4.1%. There's a difference. I cannot see that the government was to be based on only the most optimistic predictions or the home to overlook international institutions. The lack of success in the Habitat project will be far greater than the 170 billion highest. Secretary of the budget is hoping for it. Growth has now increased dramatically in the past few months. It reduces the provision of homes in the country and increases poverty. Experts have no idea that the budget bill we have here is supporting the Council of Low Growth. Where does it go? With the higher costs of the households, the pressure for raises in the future weather situation becomes more difficult. The government is to help with the struggle, to reduce pressure, and not to increase it. In addition, there has been a significant increase in government expenses since 2017 without the support of government funds. With the same progress, the government is not self-sustaining. It is a development that had begun before a pandemic season struck us, but it may have given the government a kickback from the preconceived instability, scapegoat. While it is a good thing that the government intends to grow out of the problem, there are no financial arrangements to determine how it will manage to increase the economy of others but that it will continue to be driven by tourism and foreign trade. When the balance of the gang is as strong as you can see, there are serious consequences to import and export, and the financial resources of the people of the country. Therefore, we speak in a review of the importance of stability. There is the swing king, a dollar, the head problem. Speaking of infrastructure, the last term's investment is to put the government in trouble and, in fact, neglect all the time from collapse. The estimated need forinvestment investments is about 420 billion dollars. According to a report of the Industrial Association and the Association of Advisor engineers from February 2021 onward, and the Covid implant cannot get close to enough. This is the highways, which are widely broken and dangerous in the region, water and downflow systems, electric and communications. This is the basis for increasing employment in the country and in the economy. One of the most important functions of government is to protect the building and maintenance of valuable structures here. Indiversity is greater than that of the country's ports, and there is a greater need for reforms, e.g. with electricalization denied. For example, I take Njardíkóttur. In addition, there is a great need for the renewal of the maintenance bed and the depth and construction of a shelter. These reforms are essential for the growth of the dock site, enabling the shipyard to build up, for example. continuing with his plans to build a new drought, which would immediately create another hundred jobs and more indirect and secondary jobs. It is much different in areas such as Southnes, one of the worst affected by unemployment crisis in the last two years. In this respect, as usual, the innkeepers are far more expensive to society than the projects. Therefore, the management board is obliged to oversee them to contribute here to continued employment and value development. A respectable president. For me as a new senator, it's very peculiar to stand here and try to understand 1,000 billion dollars. I've been at the council for a week, and I'm supposed to cover these 366 pages, and I have time to make it my own. As to this, I just want to point out that rural society is legally intended to have completed a financial plan at the latest of December 15, the president of the United States has provided a budget for a previous discussion in November. There are laws and no means of escape. For some reason, though, we have made things so that we, the General, can decide to do this at any time but that it has to be done by December 31. I'm also a little surprised to be here interested in getting into a budget committee, but I'm getting the message that five groups sitting in smaller sections here at the Council, about a lot different, have to make themselves good three places and divide them between themselves. That I find the sound of different groups to be heard in this way. But this is how it is, and I'm told it was in a different way during the last term. For some reason, the government and its members and members of Congress have decided to do this in another way. Only back to that budget bill you've got here in the middle of nowhere. Of course, we are glad that there may be a better conclusion in the next year than plans have originally been planned, and that is how it is above its heads, I think, in many of the rural areas of this country, that, fortunately, Covid has not had as serious a result as we initially feared. When I look at the ways in which this recovery is being made, you stop to improve your economic prospects and 52 billion should be fixed, and then there's less need for support for Covid-19. This is likely to involve the specific actions being taken to support the people of the country, to support our business in the country, to keep our society going, and to make people not have to live with them. However, it is determined that at this point these actions are not necessary. I must express my frustration that this is what is being planned for me. I'd like to mention the work that starts here, and all the jobs that have helped to a great deal, and I'd like to commend the government for having taken those actions during the last term that have helped most rural communities very much. A community like me came from, where unemployment went to 25%, needed such action. The southern region all fell into unemployment in 15%, and the food field would not have survived if such measures had not been made. I'm not sure he'll survive if these operations are canceled. It's good to get up here in a pita at the high Council and report that unemployment is beginning to decline and the situation is just becoming more comfortable at the time of collapse, 5%, but it's just the average. Southnes still have 10% unemployment. No community can survive the fact that there is 10% unemployment unless there are any support measures. The discontinuation of these measures will result in the loss of the job by those who are subject to the loss of their jobs because these measures will need to be sought for social assistance from their communities. Of course, it is serious if we are going to move this problem from state to country, and I will oppose it, whether it results or not. It's interesting to look into the text of this document and, in fact, I haven't had much time to do it, I've done it this way. But you get your eyes into things that draw attention and I've, for example, got it. You're watching the budget bill, including on page 24. 89 are being commended for the success of the previous years, which, by permission of the president, says: ▪ These refinements in the course of the past years for firm and targeted payment were the prerequisite for the passing of the wave. Certainly, a government fund had low debt ratios. It's just good. Farmers don't have that low debt ratio. You wonder, " Is it right to give in terms of government income exchanges and partnerships if the State's debt ratio is much lower than the local community? ' I'd like to remind you in this connection that no community has ever been given one piece, or not one piece, but three banks, and I just want to mention there Lindavvo, which we got at the time as a gift, more than hundreds of billions to improve the interests of state funds. Is it not about 500 billion that the state fund was given because so - called sears and vultures, often mentioned, had fled the country? They were good enough to come up, but they were then thrown out of the country and then called vultures. But government funds received an excellent gift, and that certainly has helped. We too, a respectable president, are speaking as well as sacred about the state of the Hospital. I think it's a little special that we're talking about raising money to the hospital. According to the bill, an estimate of 88.7 billion is being made to the Land Hospital, but the account for 2020 reads up to 84 billion, making it not even enough to cover the expenses suffered by the hospital during 2020, what is expected to place in the Land Hospital. In 2016 the land hospital received over 60 billion, and in 2020 84 billion. Although the Landspians have received an additional 24 billion at that time, pay cost increased from 43 billion cubic feet to 61 billion, allowing wages to eat most of what the Landspians have received. Then you ask: " What has been spent in investments at the hospital, reinvigorated of the equipment and the things that are truly needed at any given time? ' Conditions change, technology moves forward, and we can render greater and better service at any given time. I'm happy to see that there's a talk about the improvement in the survival of a pensioner during the terms of the reimbursement of the insurance system, but I don't know how it's going to be done. We heard the president of the older citizen's National Association express his dissatisfaction that only the income market could be talked about, and few older citizens could take advantage of it. We don't see 80-year-olds running into the workforce. He needs his pension, and he can't take advantage of the amount of vacation money they're offering. I also want to review what many have done to talk about today from the greater part. That's the result of a collective agreement. The budget bill says, with the permission of a president: In the coming years, especially in unemployment and inflation, the current situation of collective agreements will be a major factor. There you are, in fact, reading that if pay is raised in the country, or too much, then inflation will increase and if it goes up too much, people will just be dumped. Then, on permission of the president, we say: ▪ The high rates of pay costs over the past decade have greatly contributed to the high rates of remuneration in a global comparison. Indeed, in a percentage of cases, we can agree that Iceland's pay has increased substantially above what happens in controlled countries, such as in other countries. But what I'd like to state here in the Lady Generalis is that the government has not protected the price change by its actions. It's just been so that the limit of the transfer systems, our child reform system, the growth reform system, housing support, has not been followed, and this has meant that the government fund has allowed itself to take a larger portion of the cake. This is what makes the labor movement not believe to be able to work on some Norwegian negotiation model here in Iceland. This social stability must be available for this to be achieved. It doesn't work out just to talk about economic stability and then let the social one just blow. He is subject to something other than our being on guard that we are detracting from people's interests. A respectable president. I wondered, then, as a member of the local government, each of the contributions made by rural funds will be during the year. According to the bill, it should increase by 4.2 billion, but taking into account the price prices of 739 million, the net increase will be 3.5 billion. As you look at these 3.5 billion, you will have an earmark of 1,100 million to finance a so - called successful bill or a set of integration laws on child success. The 2.5 billion that we have left are left in the equation budget. The budget is such that it increases only as government income increases into income tax, which is designed to pay for certain rural services that do not increase or decrease depending on whether rural income increases or decreases. Often, this is a legal service that needs to be performed regardless of what may be done or done. I spoke in my speech yesterday. Social help. There's a lot of things on the table of your unit. The details of the disabled have come to a point where the local communities favor them. I'm sure it's a few billion. I only know from my hometown that we already have a few hundred million people in the minus because of that number of lawsuits, and he needs a reexamination. A respectable president. I think I may be near the end now, but it's a pleasure to stand here and review these things that are so important to us. The political that shows up in the way we expand our money is what controls whether we are fulfilling our obligation to care for the interests of the inhabitants of this country. I heard the last speaker mention the need for power of money, and all of us must be able to join together in doing so. But we are in a position only to see that many have suffered a loss of power in the present - day inflation. The biography agreement - the number 17,000 has been mentioned. If we just watch people with 500,000 bucks. In terms of $17,000, it's only 3.4% in 4.5% of inflation. It has already become a buying effect, and I'm ready to defend myself by means of measures that can help make people feel comfortable in this country and that we protect the infrastructure that needs to be protected in order to be viable in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u166	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the speech. Now I know what to do. A senator is a local manager, a town councilman in the city of Rhinenes, who is well acquainted with the local government and the challenges that Smokeyastown has had to face in the pandemic. Hv. One senator noted that one in four working men had been out of work on the Southnes for a while, and it seems that giving special attention to a community that has to deal with that. I want to ask you why. A member of the council whether he was aware that the government especially looked at the Southnes in an adequate way to meet those challenges. Like what? A senator came into the office where unemployment in Southnes has gone from 25% to 10%, so it has improved a lot. However, it is 10% and it was 10% when Covid struck because the Fall WOW hit the Southnesians very badly. In Southnes, people struggle with long - term noncooperative activities. Long-term lack of work is accompanied by adverse events which are extremely difficult, social, and economic. So, first of all, I want to ask who. A senator whether he has noticed or felt that the government has specifically directed its attention to this problem in Southnes and if he sees any evidence of an increased support coming to this area on the financial bill we are discussing here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u167	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir A new Oddný Harðardóttir for her answer. Yeah, I've been doing the will of a very advanced government to examine the Southnes as a growing area. Work had started, and this may not only be the Southnes but also the growing areas in general, such as the annual area, to examine them specifically, and this work was started before the Covid struck. Smokeytown, in its own time, made a report on the funds that come from the state to Southnesia, and it became clear that they were far less than we had the right to do. As a result, this work was done. The committee then turned into a Covid committee and some sort of cliff board. I hope she goes back to work with her Southnes as a growing area, for this is a real challenge for growing areas. There is a large transfer of people who need a variety of services, extensive infrastructure that needs to take place, and rural areas in areas of growth are struggling to carry out their duties in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u168	Madam President. In fact, I know the committee instituted, which led to a Senate resolution that I had taken in order to submit and was approved here at the General Assembly. I was referring, not to areas of growth above my head, but to conditions that result from heavy unemployment. This, in turn, will be added to the question. A senator here noted that the increase will be great in Southnes, and the government's service will not grow in the same proportion. That was the situation when the pandemic brought on us with all the problems. So I've had the impression that the government and the government have not been sufficiently looking at this situation. [[The president calls.]] It's social, health and economic issues, but especially the economy of households - but people have struggled with the inability to get jobs to improve their positions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u169	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for such speculation. Of course, we've been living in it for a long time because of a relatively monotonous job in the area, with unemployment being maintained for a long time. There's a lot of fluctuations in professional life on Southnes. Of course, if I'm going to go to the depths of this, there are things that I and we've been unhappy with, which could have helped combat unemployment. Hv. A senator mentioned health issues. We were waiting for the new health care unit, had been waiting for decades. It can provide a lot of work. We're waiting for a nursing home, and it's not coming. [[The president calls.]] So: Yes, the government might have done better than it did.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u170	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the speech. I noticed that he discussed the challenge of finishing this important document by the end of a year ago. I have something like that. Senator. In 2016, I made a new impression on this legislature, where we had to in a single shell green to complete the budget because neither walked nor ran to form a government. The Senate had to agree on budgets without any government activity here. In fact, it was a very interesting experience, and I'd like to say that the Landspit never had anything better than that when there was no government to hold him back. But it's an outcast. At least it was There's some reason we chose in the fall. That was why it took so long for them to start the council, and although I thought it was pretty bad of the Panama government to wait for six months to make a new election, of course it was political for them to buy the time to allow their anger only to recuperate before a new election. Still, they were elections at an unusual time because the government had exploded and the council was late meeting because it did not work to form a government. Eventually, we gave up and started just without a government. The same thing happened in 2017. Then we were back very late, and it was just again because the government exploded, so there was some reason why. But this time, there is no reason. This government simply decided that in the fall, it would be chosen because she wanted a few months unsupervised from the council. She also decided to take nine weeks to renew her vows. So I ask. Senator: Isn't this a fucking suicide for the government? And what do you think? A senator about that?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u171	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sunna's Þórhildur for the counter-sponsored. Yes, I think it's unusual. Many months ago, this government had intended to renew its vows. She was in the palm of the hand of having a vote in spring. So there was nothing more to stop than wanting to sit down until autumn. I didn't see any reason to extend this period in such a way that we would vote here in the dark. Lately, we're all done. A senator mentions the choice of October 28 and 29th. There's something special that we should do. As I mentioned in my history, the local community is at hand for the election in the spring. It should only be done, and if any more part falls, the government should create a new section and finish the terms. There's only other rules here at the council. Here, the government can decide to sit for a short, long time, or just as it pleases it. So, yes, I think it's strange, and it's like it's getting more relief on the government business than the locals do.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u172	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I wondered, " What does it mean to do now? ' Will this government support our choosing in the fall of this experience. We were in this ridiculous mess in the Northwestern district. They take nine weeks to decide that we're not going to do anything about it, and we're going to be left with a painful forehead, and we're going to put up budgets in a few weeks, this tremendously important document. There's a reason we choose in the spring. There is a reason why the Ministers need a good time to study their own lawsuits, that we have summers to focus on a new government so that the budget is ready at the beginning of the fall of the council, so that the council, which is still under the jurisdiction, has enough time to go through it. So I ask. A senator: Does he not feel that it is important for the government to say as soon as possible what it will do in this regard? Will it simply make this a habit, that we choose in the fall, completely removed from all the experience we have from it whatever it can mean, like a mistake in making money? Whatever that means for the council's work before New Year's Eve? Will self - centered power and authority once again be in control of this government after four years?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u173	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yeah, as I'm saying, it's funny to me. I think it should be our common goal to work on it during this terms, that it will be the other end of the way of choosing a spring. Of course, we should unite in highlighting this with those who are serving here in the government that this will be the way the knots can be chosen in the springtime. This arrangement is bad and causes us problems. There's a flood path on this thing, finishing things just before the Battle of the Year. So in order to have the time to do things the way it should be done, I think we should stress choosing in the spring.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u174	President. It's rather hard school coming into the council right now, and I see that it's also an experience. A senator who knows how things can be different. During the unit regime, people are able to work in ways different from those in general, and especially now, after the incredible instigation of the government team that took place in the fall. It's just amazing when it comes to the cooperation or lack of it and how they're going to get their way through, no matter what, in the power of the greater part. It is also of interest that the senator pondered the rigid framework that the Senate has set up for its rural activities, such as the structure we would never set for ourselves. We want to be able to choose at any time, and we want to bring money at any time. We put it in the law, however, when corporations can have elections, when they should bring their financial paper. I didn't want to spend much time in this, but I did one big thing, one touch mark between state and rural society that was left incomplete here during the last term, and that is the gap between nursery and birthday school. It was decided, at last and for the second time, to extend the maternity to 12 months. But seriously speaking: Is there any hope that your rural society will be able to build a bridge with the same financial status as that of a country's income - raiser or a community being set up today? [[The president calls.]] Wouldn't it be a good reason for state and rural society just to have a common conflict on this half of the bridge, now that we've built half the birthworm side?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u175	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for his answer. Yes, rural society is in serious trouble because of large expenditures resulting from saving school schools. The country's communities are getting a lot heavier than that. Farming is currently paying about 80 constituted 90% of the cost due to preschool, but parents may pay at a rate of 10 to 15 percent. Then there is the requirement for a community to obtain resources from a maternity clinic until a child goes to high school. This is not an abnormal requirement in itself because high school is, in fact, defined as a first school phase. So it is not unusual for residents to insist on their community that they receive a child after the birth leave. But there has never been any debate about how to finance it. That discussion has never occurred, and it really is irresponsible from the government. We often hear that our rural communities are only supposed to do this, and this is a gray area, and no one is responsible for this. However, there is a need for a discussion on how to care for children from the end of delivery until they enter the nursery school.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u176	Mr. President. Hv. According to one U.S. Senator, citizens require their rural communities to bridge this gap between birthworm and elementary school. I'm going to agree, and I'm going to have a little disagreement, too, because I think people don't care who does this service. Parents and families just want this service to be performed and demanded. I don't think the people of a community could care more about that from each of the public expenses. I find this problem most crystalline to me, which is the eternal struggle between state and country members regarding which service to give and who to pay for it and all of that. Whatever happens at the end of the cost and damage of service - it's just the public, it's the city, it's the children, it's the people who don't get the service that we all agree they should be able to demand the government to be granted. The government should also have the maturity to work on who gives it without always drawing it somehow into public space. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u177	President. Thank you. A senator resists. Yeah, people don't care, but we still have to realize that the shell for the people is the local community. When people argue because there is not enough service to health care, they argue with the town council. It is not necessarily an argument with the prime minister because it is a closer service that is important to the population. It's going down to the local council: Why aren't you doing this service? It is true that it comes from the same pocket, but it is taxation that is placed on the population in order to provide the specified service. It doesn't matter to us, and it doesn't matter whether the state pays it or the local community, but whether we're sitting on the side or on the State side, who's going to pay for what. There's no such agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u178	A respectable president. Once again, we will discuss the budget of the Government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, the financial laws that have been irreverent in the past four years and that are even more damaging to our society. It is not physical laws that a system that has been built for social security is the way it is. This is the work of men. It is built here at the General Assembly of this twitted monster, which has been sewed together by a number of governments over the past few decades and has become atrocious that no one has overlooked the whole system. In a sense, there is a computer to calculate what is right and what is wrong. There is no way to reason with such a device. Sadly, the situation and the fact that last year a great campaign was under way. The decision to deal with the worst was made, and that was, in effect, a bad necessity. Both agents of the Generals had come to that conclusion, and it was actually a little sore for the government to know about people in the parking lot and the impairments were so out of control that some people actually didn't get anything to do, perhaps they were to live at 60,000,700,000 bucks. per month. We realize that in Iceland it is absolutely hopeless. It was a campaign to make sure that this group gets a minimum amount of pension. You thought, in a good way, that minimum kind of pension was what people could take to a minimum. But no, the government decided that this group would receive 10% less than the minimum amount of life that no one can live on, hardly chew on, and much more. You'd have thought it was enough because people were trying to survive just over 200,000 k. down payment. But it wasn't. The government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, agreed to receive back a cent and set them in the same group. Those who have not lived in this system and who have not experienced a cent in return may not know what it is to speak of, but in simple terms, it is so that any taxable income, whatever name it is called, will reduce the equivalent of a dollar against a dollar. A crown against a dollar is nothing more than a hundred percent of property recordings and the worst form of economic violence that can be used, I think. To say: If we take a high income tax as an example, no one would think of it; everything would be crazy in this community if someone were to think of it, putting on a 100% high - income tax tax if they were to receive a dollar in a given amount. Let's say all those who had come to the high income tax and more than a million, that would be just a dollar worth of taxes. These people could still survive what they receive, but those in the social security system don't have a chance to survive in a dollar against a dollar plus that they get 10% less than they can find in the system. After all the promises given for the 2017 election - and I believe that all classes have probably made a promise to receive a dollar to meet a decrease in micromanagement. The older people had come out of her. By then, a new system had been obtained, so a dollar from which the decrease was gone. In some brilliant way, though, the discussion disappeared, and it's kind of numbed because of a 65 - dollar decrease. In fact, 65 far more money was used to cause some relatively more harm than it did because the system works in a surprising way that if the revenues increase, it will cut down all the benefits that can be cut. It's called a chain reaction within the social security system, but then it goes out and into the local and rural improvements system. There is nothing in this financial bill that builds the hope of those who end up in the future with more goodness and flowers. No matter how often the Kingdom covenant has become prosperous, how often it is! The prime minister mentions that word in his speech - I think the government made the decision to say it just enough, to say it only often, to prosperity, to prosperity, to prosperity, in every other sentence, and then to believe that it means everything. But that's not how it works. The government has to decide to do something about it, to make a decision, and to show the status of these people in at least A little respect. And what's the respect? 1%. It says here, 1% above the index of consumer prices. Yet, the 69th grade is clear. Social security legislation that social security benefits should be increased according to pay development. As shown in my speech and reply earlier today, both to the minister of finance and to others, this was raised on January 1, 2021 in this group by 3.6%. At the same time, our purchase was raised by 7%. Calculator tried to convince people that they were getting a raise of 3.6%, but they only barely caught the inflation. And again, the same game, exactly the same game: you get the insurance policy, 1% more than that. The worst set, this one, 1%, 2,500 bucks, 1,500 bucks. by tax. Somebody said if he counted the damages to the end, it would give him 23 bucks. In the envelope, a wonderful Christmas bonus. It shows us in black that the law is not being performed. This trend has already reached more than 7%. The benefits of those who have received that increase were said to have improved by 2.9%. But this economic growth is taken from this group, and it can't get it, it's not under discussion, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Since 2009, it has grown to about 40%. What does it mean in English? That means that if given correctly, they would be improving the social security that most people receive around 350,000. Then we're talking like a minimum tax pay. There wouldn't be any supernova. If we are right, this group should get 350,000 dollars today. tax and inadequacy. That should be minimal move. Take, for example, the matter of minimal progress, e.g. in the euro. The average minimum yield is reported to be 60% of the average in the country. If we were to apply it to Iceland, we'd all be amazed at 330,000,340,000 bucks. by tax. Suppose we have a person today who gets paid off from this system about $250,000. and he has to pay 200,000 rent, he has to pay the medical and pharmaceutical expenses and then he has to live. I'll tell you just as it is, no one in here would want to be in that position, no one in here would see how they should do it. What, then, are people doing? Yeah, it's going to a bad place. It even goes to a RV, a trailer. It can't pitch. It is then going on in the whole system, and we must not forget that in these wretched circumstances, we have children, thousands of children who don't get the same opportunities as other children. It's got to be said something about us here that we can have a system like this, not for one year, two years, three years, four years, as long as this government has sat, but for the past few decades. It is strange that we have created a system that will wipe out a situation that has been so bad all the time. You would have believed that we had become a slightly civilized nation and that we had come a little further into evolution, that it was some kind of conscience, something to drive us forward in trying to do better. Of course, you could believe it at a time when it was the highest. The prime minister of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, said that this was the very group that could no longer wait for righteousness. They could no longer wait for justice. This was said in a campaign, but this group is still waiting, and I'm afraid they'll have to wait another four years. We have a health system that I can't see in this budget bill that's going to get a lot better. We have 100 elderly persons trapped in a high - tech hospital, and the cost per person is 200,000. ritonavir. Not long ago, a person was released from a hospital and sent home. He was unique and lived alone in his apartment, and then someone came to help him. He went to the refrigerator to try to find a family, but the only thing in the refrigerator, the thing that was open when the door was opened, was an enamel bottle and maltdor. How difficult it must have been to choose between getting some metal or malt. But if we cross this metaphor today, we aim what's happening right now and it's going to happen, then the person's choice was before it's not today. Thanks for choosing either, not both, and very likely neither. We must and should start shoving our sleeves and showing that the prosperity that this government has now taken over is being proclaimed for all. But it is so amazingly far from the scene, and we can see right away that a vacation market, an elderly sidemark, is being transferred to 100,000 dollars. In 200,000 K. and say it costs 500 million. That's actually a little funny because inside 500 million costs are not taken into account by the tax paid by the individual. This is not to be considered in terms of credit taxes or other indirect profits for the state's funds because these individuals are employed. This must be one of the stupidest things you can ever put up with, and I've never really really been able to understand. The government has often talked about that in the future there will be so much older citizens, and people will be short for work, young people and workers. At the same time, however, those who want to work are being beaten and banned. And where does that amazing stupidity appear? Yes, in the disability system. In thinking that the government will pay the person a sum every month, but if he dares to add the amount and go to work, take the initiative, she'll hit him, cut him. I don't understand this stupid shit. A group of people asked for a bill to allow microchips to go to the job market, find work, and work for two years. Why? Yeah, Swedes did it. What did that mean? Yes, 30% of them didn't return to the system. It tells us that we have a system that is insane, and we have tried, not even twice, not three times, but many times, to change this system. Blöndalur Bömell's Committee, I was in it, reviewing social security, and I was in the last Commission on a review of social security benefits: non-endurable ideas, great ideas, but unfortunately most or all knocked off the board because the government doesn't see or don't want to see the status of the desperates who have it today and therefore does not understand the mental status of the particular groups. They are in the position of being found and felt the road to life. It's a lousy, destructive system where you don't know what you're getting from a month to a month because your system works, so if you don't give the exact numbers to the insurance agency, you'll get paid a year later. I called it a great day of terror, because it is, of course, a terrible situation for an individual if he is given some small income to be beaten down and undergoing extraordinary financial hardship. I'm not talking about something I don't know. I've been in exactly this myself, been in the position of getting large payments from a pension fund and thinking that now I can pay my debts and get back on track and do it. But I did not spend long in Paradise, for a year later, a government agency said: "It's not gonna work out. ' We'll take away every cent we have for a year. I know a lot of people have been through this. Many out there already see that about a month's match will be taken from 30,000, 40,000 bucks, 50,000 a.m., 60,000 even more, because they have received a small income somewhere else in the previous years, and they have not given it up on the right time. How important it is that the government is not preying on disabled and long - suffering people! We have a system that is incredibly sensitive, especially in the health system, and especially in the case of children. I've always said and will say it here again and again, and I'll say it many times until, hopefully, once and for all, one child is waiting for a service is too much. V.E.G. The secretary of finance spoke today of a number of disability, 10% of the nation, working people. They would have to respond. What is the government doing to deal with this? I can tell you that. She's producing microchip on an assembly line into the future. How does she do that? Yes, by denying children the privilege of service. A three - year - old who needs speech training, what's the situation after three years when he finds out? How does it come out? Or the child I heard of, seven years old, who needed analysis, will pass through the diagnostic procedure, and it was said: Thank you if the child finds out when he's nine or ten years old. What happens to these individuals when they go through the school system? This is a check for the future disability. Therefore, I say, we must make sure that children are not waiting for services. I got a report on the children's waiting list in the spring after Covid, and most of them had doubled. After analysis, we were up to 1,400 from 700. How do you think the situation is now? I'm telling you, she's got a big deal worse. We have an amazing number of senior citizens who need a waiting replacement operation. And like the government, it throws away the dollar and saves the money. You may have a replacement surgery in Sweden, but you must not have a replacement operation on the other side of the street where you could perform three operations for one. Everybody would think it's a bad trade. I hope, though, that there is something going on. There is something else that is also gravely serious. I killed Björn Zoëga, who works at the Swamp's Hospital of Carolina, Sweden, telling of the concerns of Swía because there would be a series of sick people for cancer, because people with cancer and some other diseases have sat on the line in Covid. We know that heart surgery is being stopped on the same day because of Covid. I say, are we at the point where people can die of everything except Covid? There must be a requirement for us to make sure that while Covid is on the move, those who suffer from other diseases will have their services. That shouldn't be a big deal. Then I hope the government will see to it once and for all, to do as they did last year. It'd be great to have 100,000 bucks. The worst tax and decrepitation to them now set for Christmas, just a little extra. That'll help. We have hundreds if we don't have thousands in line after dinner and we're supposed to see our dignity in making sure that no one has to line up after dinner in Iceland. But we do not. I've been talking about this since I've been in this speech chair four years ago, but it doesn't change because the government doesn't care. She's not gonna change this. Then I ask myself, " Why not? ' What makes this government, who has been in for four years and who intends to stay for four more years, not ready to help the worst and see to it that they can go shopping, buy their own food, and don't have to line up after dinner work just before Christmas?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u179	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for him alone struggles to promote the cause of those who live in poverty in Icelandic society. But there may be some points I especially stopped in his speech, in his assessment of the situation of this group after examining a budget bill. Secretary of finance. I wanted to ask him in particular about a group close to me, a single parent. I've only looked at these matters and, as I suppose most of us know in this room, that living room, and health status are key factors that predict that people live not only in poverty but in very few. Single parents are at an increased risk of getting very poor and their children's natural needs. We all know these sad stories, but I still think it's a reflection of that too, that it's a shame that we rarely see parents surface and describe the circumstances of their children under the name of the media. It tells a story too. I'm hearing a sentence. A senator about his last terms, but I wanted to ask him a question earlier: "When he looks through this financial bill with the interests of this group in mind, single parents in poverty, or even in desperate condition, are there any evidence that there are positive steps in the interests of this group?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u180	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I just have to say right away: I know the circumstances of single - parent families, and especially four years ago, before I arrived at the council, I was in a life of self - survival, in the Microcording Community, and in the European Year against poverty and social isolation, where a man met this group. I wouldn't say that this was some huge group, anything impossible to do to make sure that this group can live and get out of a lot of money. But it is not even trying to take this group out of poverty. What may be the scariest thing when we accept this term, single parents - what does this mean? Yes, that means it's one parent with a child. Then I think, " What is the position of these children? ' These may be one, two, three children in this situation. We know that it has been shown, year after year, that these parents and these children are living in miserable circumstances. But it's always spoken, the government is talking about improving this position, I've heard them say, "Now you have to deal with it and see to it how you can improve the situation of single parents." There are reports showing that this is the worst group. It is spoken and spoken, but there is no conclusion. There's nothing done. So I fear that one more time nothing will be done. It will be spoken, but it will not return, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u181	A respectable president. I mentioned especially single parents, but we also know that illness leads to poverty in an Icelandic society, which, of course, is a tragic judgment on a country like Iceland where there should be no reason for that. Only again with regard to single parents, because I think it is so important to draw out what is really being spoken of there, a single parent living in poverty or in this situation. I know that, too, as well. A senator noted that this is not a large group, and Iceland is well in international comparison, but it's trying to catch it. Well, that's what I'm talking about. I find it interesting to now look at a newly formed government in which we have a social minister, we have a health minister, we have a child - care minister. We have three offices, three Ministers who should be on this case. This may be a positive one, but the danger is also that this project decays and divides into too many ministers. But sometimes it is said that children who live under these circumstances cannot pursue sports as much as other children can, they cannot pursue leisure activities, their dress is not controlled with other children, or the quality of life with other children. They're denied movies, trips, everything we believe is part of a normal life in Iceland. However, less frequently, those who are children of their parents are spoken of as being very poor. Then we're way beyond those variables. Then we come to the basic factor of being ill because of housing, being ill because of health care, simply getting sick when it comes to giving birth to our children. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That is why I am so disappointed to hear that the senator sees no positive signs on this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u182	Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I just have to say that three Ministers, ten Ministers - it won't make any difference if the will is not there. That's what I find strange is that we lack because we are a very rich society. It would be no problem for us to straighten this out if we wanted to. We know that single parents are often a major part of the group in line for food, such as the one standing in line for food. and we know that we are, in effect, putting the whole family at risk for the future because they are not getting the right food. I'm not putting out what they get for a diet, but it says that the person is in such a state that he wants to choose his own food, and there's no certain that the food the person receives will be suitable for him. We know that children have food intolerance and various kinds, and we are playing games, in itself, that the government is playing with the future and the health of families, many families alone. We need to realize that single parents need to have housing, food, clothing, and everything, in some cases, many of these things, to try to keep it going, and to try to make sure that their children receive what other children receive. But it's not gonna work out, it's never gonna work out unless we make sure once and for all, the government does something. It's our job here, we have to work it out, and we have to hope. I really hope they see the light, but considering the last four years, I don't think it's very likely.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u183	V.E.G. President. First, I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson for a extensive and material discourse on the status of disability in view of the provisions found in the bill for financiers. Of course, it is, as mentioned in the discussion, totally irresponsible to leave a large group of citizens in this country in poverty; much less leave children and young people in that position and actually impair their opportunity for the future because, as mentioned: If a child grows up in poverty, the risk of the same child becomes poor. It's our job here to stop it. I want to thank the senator for reviewing this reality and this situation in his fine speech. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: I would decide on the matter of the day. The chairman of a budget board earlier today, and it's shown that it is in the budget bill, that a new system is not being introduced. I think we know the system, but I understood the chairman of the legal committee, so there should be some money in it. I'm thinking that it's very dangerous to think about saving with a new system, and I'd like to hear what it's all about. The senator says so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u184	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. It's a very good question. I was on the committee that was taught by Pétur Blöndalur back then and then by the last committee. A new system on an old foundation, that's what was the problem. We do not create a new system by saving, and we are not supposed to go into it. If we're going to create a new system, thinking that we're gonna save some money, then the system's done before we start. It's never gonna work out, because that's when we're going to be saying we're going to make these people with more money than they have now, they can't work; that we're going to cut even more jobs if someone goes to the new system and starts working. How can you be sure? We must begin with another thought, as I have always said. You go and tell people: " If you can work, go to work. ' I'd just like to say right away today: 2-year adjustment, you can go to work. You may be able to work for three months - some people, especially those who suffer from mental illness, may work for three months and then fall out. But if you work for three months, you have 21 months out of two years. You'll get this two-year adjustment. The government is talking about saving, what would it give if these people, who are paid anyway, would pay the taxes. In that case, the government would immediately receive money in return. In this system, the state immediately gets income across. At the same time, however, a person would be motivated to work because he saw to get a little more in his pocket to lead a slightly better life.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u185	President. I hear we're what we're talking about. A senator can understand this in the same way. I deeply agree that no matter what it looks like, a new system is not to be introduced on the grounds that it is a saving operation, and it can't be that way. We know that it just can't be like that. Hv. A member of the Committee called Blöndalur Bönaral, and I know only the work of other committees in this field. There have been dozens if not hundreds of cases on these issues, but there have been a lack of political initiative and political will to make the needed changes. And I think we're getting it out of the same direction, i.e. to provide workers with impaired ability to work according to their ability to work without economic punishment, but to build up the production so that everyone has minimal progress and that we are not talking about extensions of 80,000 k. under the minimum wage in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u186	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. You see, it's exactly this whole new system -- how would I, for example. starting a new system? I've been thinking about how we could start many times. If we were about in a good world, we'd say to the poor: "Go out and find a job, you can work, and then you'll get your income. ' But we'd start by saying, " We're not gonna hurt you when you're involved in the work you're doing. ' Perhaps that would lift the person. Let's say he's got 200,000. In a month, it might be 350,000. The down payment, and nothing would get any worse. Everyone would make better money, the person would get more money, and hopefully he would have a better life, and the state would get tax money because we need working people. We're always talking about that in the future we need working people, so I've never been able to understand that we're telling people not to work. But then we say, which is the raisin at the hot dog end, which I noticed during the discussion: Those who do not trust themselves to cross into the new system and do not trust to be there to go back to the old system. For what? In the misery there. We are going to create a system where people are in very poor condition, allowing time to get out of that system, and see how they can live a slightly better life. Then people get sick and can't go on, and they're supposed to go back in good condition. What kind of violence is that? We have to put it into the old system that people can live a decent life. Then people move back and return to a decent life, not to some rotten system they could not once be in, and they did nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u187	A respectable president. I'm following a whole different politics than this government thing. I don't expect the Union's policy to be in charge when the current government builds budgets. However, one must insist that the government budget for the next year's taxes and expenses, income and expenses for the next year, reflect in some way the results of elections, campaigns, and the government contracts that decided to form a government. It's not that kind of a bag here. It is quite a shame to live up to the speech we heard about the last weekend, all talked about green revolution, innovation, and challenges of the 21st century. There is no serious application to these topic areas, the sort of categories that all our futures depend on. Let's talk about the environment and climate issues that were supposed to be the largest focus on the government. In any case, it is finally setting a real climate goal, a target of 55% reduction in emissions. Iceland has nine years, nine budgets, to achieve this goal. How is the purpose of these laws reflected? The increase in climate, in view of the budget established by the government earlier this year, nearly zero, seems to me. According to the post-employment budgets, contributions to climate should gradually be drawn up for the next few years. In fact, there is no particular reference to this bill, which is something I feel must be added to the budget in the coming years. But it is only natural that we, the lawgiver, who have the legal authority, have a very detailed view of all of this. In general, environmental contributions are summed up in these budgets relative to what was expected in a financial programme. It'll certainly increase 350 million. K. from the current budget of this year, which is now just cock shit in the big context, 0.01% of GDP. As noted, more money is spent for cattle production and sheep farming next year than for climate and green building. This is no green revolution, I witness in wording as supreme. Environment and climate minister, Guðlaugur Þórðarson, used to interview the News News of the Days. It's so far from being some kind of green revolution. And after COP and all the international conversions, you must ask yourself: If a rich nation like Iceland, who get out very much of an appeal number, if a rich nation as we do not trust to take a real step in climate change, why should the poorest nations of the world do so? It's just a really bad message we're sending with a policy like this. Now I've only been talking about my expenses, but we don't see any green revolution on the income side when it comes to green taxes and bills. There's just the same calming sound, and there's no evidence that the government has some clear plan on how our carts can be used to speed up energy exchange. We have nine years to reach the 55% goal, and this government has four budgets to do its thing, hopefully fewer if these budgets are a clue to what to come. Let's talk about education. It is not enough that the present government has decided to tear apart the educational issues of counseling, in some way scatter them over the edge of the ground, and without any understandable or intelligent involvement behind it. Today, they too plan to reduce educational donations rather than advance. The total pay for high school is summarized by 2.2 billion per year, and an absolute reduction in sectoral production and investments between the year and the course of research is proposed. It's a word of speech in the budget. What about the state school and elementary-school projects? These contributions also decrease. There is also a reduction in future education and ongoing education, which is extremely important in these times of rapid changes in labour markets. Where the hell is the parish mind here? What kind of future is this? Of course, close educational issues are art, culture, sports and youth, and the government is also planning to reduce the government's donations to this sector, about 656 million between the years. Newborn contributions and research production increase a little over the next year, but it is only assumed that they will get along well over the next few years. Do you remember the leisure grants to children that the forward party talked about in the campaign? They are no part of this bill, not even implemented or specifically mentioned in the government covenant. What about e.g. increase the birth span of students? There is something that even independents agreed with us in the U.S.A. to do. Nothing like that in those laws, no more than e.g. actions to protect students' survival, e.g. The foundation of the education fund for students, or the education of students, is up - to - date. Everything's missing. It is only in complete harmony with the fact that the word " students, " or students, does not appear in the Mosaic Law of this government. The European Union of Iceland has declared that the government's support for housing security and transport systems will work out the results of the labor movement's demand for collective agreements in 2022 and 2023. That's what matters. But when it comes to social housing, we see complete resolution in this financial bill. Just when we should be giving in, a large supply of practical housing, thus protecting the housing security, controlling the local market, and in the process of holding back the inflation that is always worst on the standard of living for those who suffer. And child support - no injection, either. Now I've talked about and called for measures that cost money, cost a lot of money. And that's exactly right, which is the highest. The financial and economic secretary and others have been harping on the fact that now that the manufacture is gradually disappearing, now that the government seems to be losing control of the inflation, we need to be alert to the influence of public funds on prices and interest levels. It's very important. But let's be clear, more dignified President, that we in this room, with the lawgiver, with the financial authority, have the opportunity to increase expenses without raising debt and without promoting inflation and disrupting economic stability. We do this by making money as we increase our expenses. However, political decisions, political decisions regarding any political priorities, something as a government, formed on such a vastly broad, cross - political, and remarkable foundation, have to avoid such a hot fire. Let us take a look at the chart on page 5 of this magazine. 103, with President's permission: However, at the time of the bill preparation, the primary objective has been made that the number of new or increased costs will not be further than those related to the conditions caused by the Korean virus epidemic. In addition, there is not much movement on the income side of the budget in connection with a tax change plan, apart from temporary measures taken by the reversible pandemic, as many improvements have been made in recent years. Isn't that all you have to say? The government has the primary objective of not selling banks and making new money. Is it supposed to be the primary object of budget law, completely independent of the state of the economy and completely independent of the huge joint and challenge we face? What a state-of-the-art policy, what a political act as the left movement, and the advance party represent here, classes that went out in the campaign to want to invest in people, increase equations, save the children, etc. And one of them with a middle class, as great a left category as the middle class. But, yes, it's still where they want to defend. How is the commercial and property division in Iceland that these groups certainly don't want to interfere with? Let's review some facts. 30% of the new wealth created last year to the richest 1% in Iceland, a total of 37.3 billion dollars. This is the richest 1% of Icelanders at 902 billion in their own money. Of these, 240 homes, the richest 0.1% in Iceland, 293 billion, 293,000 million. K. Share in 240 homes. And, in fact, these assets are far more extensive than I am referring to the government tax returns of the taxpayer, which includes stocks in the value of real estate prices. But this gives us some picture of the situation of the very richest ones, some of which, of course, have so much more in some African country. We can't talk about the property in Iceland without talking about the fish in the ocean. Many of these people have naturally enriched the use of resources that we all have together, the resources we have here at the General Council, the how the right to use it is arranged. Last year, the fishing industry reached an historic peak. Exploitors received over 21 billion in money, 888 million. K. to one man, the largest owner of Brims. 715 million to the largest member of the West Coast. This is how the book of the house is located on those towns. But on the other side of the court are the people who have nothing, the people who live on the couches, the thousands of people who live in an unauthorized home because of poverty and the terrible conditions of the housing market, the uncooperative people, the desperate who have to draw life at a point far below 300,000 dollars. per month. They're the people who've been sitting here year after year, election season after terms, budgets by budget. So there are two societies in Iceland, two worlds, and the government of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir does not seem to intend to lift a little finger to reduce this inequities. Nor does the financial bill show any efforts to increase the share of the Icelandic public in the profit of the fish resources. Here, let us consider some facts. Last year, the owners of companies received four times more money from the use of sea resources than they did in the form of fishing bills to the public. I'm going to say it again, because it matters: last year's trade from the fishing grounds was four times that of hunting. And how does the trend in fishing between budgets, in the light of the sun, and in the long run? Yeah, fishing costs get together from year to year, they get younger next year than they were this year. Of the government's Constitution and the Constitution, it can be concluded that there are no special plans to raise or divide the cost of the government, let alone posts on labour markets. No such thing exists, nothing. The giant giant in the fishing field will continue to flow to the few and rich rather than to the real owner of the nation. And now it's going to happen on watch of the left green in the Marine Department. A respectable president. We need to talk about social security. I agreed with many of the points presented in the Sermon on the Mount. paritaprevir Guðmundur of Ingi, son of Kristinsson. This financial bill is a check for continued blundering between remuneration and pensions, and particularly between basics and the lowest remunerations. This is a financial bill in which once again a political decision is made to leave those who depend on the pension, wait for justice. The government is going to double the income market for older people. All right. In the large context of the context, this operation takes only a violation of older people. There are only 4,000 who take pensions with their heads of a number of businesses, according to the insurance department board. 60% of them earn their income under the current holiday target and thus do not benefit from this increase. There are only 1,500 people, or more, who benefit from the rise, and this is not the group of older ones who are doing so badly, not at all. But what may be screaming at is the inconsistencies shown in the fact that now the commercial income market is eight times higher than the pension income market. The public holiday goal is still tight at $25,000. Of course, a month or so, even though pension pay is no more than the income of people who have conscientiously paid in a pension fund. What is the basis for this discrepancy? I don't know. But on whom is this most mistaken? That's for sure. This abuse of people who have worked hard all their lives and cannot continue to work in old age. This takes on the sailor, the orderly, the carpenter, the teacher, the people who do their job all their life and must retire because of their health. These people have to accept the voluntary goal of earning a $25,000. and then you just start to bite right away. Here, the Government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, is going in the opposite direction toward the development of the other northern countries, e.g. in Denmark, where a government of peers is creating changes in the will of people who have worked tirelessly all their years of work. The government of St. Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, would rather continue to punish these people, run a taxing policy where poor older people will have to pay all too high a perimeter tax and are punished for having collected a pension fund. A respectable president. What is most striking, though, is the absolute ignorance of the administrative sector toward people with impaired working abilities, incorruption of people, and disability. Where is justice, in effect, to raise only the income market of older people but not in microfundant markets that have taken place in 109,000 dollars? every month for more than ten years? And how is this really compatible with all government declarations that people with impaired working ability need to be encouraged? Why not just encourage people by using the rod? This is for the eighth time as the highest. A financial minister named Bjarni Benediktsson contributes funds that replace professional disability with the financial market. Now it's almost time for this vacation market to be high to twice that of the old city's four-year-old income market. Where, for example, is justice in this policy of peninsulancy? Where is the fairness of high-payers, such as us here in this hall, paying 46% taxes on each of the extra dollars we earn, but that an invalid going to the labour market may have to pay a perimeter tax of perhaps 70-80%? Why on earth does the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter want this to continue? A respectable president. Of course, we will discuss more. I hope they get better and the bandworm has something to do with conversation. In this discussion and the work of the world, I'd like to remind you that the way people have it, how wide the gap is between the losers and the best of the people, it's all just a political decision. Political choice of how we divide the quality of society. Indeed, we have no excuse for anything more than to press forward with power than in this financial bill. Refuse the government firmly to equalize the terms, create a better and green society where not all but some people are good.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u188	Madam President. The discussion of the budget bill began in a special way here at the beginning of the day with a normal discussion about meeting management in view of the fact that the bill had been sent out for reviews without so much that the committee on the matter had been called together. It's unusual and it seems like, in late stages, nothing but when very special circumstances have existed. At the end of 2017, this happens when people are in a very narrow position of time, in view of government breakups and elections and so on. I hope that this awkward beginning of this journey will be considered in the context of the fact that falling is a good thing at the end of the day. If we look at the big picture in the current budget bill, we will continue to look at the growth of the stall. This is a review of the Board of Directors, a review designed to help employees of various institutions to find out where to come to work the next day. Of course, there is no doubt about it, stressing that all of this seems to work in one way or another to ensure a sufficient number of chairs and that it can be divided so that everyone will be reasonably happy. When we're getting out of the condition we've been in for two years of this Covid period, it's just amazing to watch what you can call just the lack of respect from the government for the city tax dollars. We are now looking at the extended remuneration gate, expenses of 1,203 billion, and this is based largely on a financial program adopted last spring to the next five years. All you need to do is go back and examine the discussion that happened then. Of course, it was all in the sense that on this plate there would be nothing built, that men would sail into elections, and that it would only be revealed in the way a new government would handle matters. At least one president of the present governmental body gave so little of the money based on these budgets that he described it as follows, as it were, to the highest degree. Minister, I'll let you tell the head of the advance party, that would have thrown the bag into the trash. That's the basis of this law. So here are the representatives of the greater part saying, the budget on which we built this document was so well thought we didn't have to do much. It was all set. Of course, it's not like that, and in view of that, I'd like to encourage a representative of a financial committee to take the time needed to win this case, call out to those who need to be called and addressed properly because it's absolutely certain that some factors are subsidized, some of which are overbrowded, something missing, and something is completely unnecessary. And even though we are in December now, the situation is that it has been only a few years since a budget bill was not distributed until I remember just December 14. It was completed, so we are not so pressed in time. We'll take the time we need. Total expenditure is now 1,203 billion. Of course, there is a huge amount in no greater society than this, and it reminds us that the Icelandic nation has the most taxing value in the OECD countries. After you take into account the financing of your pension system and put it on the same schedule for most of the nations that compare with it, we are in the top three seats. I think that most of the time we're in second place on a total tax burden. Given what is here, there is no evidence that we are getting out of that position in the predictable future. Happily, though, when the Covid situation broke out, the state's funds were quite well in position. The time when Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson was prime minister and Benediktsson Benaksson was financial minister, and the result was reached even. in the renovations at that time, or thereafter, created the foundation on which we stood when this situation broke down. I think it should be kept to the occasion, especially because I think it's rather unwary with government funds. In this context, you can't really skip it - and I apologize that I'm not yet involved in the subject of the budget but sometimes you just have to lose weight. I've been following politics a long time, young as it is, and I've never seen anyone like a minister and handling public funds like that, just never. It was described as saying that some ministers could hardly have gone out of the way for weeks apart from distributing dozens if not hundreds of millions in the direction they likely thought an additional law would fall or then they would need someone to sit on a list. Then, suddenly, that group of languages received a fine payment that had been rejected for years. Quarter election. It's our tax dollars. It's tax money that we might be doing pretty good things for, but ended up as the most powerful campaign fund of the recent election. There's no doubt about it. I'm sure we're going to go through this better, and I'd like to throw up the fact that there's a general accountant's report on how these things happened, because this is certainly all but a misuse of position and abuse of public funds. So I'm just getting into the budget bill, I think, as I say, the budget part is pretty swollen, over 1,200 billion in total. The surface side's a lot cooler. To tell them, a solution is not to increase the income with additional taxes, to which we are taxed as a nation. We must, as has been said so many times today, grow out of this position, but that cannot be done with what we see right now. The firm finds itself in the position that it is just random whether they are dealing with a government that is approaching their left or right cases. We can see that, for example. if we just look at the health sector in any way that those who were in some kind of private business or just a free partner, the nose of the cancer community, were hung over in the last term. It is not certain that there will be improvement, when it comes to producing us out of the position we are in right now with a rise in values and resources, that our country's companies are subject to the uncertainty of not knowing whether it's a year of rules, bans, and appeals are imminent in their environment or whether freedom is being handled. Then I'm not in any context saying that it should be freedom to do anything. Of course, all of us, whether people or businesses, need to act in a manner that is incorruption and in harmony with national law. Now I'd like to mention a few points on the budget that I hope a financial committee that I don't have, would have a special look at. Funds have entered - including In the context of the dramatic part of the budget, which is called tax grants, which are meant to explain to us citizens that the state has all of this in one way or another, and that it is so humble as to leave behind something in the pockets that worked for the valuables. This is an example of how the system takes over. When the government law was adopted, distributed in September 2015, and adopted for the year, it was an innocent explanation of the 14th issue of Article 3. which says: And what would the tax strength now mean? This is a frightening reputation, but what the law on government finance says is that tax paybacks for tax returns on taxpayers because of special circumstances or circumstances, or circumstances. Re-importation of the tax requirement. This is 2015. What does this mean today? The budget bill describes this as, under section 4.4 Tatta grants, by permission of the President: A review of tax concentrations, as shown in the accompanying table, to be not relevant to material matters today - the development of the State in the form of financial support that the State provides through the tax system rather than through financial contributions that move on the pay-line. The overall share of taxes is estimated to be 3.1% of VLPs next year. The bottom level of WSK is the source of about half the total tax concentration and is calculated as the difference between the lower level and the general level, or 13 percent of the tax stock. What the hell is this shit? It's as if those who control feel that what's not taken from us citizens with higher taxes is such a warm, warm delivery. To the government, the difference between a higher and a lower value tax level, towards, for example, Food and other necessities, if some kind of gift is similar to the situation we found in not long ago, when the government demanded our taxes, individually, and all the companies of the country, and then returned 5,000 bucks. Return and call it administration, travel. What I'd like to draw out in this context is that we're in some bad place as far as getting closer to the taxpayer and the country's company, with the thoughts that shine through here on the budget bill. The description of these amazing tax grants is quite natural and Hebrew if we look at how it comes into the law on public financial matters, as I came in earlier: The subsequent administration of tax requirements to taxpayers for special circumstances or incidents. That's tax money. We're calling the difference between the top and the lower value tax levels. Then there are big men, beating their breasts and saying: 3.1% of GDP is the tax payback we give to the citizens in one way or another. But it's all nonsense and it doesn't hold any conclusions. We're supposed to stop this. Enough about that. I'm going back to try to get into the budget myself, hope I don't lose my thing again. I mentioned in my talk about Prime Minister's debate that the State's Convention was filled with the words ▪ on the subject and on the course. One way or another, it would be to stretch the flounder here during the last term. All the while, it was all over the place. They were to work on the rest and so on. But there is one project that seems to have to be done, which is the job of all jobs, which was extended at the time of the Covid operation and brought in. the maintenance of cars and other components, the reimbursement rate increased and so forth. I would like for a financial committee to consider specifically whether it would be wise to let that operation out now when the prices of the raw market rise as rapidly as it is in these months, as we look at the lack of housing that leads to an increase in housing and pressures on inflation and other factors. Is it right now that the time point is right for this phase to go out? I'm not sure. Another factor that I would like to come to is transportation, taxation on new cars, taxation, and automobile and traffic payment. I've been on the Environment and Transport Committee for the past four years where transportation has hardly been discussed differently than pointing out that it is necessary to implement a new system for operating on the road system. The current reciprocal system is being progressively extended by the conversion of automobile fuel from a slow and slow recovery of diesil and fuel cars to powered electricity or other energy sources. It's been called for the entire last term, it wasn't just beginning at the end of the last terms, it's been called out for the entire elected period, but the government's on it. Suddenly, it seems that they woke up. When did they wake up? Yes, when only the tax collectors began to see it. Sadly, looking ahead is not easy. Men are always reacting. We need to update this approach. There is, however, something else hanging on the stick. I have in most of my answers at earlier points today asked members of the board who have come up here every position in terms of a so-called cooperation project, PPP, a law that was approved here during the last term and included six projects to work in cooperation with state and private people. It's even there. A tunnel under the mountain of Tryh: it is the river horns; it is the way of Axi; a new Half-dre tunnel; the waterway is in there. I'm sorry I'm forgetting about one job in there. [[Inside.--Elijah.]] - Yes, thank you, sir. Minister of the I.R. and Environment and Transport Committee member during the past term, Jón Gunnarsson. Of course it's the bridge over Elysian. The situation is that while this new account base for the use of the road system is not implemented, nobody of course dare to move on in these materials. There is no way to say that we have found a solution in this regard to the Half above - Earth tunnel at the time. Today, a much larger expansion is being looked forward, which will likely be applied to more projects. So I don't think there's any way we can get on with this while we haven't upgraded the whole road system. I'm glad this is being discussed right now, but I'd also like to criticize the fact that this is being discussed right now because it's been called out for a long time, and I realized this would be a real problem. Another thing I'd like to come in here is taxation on new cars. The driver's connection, or at least Their representative, was in the media not many weeks ago, and was reviewing how this induction, or conversion, was taking place in new energy cars, and expressed great concern that there would be a gap in the gap, both in the delivery of cars into the Icelandic market and investigation or inoculation or inoculation of the country's homes, if this intention arose today. In many ways this would be happening by itself. The price of the electric cars would be to decrease and increase the quality and so forth through the streets, but people would need one or two more years, which is probably two or three, but let's leave it in part, that's not a big deal. But in any case, these concerns were, and I considered the presentation that was used in a rather credible way. In effect, it was claimed that it was happening over the next two years, that we no longer have to worry about this, that this would happen on our own. The producers would be more and less able to bring cars to competitive prices in the groups most needed by Icelanders and have to maintain that Iceland is expected to have the highest ratio of four-wheel drive cars based on a bull, I'm going to tell you. All of this, in turn, brings me to the point presented in the talk of history at the highest. The secretary of finance regarding contributions to climate, which showed that from the present position, they would be added a billion each year to collect. Millions first, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, and ten in ten years, making it 10 billion a year in addition to the current climate. If that is the case, the key is that we meditate on how the money is best used. I think that a deeper part of this would be used more effectively for various other national cleaning projects. But if this is the case, we have to take advantage of the money in things and things that matter. We cannot find ourselves in the position of being the ant who wants to lead the herd anyway. As for the electric cars, we were guided by what large manufacturers are doing abroad, not by some action at home. We need to allow the markets to cooperate with this transformation. We should not try to drive it faster or slower than the market offers. There's a lot of difference between link trucks and cars from what was just a few years ago. It's happening at a pretty good pace. Let's just enjoy it, let's make it happen. Let us not waste our energy trying to speed this up beyond the market. There's no use. The fact is, of course, that the indiscriminates involved are all intervening in these amazing taxes. I imagine there's one line in the taxes conversation, losing income from new energy cars, electric cars. We have to turn this around. We must stop looking at all of this in such a way that at first it belongs to the Kingdom. We're the citizens, the people, the homes, and the companies. We're making these valuables. The government's taking this away from us, not the other way. So, about the taxation of new energy cars, I'd like that to happen. The financial committee takes this into consideration and calls for a representative of the Garifuna Association who has the opportunity to cross this situation because I think it really matters that in one way or another, this trend does not fall between a ship and a dock. It is noteworthy that there is considerable recession on the construction side of the budget, especially on transport. Of course, a number of initiatives undertook in connection with the Covid situation are coming to an end. But it was shown in return to the highest degree. Secretary of finance to me here at the beginning of the discussion that it would have been difficult to get the money out. There were a lot of funding, but projects have not kept up with the provisional funds. And why would that be? More than ten years ago, the bank crash here, calls it a bank crash, and in effect, more and less all of the government's investments were screwed off for a few years. Since then, all of this, whether in nursing homes, constructions for special institutions, the road system, or anything else, has been worked on in the field of action. In the absence of the perspective - these are all job initiatives - companies do not build up and they don't increase as they would if they had a clear line in the way the infrastructure would take place and they could plan. Jobs could grow, they could cover over a longer period of time. All of this would be of benefit in terms of achieving both the quality of tasks, the lower price, the higher quality, the number of enterprises that managed large tasks, so that we were not in the position we are today, not to put the money out. Of course, it is part of not getting the money out of that incredibly complex surveillance system, especially in the workers' sector, which is holding out quite a number of projects that should be disposed of. But it's another matter, and hopefully we'll be filming here at the council this winter. I hope, therefore, that we will succeed in putting more vision into the thought that turns to the projecting side. We have a 15 - year transport plan, but we rock the budget like an electrocardiogram. This is not likely to strengthen and/or increase the number of people who are qualified to do real projects. This is an item that must be considered now in this context. After two years of the Covid procedure, the availability and importance of the company are more important than ever. I'd like to mention insurance. I asked the highest. Secretary of finance about this in counter-reflation earlier today. I'm surprised that from year to year, on the updated estimate of insurance income in 2021 to year 2022, the income of state funds is going from 93 billion to 107, of this tax, which is a tax on people who work, of course, is quite contrary. But while we're on unemployment that's right about 5%, I have to admit that if it's all because of an increase that doesn't go back and is explained by it, and then it's about to move into the budget's tax section, it's necessary to be treated by a financial committee on these factors or if people are simply going over the goal of this evaluation. I'd also like to mention that there has to be an established way through the civilisation system. During a discussion of the policy debate of the prime minister, there were some new projects that are anticipated on the basis of the government's declaration of policy. And just because I end up on that page, it was called the highest. The Minister of Alfreðsdóttir Dögg Dög Alffreddóttir that there should be a music center, there should be a new area of art, that should be supported by an artist's labour fund, and, of course, this was the case in other grammatic areas. We've got to try and get the hang of it. It is, in fact, absolutely small enough, that a financial committee can identify what is in the pipeline on the basis of the government's policy declaration with new institutions, increased staff, and increased financial resources. I'm not saying that this is all unnecessary. We just have to know what we're talking about. That's a minimum catch. I'm gonna give myself a second. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson is asking for this on a financial committee. In this context, I would like to refer to an article published on the National Association of Employment now a few days ago, covering the possibility of a united surveillance team. Of course, they are heavier than tears, they have been discussed recently, and in one way or another, they have come from the Contestant Guard, and I may be thinking especially about the affairs of the Festival and the Crown, if I do not forget about the company involved. We cannot be right in this regard if a matter is common in this way. At the end, I just want to say one thing and keep it in place. On the financial network, I examined how it is estimated that transport investment will develop until 2024. I was not surprised that the decrease from year to year was 22.4% in this factor, but I was surprised to learn that the fall from the next three years was 37%, a collection. [[The president calls.]] I'm sure it's more than just the mess with the recent campaign. [[The president calls.]] - I have so many points to go, tops. Mr President, I'd like you to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u189	President. I find this exciting discussion of expansive blocs and extending remunerations and such, especially in the context of various economic theories. Economics are a little different, and economics are a little different. A senator mentioned here is not the only economics in use, nor is it a measure of economics. Throughout the centuries, we have used a variety of economics, and it has been shown that economic theories can be somewhat inferior. We always update economics from time to time. It is now, for example. in value of the economic theory that when the government makes a tax payment, it is actually spending money and making money for the economy when it has expenses. I just wondered this basic question: " How do we know that the booth is too thin and too expensive? A senator said that in any way?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u190	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. Of course, this is a large part of control science. We compare ourselves with other nations to try to put our finger on our pulse, whether or not we're shooting over the target, under the scope of the government. Then, of course, this endless debate between the left and the right is about the scope of the Kingdom. Hv. A senator here mentioned that I had talked about the outing of the gate of pay. In fact, I think the income side is much more extended, as it were. We're a little bit taxurized here as I entered my speech, if we see in what way we're put in the OECD countries, when the funding of the pension system has been taken into account. Then it comes back to separating public and business investments, and that's what I don't think we're putting enough energy into the picture and separating.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u191	President. I asked questions during the last term on the cost of legal projects because that's what we do here at the council. We agree with the law that a certain service should be performed or given them certain rights. When a person is granted certain rights, we assume that he or she will perform that service or guarantee them rights in some way. We can name courts, or police, in fact the simplest things. And when the project cannot even tell us the cost of the work we have decided to do, we are in serious trouble. But we can't say whether the income side and the reciprocal side are stretched or not large enough or what it is when we don't even know what the cost is and hardly what the rights are relative to what we've decided here in this council hall. I think it's a bit of a big deal. I think maybe we should start there because it'll lead us into the answer very easily, whether we're paying too much, taking too much, or whatever it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u192	Madam President. I want to thank you for your good answer. Me and what. A senator doesn't always agree, but that's exactly where we agree, that's what I'm talking about. Of course, it is absolutely unacceptable that we senators regularly take sides in the matter of rights without knowing what the cost is. I have regularly been there, and I myself have shared in several of these discussions. We've formed a law on public finances, which makes as strange an extramarital as that of the so - called tax grants, which, of course, is all very different in budgets today as was suggested in the legal process at the time. While it is true on one side that we cannot plan a way for members of the Parliament what the cost of the various rights we are taking in well - intentionedly - it is absolutely minimal to know the cost of approval. In this regard, I fully agree with it as a matter of course. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson said just now.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u193	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator before the talk and must say that there were some things that surprised me because we do not necessarily share our thoughts when it comes to politics, except when it comes to money. Party dog. A senator speaks of the Peasant away, and I've got a sense of humor, perhaps because I view it as a constant public service. But I cut it down, at the beginning of my speech. The senator, who spoke of the number of members of the Board of Directors who are now going to transfer as a result of reviews at the Council of Government, apparently, in a great catch on Friday night, and the workers heard of it each one at a press conference at the Karvalss on Sunday. I understand that there's a sort of post-traumatic help available at the Board of Directors these days where people are trying to figure out where they work. I was only looking at the budget in this regard. The financial bill, I didn't make it through the entire Ministry, it turns out there's a 19.8% rise in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. There is a 9.7% increase in the management of the marine espionage and 42.9% increase in the Ministry of Presidency. Transport management has an increase of less than 10% between years, etc. It's, I think, two different departments. It's the Ministry of Justice, which will remain unchanged unless all human rights are going down to the Ministry of Presidency, and the Ministry of State, which also stands as good as possible. I want to ask you why. A senator may be asking if we are talking about what he has warned us about, i.e. ... thatthebod is going into the hands of the existing government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u194	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists, and I think we understand things the same way. It's the kind of growth I'm speaking against. It's probably kind of automatic. Any major weight in government activity is one or another important, even absolutely necessary. But like other things, we must allow ourselves to criticize them and say, " Can we do better? ' Can we get more for the same money? Can we even get more for less money? What is e.g. with the digital solutions the current government is working on? I wondered: Can reducing waste time and simplify and making the work of public workers more efficient? Could it be reasonable to add? Even if there are other areas in which we must have the courage to go back, it may be wise to improve. And I'd like to say, in relation to the position of the employees who don't know where to come to work, that it's naturally amazing after two months of government leaders' talk. You refused to believe this for a long time, and this must be a bit of a twist and a bit of a joke when president of BHM reminds me that it was, showed up and described that a group of government employees was completely out of the air. But with regard to the discussion on the Bolstrut, it is so self - activity. It's in many monitors. I have, for example. much criticism of the extraterrestrial activities that are completely overexcited, which is indicated in both directions. Those in charge say, "Hey, this is just the rule. [[The president calls.]] Then we'll stand here and set the rules and say, "Hey, this patrol will only be injected.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u195	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter, but I think this marvelous increase to the Council ahead is not necessarily due to an increase in standard values - and so on. It may also be that the efficiency of the work force of the same categories is being met right now as such. ... orI don't know how many there are, and it's going to be so unfortunate that it's not going to be on real jobs, but it's going to go to the trouble it's creating. There seems to be no complete perspective on the project, created in the shelter of the night just prior to the first weekend of a vacation. You wonder if we are going to see an enormous waste in the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u196	Madam President. I'm afraid the answer to that question is why. A senator at the end of the appointment of the waste that is imminent for this particular operation is yes. I haven't had a chance to dive in the numbers, but I'm gonna go for it. The budget does this because these figures and their changes, of course, are very different. If this was the price of making one cabinet of Ministers to keep this marriage to three parties, even though you're on high ice talking in that tone, it's quite tall and could be considerably higher than the helicopter money that ministers placed in the open election for their own election campaigns.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u197	A respectable president. I listened to a talk. A senator whose focus was on tax political and tax concepts was in connection with the financial bill available here. Then I thought that the theme and the core, and all the weight, of the Independence Party campaign, were two promises. On the other hand, it was lower taxes and, on the other hand, the big promise was to prevent left control. They are now serving as prime minister of the left green. That remains the promise of tax losses. When the government's treaty is challenged, it is true that in one place, even two places, the rate of taxation is reduced, in line with the development of government funds. I think everybody can understand that text that way. And when you look at the section on the revenue of the state under which taxes are to be heard, there is no evidence that taxes, not one word, were not addressed to potential tax institutions that would be considered, etc. I'd like to ask the senator, because he's obviously tired of this bill and maybe seen something I've missed, but if not, how does he control this silence of taxation?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u198	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I think the short answer, so I'll start with, is that there really aren't any tax reductions planned for a predictable future. We'll probably see someone like that, the discussion begins at the third assembly of this election season and suggestions to the fourth if not all of it exploded at the time. I don't think that meaning is a great deal behind the tax reductions mentioned by this huge premise that is some song of some sort "jail free card" to use a word from the board game, with the permission of the president. There will be no tax reductions. I'm sure there'll be some moves, but it's going to be a complete swamp film, I'm completely convinced, unfortunately, because I think we'll just have to look for ways to reduce the total taxation in Iceland. It's pretty high, and then I'm not saying we have to be bloody up against our shoulders and cut down the various government servants, but we have to go over how we can handle the money better. Can we get more for the same coin or even more service for less money? I'm just not sure how I'm going to get an example of how to move to Sweden, where joint replacement measures were carried out at three times the price of what was offered here in Reykjavík at the same time. It is obvious that preventing a left control was mainly in the nose of our friends in the Independence category, but what turns to lower taxes - I think they really meant it and they think it would be reasonable and necessary. But then it didn't hold, and it didn't matter when it came to securing the chairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u199	A respectable president. I've found the discussion here tonight interesting, as it concerns the underlying fundamental complement, including reference. for a talk or an answer. paritaprevir Vala Helgadóttir about what it means when they talk about Böðiðða. I have come to believe that it should approach the subject in the way this has been shown, that the main challenge must be respect for the taxpayers' funds, that we are going to make the best use of money in order to achieve the most effective results in these systems we all want to protect and protect, to promote health care, education, etc. I agree that there are signs of danger and more than warning signs because we have a perfect period to look into. So I'm going to finish my speech by saying that I share my pessimism with a bang. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u200	Madam President. I am happy to hear the tone that happened to me. Senator. This has been so far removed from all discussions here during the past term that we have to handle the money taken from the homes of the country, individuals, and businesses. It just cannot be more than that there is room to do better when the total cost is over 1,200 billion. It doesn't stand to reason that it's all up to ten people everywhere. There is no need to be a bad meaning or ill at all. Things just develop in this way. Let us see how this term of taxation has developed since the law was given and is not long since. This is a relatively new law. It's just that it's starting to be a whole different story than the one that was approved at the end of 2015, everything else. We must regularly put ourselves in line to say, " Wait, what makes sense? ' Shall we do this? It was an enormous number of rural communities not many years ago that was running potato stores. I'm not sure there are many of them today. Life and things develop, and when we're handling 1,200 billion fees, we have to do this conscientiously and regularly and, of course, do so every year, but I think that there are lots of things that are not fully considered and that are not fully reasoned. It's just like the home that asks for insurance offers and moves between phone mates and so forth. Of course, this is only to increase the provision of good things and things that families want to do. That's how we're supposed to get to the state business. Then it becomes clear whether we will use the space to reduce the taxes I would most likely speak for or to add to the various community systems.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u201	A respectable president. I've asked for the highest. Minister of state and supreme. The minister of social and commercial markets is in a house. I understand that they responded to my request, and I would like to thank them very much for that. It is interesting to examine the government budget and the Constitution as well as the Constitution we have received. Many of this is a repeated matter that is difficult to expect for a government such as the center of a government to have done much in the past term. One thing caught my attention, one thing I've criticized for a long time and continued to do, which is the money spent on foreigners. I've caught myself agreeing with politicians who basically disagree with me in politics that we're spending too much money handling applications for international protection in Iceland. I, however, have other ideas on the solution to this problem, ideas I can't see about thinking about the government or anyone other than me and my party, and perhaps some others who have not recently had the opportunity to make some changes there. I believe it is the policy of the government itself that causes the cost of this money. In the policy of the government, which left greens, the last agreement was made when I knew, but they have, as I mentioned in my speech the other day, again gave the suicide party the keys to the Ministry of Management to their management and the policy as unchanged. So we may as well talk about independence policy, but that is government policy. It's mainly efficient. The evidence is that there is too much money involved in these developments. It is costly for both the state and the people in question, spiritual and worldly costs, resulting from the suffering caused by an enormous period of court treatment. The problem is that it is the government's idea of efficiency that causes things to take a long time because the only way to function in this series of issues that the government sees is to stop more people on the border, leads more people out of the country. The problem is, it's much more expensive. It's far more expensive than allowing people to stay and live on the land. I'll consider it better in my case from now on. One of the reasons for this is that, as the Minister of Justice of the previous government, much of the individuals applying for national protection have already been given international protection in another country. In fact, these groups are increasing proportionately. Although they may wonder why it is, why it is growing, there is all evidence that it is simply because of worsening circumstances, rapidly deteriorating conditions in certain European countries that provide most protection. There, Greece, Hungary, and to some extent Italy are the largest. This is how much of the individuals who come here and ask permission to be allowed to stay on the land. They don't ask for anything else. They have the rights of many other things because we are not that foolish, but they really want to be and create a future and life like all of us. The government has worked hard to get these people out of the country, refusing permission to be here with the argument that they have already been protected, and they are not in real need. People who are in real distress need help. A former minister of justice talked about this and used that expression extensively, and I have always felt very bad about it. People who have been protected in such countries as Greece and Hungary are truly in dire need, and this includes. these include children, infants, and people in a very difficult situation. But even if we are talking about a young, healthy man, he still faces a life - threatening situation in Greece or Hungary. In Greece, because of the terrible circumstances of scraps and dumps where people live because they have no access to their rights, according to their license. They just live somewhere in a dump, have no access to health care, do not get into a job market, have no housing, can do nothing, take a meal once a day at the church, if we take an example of the young man who has no problem. Clearly, he can be referred to anywhere, as well as to women and children. In Hungary, people are simply fleeing from violence on the part of the State itself, from the police to the huge discrimination, systematic discrimination, and prejudice on the Hungarian government. Before I was elected to this assembly, I served as a spokesman for international protection and have been doing so in June 2009 and in the full - time ministry since 2014. More than one and two of my clients from Hungary have been given international protection in Hungary, with permanent physical injuries, even with permanent disability caused by police abuse, because of damage caused by the Hungarian state, physically. These people are in trouble. They're looking here because it's in trouble. It's not because it's just such a good weather, it certainly isn't. I'm just gonna go over how things are done and how I think they should be done, for the benefit of everyone, for the benefit of the people, and for the benefit of a government fund. I'd like to first mention that, according to the budget and the data we've received, without my checking in the details, I see no better than that in 2020, 4.3 billion went into foreign affairs, including 3.4 billion in what's called, I don't know what's under there, candidates for international protection, 3.4 billion. In 2020 a number of 654 people applied for protection on the website of the European Environment Agency. That's 6.5 million each. What happens when an individual arrives here for international protection, shows up at Keflavík Airport, goes to the police or to security guard and says, "Good morning, I'm a fugitive, can you help me?" Thus, under international law, an application for international protection has been submitted and must be done. In general, the application for international protection should be submitted so that an interview with the relevant person is interviewed and the case will be examined to see if the fugitive is from his own country. He is asked about circumstances in his home state, personal circumstances, and general circumstances, and he is being asked a lot of data and, in many cases, a very professional study of the circumstances in his own country and how it fits in the history and other aspects of his life. However, there is a record, and I repeat the record, in the law of foreigners, to deny the matter of physical treatment. This actually means dismissing the case, dismissing the application. The person is never asked why he or she is a fugitive. Rather, there is a lot of money and time and energy to find out if he can't be sent anywhere else. There are two main ways in which it is used, and it is a law of foreigners. For a-a-dong 1st. 36 st. Is God a God of Peace? No. 80/2016, gives us permission to show people where they have already been protected, in fact, to speak of active international protection, which can truly be debated in the case of Greece and Hungary. There's a warrant for sending people back, where they have been given protection or a permit as a fugitive. These are sometimes referred to as a daily language. These are mainly individuals, as I said earlier, who come from Greece and Hungary and have been given international protection but are in a worse position than they were before they were protected. This is because during the application procedure, the assistance of various relief agencies taking great responsibility in these countries, including the United Nations Refugee Organization, the Red Cross, and other relief organizations, will be completed. This support, both on the part of the State and on the part of many relief organizations, will be concluded when the person is in possession of a local resident card because, according to the book, the general social network in this country should receive what is just a collapse. In the c-mer 1.mg. 36 st. is another authority to direct people to another European country on the basis of a team called the Dublin Community and Iceland being involved in the Schengen arrangement. I guess there's one of the most insane things that the European Union has ever thought of, and then I mean not only from a humanitarian point of view but also from a costly point of view. It began with a contract called the Dublin Protocol. The rules require which European countries are responsible for the management of applications for international protection. This is before people are protected, this is when someone comes to Europe, survives the RHIB trip from Turkey after fleeing e.g. Syria, arrives in Italy or Greece, applying for protection. The person's prints are taken and people fall below 13. The commitmental order which requires that an individual enter the national boundaries in an irregular manner is responsible for the treatment of an application for international protection. It is also common for people to be sent back on the basis of the Davids' Order because they have been given visas into the Schengen area from that state, and these may apply, for example. Germany, France, or Spain, that is common, sometimes Norway, Sweden. Finally, if a person has already applied for protection in another European country - this is still such a garbage company, this is not the main rule, although many may think so - then they should be sent back there no matter what the result of that application was. If Norway has refused protection and continues to go to Iceland, it is permitted to send him back to Norway, no matter what happens to him afterwards. So these are the sources that the Foreign Institute and Department of Foreign Affairs, the government, have to deny an audience, deny that their application will be applied for treatment. These squares take an enormous amount of time, and when things like this take a long time, it costs more money. That's for a lot of reasons. This is especially because people have human rights, some basic rights that are even guaranteed by the Order of Dublin. In Dublin, when any other nation in Europe is responsible for a global protection application, there are deadlines that are valid. If a foreign agency finds out that Germany is responsible for the treatment of an application because the person received a visa, the Foreign Institute will send a request to Germany for reimbursement. There is a bicker who accepts that request, and he has three months to answer that request. In countries such as Italy and many others, where pressures are high, countries have taken the initiative not to respond to these requests. This means that after three months it is considered acceptable. This means that, in the worst cases, where it is most natural to take the case for material treatment and to stop this nonsense, a foreigner sometimes needs to wait for three months, just wait until that deadline comes out. While people are waiting in a room somewhere at the Keflavor airport, staring at white walls, even living in rooms with people of another ethnic background who are also desperate for a long journey, people from all kinds of situations, with all kinds of background, piled together. It doesn't take much ideas to imagine what problems can arise in such situations, except for the sheer amount of limited service and assistance and support that these individuals receive and other problems that I do not plan to spend my precious time in enforcing here. It's gonna cost you money. While people are waiting for the three months, they are in government facilities. They must not make a living, so they must feed and receive food money. I think it was 2,700 bucks. Last week, when I knew to cover everything, even a bus ride to town that I think is just gonna cost more than that if you're gonna go both ways. They don't get the streets to leave e.g. to Reykjavík, unless they are interviewing at the National Institute of Iceland or to a doctor. But it's all at the cost of the government. Meanwhile, lawyers at the Foreign Institute are working on the case, lawyers at the Red Cross make sure that the U.S. National Institutes do not break or break less on the rights of these people, and there is certainly no need to look after them. Under the influence of these difficult circumstances, people are in a bad spiritual condition. Of course, there is a need for psychological services that the State needs to pay and even emergency services, even going to the hospital, even more than once at that time. And there I'm just talking about some minimum time, three months. What happens after these three months is that the National Institute of Iceland interviewes the person and says: "Hey, Germany is responsible for your application, and we're sending you to Germany, how do you feel about that? The subject explains that he received a revelation in Germany and does not want to go there or, for example, there. that he has decided that it would be better for him to come to Iceland because he has a special education in some fishing field. I've had one such client. But the system doesn't care about that, the system doesn't care who you are, what you want or what you're capable of, what language you speak, what are the chances of you being able to adapt to society. The system does not ask. The system is just an agreement between the states to throw people between us like a bunch of bumblebees. They're not people, so there's no question about it. But the person says, " No, I don't want to go back to Germany or Italy or Greece or Hungary if they've been protected there. ' This interview takes three hours. There is a representative of the National Institute of Iceland, a general lawyer in full pay, and there is a lawyer from the Red Cross there, an interpreter. Interpretation services, I even forget to mention her, she's very expensive. There is an expensive service that is needed in these matters. All this cost, in my opinion, is unnecessary. After this interview and research has been made, the National Institute of Iceland makes a decision, saying: "We're going to send you to Germany, no matter what. It may have been four months, even more. The person does not want this and charges foreign cases. Then, more lawyers will accept the case. The lawyer at the Red Cross continues his work, and he continues to present himself to the Icelandic State, with all due respect to his not being allowed to work, including the laws and the rules. Then comes a verdict from the Exhibit Committee of Foreign Affairs. Similarly, a hearing with the NGOs takes some time, naturally. There's gonna be some data to collect. In fact, people do not get an interview in these matters, but in other matters, they may receive an interview from the Board of Overseers. The matter needs to be thoroughly investigated. The NTSB will then publish its decision and tell us that he is also negative. Maybe it's seven, eight months. People have a very short delay in trying to handle the case before court, they would like to be on the land while the court is serving and will receive an unsuspecting review in these matters. A lawyer is on trial for judgment. Then the police go to the police to take the person out of the country, and the police start working on it, and more employees spend money on this. It's been 12 months. But now we have a law at 2 mg. 36 st. the law of foreigners, which says that if specific reasons recommend it - I am not reading directly of the law, which states that if specific reasons recommend it, that is exactly what the law says - then - it is not authorized, it is mandatory - the government will take the matter into account. This should also be done if 12 months have passed since the application is submitted as long as delays in the case are not on the responsibility of the candidate himself. This is not the responsibility of the candidate himself, it's the responsibility of the government because it's just a mess. Breaking people's rights is a real trouble, it takes time. There are also other reasons why cases take a long time. The case has taken 12 months, the person who has been fully represented by the State throughout this time. The case has been headed for judgment, and the deadline has passed. A foreign agency protests: "No, he was responsible; he wasn't taken out of the country because he didn't answer the phone when the police called him. Then it's also going into lawsuits and something. For example, if the case goes well with the person, the matter is repeated because the deadline has passed, it goes back to the National Institute for Material Therapy. How much money have we spent in those 12 months trying to get the person out of the country? When we have individuals from Greece, Hungary, Iceland does not send to Greece or Hungary on the basis of the Order of Dublin, notice that, just individuals who have received their case available in these countries have been protected there. People who are still in an application procedure under the Order of Dublin are actually in a better situation than these people. In part, this states in the United States that circumstances in these countries are utterly unacceptable. People have been asked who come from these states into their own country. The application has been completed. They have come to the conclusion that the individual is a fugitive, a fugitive, even with a certificate that says: "I am a fugitive, subject to the refugee contract. There's nothing to ask about this anymore. In fact, we have a law on foreigners in 47 C.E. g., and I'm just going to read it out, with the permission of a president, because I've always found it so interesting that the government refused to use this law. I've tried it in some cases, but I didn't have an independent legal life long enough to get a judgment on it, since I was elected at a council before I reached it. Maybe somebody else will get it. But the law is as follows, by permission of the president: ◯47. par. The value of foreign decisions on fugitive status. A foreigner who has been given international protection or travel card for refugees in other countries than Iceland should be considered a fugitive with a permanent home in that country. The same is true of a person who has been confirmed to be inmate. The first decision of his status as a fugitive or a stateless person should be made only if the decision is incorrect or for other reasons. This law would simply allow the Foreign Institute to issue these matters in 48 hours or less, grant a living permit. When people are brought here with a lot of hope and optimism, they are often just ◯reddedi': I'm going to start my life now. But it's taken 12 months, people break down, completely disabled. It's a complete, pardon the sleigh, the ◯lose-lose-lose-system that we have. What would we save? I'm going to ask for information in a formal way. This is not only an inhuman policy and a legal error at best but also an enormously costly, enormously expensive situation against an applicant coming here from Syria, going into chemical therapy, and getting a position accepted, can go into a job market and just start his life and become part of the community and economy like the rest of us, can go shopping, become a part of this community. What's interesting about this matter is in 2 mg. 36 st. It also speaks of specific reasons to recommend this, and in comments to the bill, it is said that a person's case in a particularly sensitive position should be addressed and that this has been repeated several times during the assembly. So it's the lawgiver's will to do this, that people who are in a more sensitive position get to be here. We have a family with a baby baby born in Iceland. It is four months old when the government completes its decision that the family should be returned to Greece on the metal dumps. What's forgotten a bit about sending people back into this situation is that we talk about not having access to a house, not having access to a job market, and anything so dangerous about not having access to a house we don't understand in Iceland in our privileged heritage, is that when you don't have a home, you don't have a safe home. You do not live in security from violence, since you are taken away from things. There are no safes on the junkyard. A small baby, a married couple with a tiny baby baby. How in the world are they going to protect this infant from lawbreakers, from violence, and from other practices in these areas? The police in these countries have no opportunity to maintain law and order in those areas, apart from the fact that this often does not exist in Greece. One of my clients once told me that he called a police officer for a knife fight, and the police said to them, "Don't ruin the trailer." Just don't mess up the trailer. Let's send a baby to this situation. Send out women who have been sexually abused all their lives and suffer permanent damage to this situation, using a reference to some law in Greece that says: "Yes, she has the right to live somewhere. " There is no way to secure it or money, except that she does not speak the language and does not know where to look. Is this not an individual in a more sensitive position? We have another reason, except for the circumstances in these countries, to take these matters for physical treatment. The questions I would like to direct to a minister are: Do the minister have any ideas about ways to get used to this class? Get down the $3.4 billion on the budget we're holding? There's no way to see there's anything to cut this much down, but it can't be done. You can't control the number of people you're looking for here. You can just control how we handle it. We've decided to do it this way, and it's only very expensive for everything and for everyone. The prosecutors of the Independence Party have now given a threefold bill, and I can see no better than that they intend to do it again, which, in particular cases where people have been protected in other countries, will be excluded from the obligation to handle material treatments. In its first edition, it was very clear and specific. Now, there's been some compromise, possibly because the left guy is worried that maybe it's just some horrible thing that's been trying to do, because it's that. However, the compromise states that these matters can be taken for material management and that these people can be given the status of a fugitive in this country and four years of residence and all that. However, it should be considered whether there is a basis for granting a humanitarian license, a patent on the basis of humanitarian thinking, which would sound extremely good if people are in this situation. But a patent on the grounds of humanity is a year. It is not a work permit and it takes no less time to give such an application than to check whether the person is in the affected situation or why the application should be taken into account. [[The president calls.]] So my questions to the minister are: Does it mean to stop spending the public money of Iceland on adding to the torment of people who have lived through violence and insecurity and spent all their life? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u202	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Kristínardóttir Anna Kristirdóttir Gunnarsdóttir's daughter has discussed a delicate case here. It does so out of some knowledge, for it has worked, as we have seen, in this regard. She said here and gave this so-called Dublin convention a complete drop score, called it the stupidest agreement the European Union had ever made. But this is the agreement that Europe has agreed on to work in. It is true that the cost of this party has increased greatly. We have about 3.4 billion, apart from the cost of the Foreign Institute and the NTSB of Refugees, and it has grown. We now have the problem that, despite the fact that we have a situation called Covid, we are looking for a number of inmates. It is not so simple that we can just let people stay here and say that they have no expense. [[The president calls.]] Of course, we have obligations to the people we receive, and we need to achieve this system's efficiency and to be able to use this budget, no one is talking about lowering this budget, to build up the lives of the people who are staying here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u203	Thank you very much. Ministers are eager to come up in a pit and answer my questions. I'm glad that he says the words "I love you" and "I'm sorry,'he says that the European Union agreed on this cooperation. Indeed, the Dublin work has been imposed on many European nations, and many of them have complained about it. In fact, that was a warning about possible consequences right from the start. The bigger nations have yearned to maintain this agreement because it is suitable for them. What's so interesting about the Dublin Union business is that in the Dublin Protocol and everywhere in it is referred to as solidarity or what is called the European Union's Compatibility. But the situation is that the situation exists among the northern states, pushing the problem, pushing people's problems to the edge. It is clear that if there was real solid solidarity in Europe and Europe, they would take equal responsibility and would take this project to a real solidarity then it wouldn't be a problem, we wouldn't even be talking about it. What I would also like to mention is that although this is an agreement we have said yes to participate in it, there is no one, there is no state that is offended by not being sent to the candidate for international protection. We have no obligation to do that, not according to the Order of Dublin, but according to our own policy. We always have a warrant, and that's clear in the Daffir Code and the Icelandic law, in fact, about duty in Icelandic law, another story. In the Daffir Directive, government clearance is referred to as a case for the chemical treatment if necessary, and that is very clear. These issues, which are one of the most serious today, the status of Greece, the status of Hungary, are not under the Dublin Protocol because the applications have been completed by these people. It is based on Icelandic law and government policy. We have no obligation, and in my opinion we do not even have the authority to send these people back.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u204	A respectable president. Of course, we are discussing a very delicate group of subjects, and I don't feel that this is the case at the moment. A senator is talking about the agreement between our neighbors and the nations that we prefer not to be worth the paper and that we don't have to be at some agreement, it's not a problem. I think that's a lot of simplicity. Of course, this is a specific problem, and it is to be dealt with in a similar way as it is the process we have been trying to follow, and the rules here are least harder than in other countries we compare with. They were asked whether there were some means of saving. I reiterate that it is, in itself, not some goal of achieving significant savings in these groups, but much more the approach of these matters so that we do not find ourselves in the delicate situation we have always had and why. A senator was so fine here, judging from his experience, where people live between hope and fear for far too long. We need to try to resolve these matters effectively so that the table is clean in that respect and that we can then, to the person we are accepting, fulfill our obligation to offer them decent circumstances, and bring out those who are citizens of the Icelandic community. This must be the objective of us all, and this is the goal I will have in this, that we can do this in this way. We have a growing group here now, despite Covid, and this is because it is difficult to carry out the results of the institutions of this story and that people return to the country where they have previously been protected. [[The president calls.]] That is a problem we face today, adding a little bit to the problem we have. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u205	Thank you very much. Minister again for the answer. Again, a minister uses a word that arouses my interest, and it has become the efficiency that I also mentioned in a talk earlier. Then I'd like to direct another question to the highest level. Minister. The bill that has been presented three times and that I'm no better than standing to reimpose, as I said, is about that these matters can't be taken for physical treatment than to consider whether people should be granted a warrant on the grounds of humanity. There is no efficiency there. It's gonna take as long. It is as difficult a trip, a difficult process, the same points that need to be considered as nothing else, but that it will take as long. The only thing that changes is the status of people after the trial, if it works. It may be less likely to be, but it will cost Iceland just as much and as much time as it does today. But people are less likely to be, and if they get to be, then they have less rights, shorter times, and not professional rights, which are naturally strange. [[The president calls.]] So my question may be, How is this going to improve efficiency?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u206	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A loving member of the council for the deep and good and understanding and fair consideration of this sect. He spoke of it with great depth, and it was interesting to listen. I also insist on the highest word. Minister here earlier that there was a lack of efficiency in the system. Of course, I know the highest. A minister meant nothing wrong, but I just want to mention it here that just when we're talking about these matters, we're really going to stop talking about them all the time. We're always creating some system, and we start using words like ◯encing, when we might rather try to identify ourselves with the people who are looking for here, who are running around at home, miserable situations, and who want to live here. We should also do a little more than ask ourselves, not just what these things all are, but that in the vast majority of cases, we're accepting people who can make a good impression here, enriching our community, paying off their taxes and duties, and actually making Iceland better by me. There's been a lot of lack of the fact that this system is human enough, I think. This may be because we like to talk about it, and of course we need to do it when we think about the legal aspects and things, and we usually approach them as some sort of giant system, but forget to think that there are people in there. I think it would be nice somehow to try to imagine what we would want, what we would do if we were in this situation. But I wanted to ask you what. A senator, because he handled matters so well earlier - that's what the board of directors says: ▪ Aukka needs confidence and transparency in the decision making by the foreign authorities. - It's the government's policy to do that. And based on the knowledge that the senator has, it would be interesting to have just a short answer: How might it be best to increase confidence in the system?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u207	I want to thank you. A senator very much for an answer and a good question. You see, I think there's a contradiction in this sentence. I don't think it can be at the same time that the government's treatment of foreigners and trust if there's trust in being on the part of the public, where I believe that it has been in years and years in the back of these cases -- and I know how it is, I know what reality is, I've sat with these people in the interviews, I know everything that the transparency should show. There is no doubt in my mind that the Icelandic people would never accept this, it would not have confidence. So I think it's inexpensive, but I'm really excited to see, I think I just put it that way. There was something else. A senator mentioned that made me happy, that we are talking about people. We're not talking about curses, we're not talking about anything else. We forget that people are not a burden on communities. Society are people. People become part of society, first of all, if possible, to be part of society. People who are part of society are active in society. They often do their jobs, or they don't, they make money somewhere since they buy goods and services. Refugees go to the movies like the rest of us. It's going shopping like the rest of us. It eats food like the rest of us. It is part of the community and the economy. It's not a burden. Allowing people to become part of the community is not a direct cost. There is, however, a great direct cost in carrying them out of the country by force.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u208	A respectable president. Thank you so much for this. I agree with this as a continuation of my words that we must think of these as people, and we must understand that these people, like all other people, good and acceptable people who are looking for them, of course, are of great value. In his above - mentioned speech, the senator spoke of the psychological consequences of waiting for people to answer questions about what will happen to the future. It might be nice just to get a short answer about it - to try to put us in a little bit better on how people feel in the uncertainty of entering this system and having to fall in here, wait for the smell, often knowing that the smell will not turn out the way they hoped.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u209	President. That's a good question, and thank you. A senator for the record. I've got a very good example, actually, there are a lot of cases, but it happened a little bit interesting last summer. In 2018, a panel of foreigners concluded that the situation in Hungary, the situation of refugees, is not open to humans, and is eliminated by the decision of the U.S. National Institute of England to lead people back there. This happens again in 2019 C.E. In 2020, a group of people in Iceland - I want to make petals with my fingers - who had received international protection in Hungary. These were 10, 15 people, something like that, I don't have an exact number on my hands, who shared with people with education, really smart and cool people, and they had come to Iceland because they had heard that Iceland was a human rights state. [[The president calls.]] I'm not sure that a large percentage of these individuals, most of which fell on the 12 months'schedule, which is sour because, first of all, we are not given a court order on this project - are employed today, but they were on the day of their arrival. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u210	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Arndís Anna Kristínardóttir's Gunnarsdóttir is very, very fond of this good conversation. I am so happy to see immigrants'language and refugees as strong as they are in this council. We all know that in the coming years, there will be an increase in refugees. Because of climate change, and it's not likely that we'll see much more people looking for a better life in other countries than they do today. Perhaps most of the factors are heard as easily as possible. A member of the local state minister, but I was moved to participate in the discussion too, for it is, of course, under the legal field of immigrants and refugees in my Ministry, including the U.S. Contract agreements about how people arrive in the country. It's where I only want to come into the discussion because I believe that when people are in this country, it's absolutely a moral obligation to try to make it easier for people as much as possible to get into the community. It is also our responsibility to increase our understanding of the situation of these people, to increase our understanding of where they come from, from how they come from, and also from culture, so that they can be more adaptable, and we can avoid prejudice toward those people. Time's up, chief. President. I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u211	President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. This may be an example showing clearly the problem of the government. You see, this is one of the things I saw in the government covenant that interests me. It was that emphasis I heard here, too, in the words of the highest. A minister of what I have thought to be neglected for years in Europe and Iceland as another place, and always viewed as a pet project or something we can think of some time later when someone has time. It's a adjustment, and there's an internalisation of refugees into society, the effective adjustment of it. There's a lot to do in helping people and helping them become part of the community, and then I'm not just talking about how you look up apartments on your rent list and stuff but just how you live in this community and how you communicate and stuff. It's a key to getting people to have any chance of saving themselves in society, so I'm really happy to see it, and I hope to the highest. Ministers will take this with great ambition, the things of the government covenant. However, this government's very problem may be that if it is the highest. The Minister of State intends to continue the government's policy of destroying people as much as possible before finally getting the conclusion that they will be here, they will be even more broken and less equipped to adapt to the community when they arrive on board the highest level. Department of Social Affairs and Employment Services. We all know that it can be very difficult to concentrate when you feel down. This may surprise some, but once people have become extremely rejections, and the hard rejections involved in negative decision made by the Foreign Institutes of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs, the final positive conclusion is one year or six months later, to this population a shock. [[The president calls.]] This may result in suicidal thoughts. It's not some good news. [[The president calls.]] It's not on a person's mind, so I hope this cooperation will work out.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u212	Madam President. I might just want to say in the end, and ask for good cooperation with what. A senator, that in a government contract, it refers to the design of a whole - souled policy in the affairs of foreigners where the emphasis may be more on just what I came in before and before. A senator agreed, i.e. that people have further opportunities to adapt to be competent members of the community, to active participation, not only in society, but also in a workforce as part of the community. It also states in the Treaty that it aims to clear the provision of provision for the release of living things based on employment participation. These are projects that, of course, must work together with the labour market partners, but I think it's a very good indication of where we need to go to try to improve the adjustment and involvement of these people in the community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u213	President. Thank you very much. Minister again before the counter-sponsored. I like to hear that a minister is going to take this case with ambition. I want to remind you of what he mentioned in his first answer, which is certainly something that I could have said in my speech if I had had more time and will probably do again. There is no evidence to suggest that in the years to come, the number of people traveling around the world is dwindling. On the contrary, there is all evidence that international transport will increase. It is not only because of war or because of poverty or otherwise, it is also because of climate change and all kinds of factors that we have no control, and it doesn't matter what we think of them. Therefore, it makes no sense to make us, our country, and our nation, ready to deal with it, instead of ignoring it, closing doors, and closing windows, because it does not work. This is not a temporary problem. [[The president calls.]] This is a challenge that has come to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u214	Madam President. Just a year ago, we Icelanders were in the deepest crisis we've seen in years and the highest contractions for about 100 years. Just a year ago, there was a complete collapse on the state funds. Uncertainty was rampant in the economy, and unemployment reached new heights. It is, therefore, a joy to see here in this financial bill that the status of the state's funds is considerably better at this point than are those who feared to hope, and the situation is somewhat strong on an international scale. Since the economy is on its way, surely it should be a cause for rejoicing. There is a brighter economic outlook than when the last budget was submitted. The viral epidemic has done better for the economy than many dared to hope. Iceland's employment agency has published national interest, which is the basis for budgetary and financial policies. It shows that there is dynamic economic growth ahead. So next year, it is predicted to be about 5.3%, but it is driven by increased exports and by personal consumption. Of course, we hope it will work. The Lab's prophecy is quite consistent with Iceland's recent economic forecasts. There is good news, and there is a positive entry into the terms of the money and for the homes of the country. The response of the bond market is a good measure of how he looks at the bill. They are positive, and that is an important message. According to a report on the Department of Economic and Economic Networks, with a powerful reversal of the economy, the State's debt will be much better. There are now an estimated 200 billion dollars in debt. below the end of the next year, but a financial programme and a student of about 34% of GDP was expected instead of 42%. In international comparison, a 34% debt ratio is not high. For example, in Italy the debt ratio is at present 156%. The World Cash Fund estimates public debt as the share of land production increases by 17.8% in Western countries due to the virus epidemic. In the United States, Spain, Britain, and Canada, debt increased most. In the United States, the increase was less in most other nations, and in the years to come, the debt is well below the average of Western countries. Of course, that is very positive. Plans the fund's debt to rise by 9.7% because of a pandemic. The World Bank does not have direct suggestions on the extent of public debt and does not necessarily consider the fund to be a cause for cuts. That, of course, is positive. Finally, the fund in its recent report predicts that the recovery of the government will be significantly better in Iceland than in other Western countries from 2023 ◯226. If we go back to the budget bill, we'll find that the product of the state's budget goes up to about 120 billion dollars. Between this year and the next, it appears that the income of the state's budget will be 66 billion higher in 2022 than the budget planned for last spring. As we have seen, the wealth will be expelled at 169 billion dollars. Set down next year on the bill. Earlier, more than 200 billion palaces were expected. However, there is not much extra space to go to, but there is a need to be careful increase in spending as this reduces the level of money and will increase in in inflation if there is too much cost. The budget must be supported by the financial policies and financial policies of the Federal Bank. We have not missed that a money conference committee has been raising interest. Again, discipline in the state's affairs must be maintained and the situation carefully monitored, especially if the circumstances change. I agree with that with the highest. Secretary of finance that improving the state's position is an ongoing task. It is now assumed that the land production will be 110 billion higher next year than it was predicted a year ago, and a better economic outlook will be made to a much better budget for government funds. In fact, land production is even higher than in the optimism of a financial project for the 2021/2025 that was introduced a year ago. Madam President. Next time, I'd just like to step on individual lawsuits in the bill. There are many things to take, however, and you have not been able to learn everything in these matters. But I'd like to involve more specifically in the affairs of older citizens. V.E.G. In his speech here, the minister of finance said that improving the quality of a pensioner was a priority. This is a very important message to a growing population. People who are 67 years of age and older are now about 45,000, and 10,000,15,000 are heading faster into this group. So we're talking at least 60,000 people who focus on government policy. It is heartwarming to learn that the microenergy system is to be simplified and less efficient. During the New Year's season, there will be a special increase of 1% in terms of disability and rehabilitation in addition to the total percentages of social security rates in budget 2022. About 800 million. K. will be spent to improve the improvements of micro- and sensibilities to future funding. I'm especially happy about this and revising the disability reform system and the rights of a pensioner. The number of older citizens who are concerned about their financial situation increases. That has even been true. published in a survey made four years ago by Reykjavíkurburg, the Ministry of Health, and the older citizens' National Association. At a hearing two years ago, the Félag of senior citizens gave careful suggestions on how to improve the rate of the worst in this group and for the suggestions to be given. It is realistic, and it is important that they be observed in the coming revision. I also remind you that in the spring months of 2019, the Minister of Social Affairs appointed a group of members who discussed the interest of elderly ones in order to gain a better perspective on the different circumstances in which older citizens live and to offer suggestions on how to improve their situation. The older citizen's money took the initiative that the staff were appointed. And so to put it this way, these substances have already had work to do. According to OECD figures, there is a lower percentage of national production and wages in Iceland for the payment of pension than in countries such as Britain, the Netherlands, Denmark, and Sweden. Icelanders generally go to pensions later than the citizens of other countries, and there is much greater and greater employment initiatives in Iceland than in other countries. In this country, there is a 50% employment program, which is only about 20% of the age group in Sweden. Comparison with the above countries shows that Iceland differs from an active pension age. Icelanders usually take a pension one to two years after they reach a public pension age. However, in the other four countries, people usually go to pension some time before the official age is reached. Thus, Icelanders usually spend much less years than usual in other countries, and wages from both parts of the pension system usually begin later on here. The average country's age is lower, so the public system's pension load is still very low in comparison. This emphasizes that governments have the means to deal well with older citizens. This is the generation that we most owe to today's general well - being, a generation that broke out in poverty with hard work and hard work, a generation that is only asking for justice and having the privilege of living in decent terms. Mr. President. It is of utmost importance to me that these factors will be viewed in the past through a review of the pension system and the pension system. The bill tells us that there will be a $200,000 rise in the income of professional pensioners. This year, about the year, will double to 2.4 million per year. This is an important step in the right direction, and I appreciate it. A person who is 67 years of age or older who wants to improve his employment may then have 200,000 dollars. a month before you lose your pension. According to the bill, the cost is estimated to be 540 billion. K. In fact, I think it's considerably lower because tax revenues increase with increasing employment support and that taxes, along with well - paying taxes, will make up the cost. The director of the senior civil society has reported in the media regarding this double income target that there are relatively few who can take advantage of it. He says a lot of pensioners live under the minimum pay. Of course, this is unacceptable, and one of the things that will be considered in a planned review of the rights of a pensioner. The chairman has also said that it is a large percentage that does not take advantage of this job discount. He says there are a lot more people who can take advantage of the vacation markets of pensions. In fact, I think the Chairman's right, that's a project that needs to be attacked and watched at work that lies ahead. This should be kept in mind that studies among older citizens have shown that nearly everyone, or 97%, feels that it would be easier for those who are in pension age to be active in the job market. The older citizens' employment program brings them greater activity in the community. Increased activity contributes to the well - being and satisfaction of life and the more active older ones experience more joy in life. The entire administration and assembly must be made aware of this. We must be aware of the status, expectations, and attitudes of the elderly when it comes to employment and its positive effects on the well - being of older citizens. So here, as mentioned earlier, it is an important step to consider raising the income market for employment to $200,000. per month. If we look e.g. to the above surveys, I believe that the chairman of the older citizen's National Association has underestimated the importance of this increase in holidays. I think the rise in the holiday market on its own will make it possible for the number of people who see their advantage in making good use of this job discount. I'd also like to mention it here in this regard that I think it would be wise in the revision to consider seriously whether it could be more effective for old-age pensioners to combine the current holiday limit to one of the general credit marks. This would make it easier for older ones to give up their work for those interested in them. But only health matters are involved. Health contributions increase by 16.3 billion in the bill, and they are the largest single currency paid for promotion. The land hospital is the largest and most important medical facility in the country, as we know it. He has outstanding employees who often perform unselfish work under difficult circumstances and who are under intense pressure. A lot of discussions have developed about the hospital's problems. That problem has many roots. The point is, the hospital and its services are actually growing faster than financial laws assume. Interpretations of collective agreements have been made that have been difficult to assess, including a labour agreement with physicians in 2015. The agreement has been good for the health system, but cost factors have been underestimated. Of course, it is very important to have health care professionals working properly. In the local hospital, certain communities have had mold problems, and some employees have experienced chronic illness because of the problem. One of the biggest challenges to the hospital is that people cannot be helped if mold - related problems are present in the hospital's home and cause ill health in staff. That's why I think it's very important to work on it. Molding at the Land Hospital costs large sums of money each year, apart from the tremendous inconveniences it has caused to many employees there. But as far as hospitals are concerned in general, I think it takes more flexibility. The land hospital is primarily an emergency hospital. It is the very nature of the ministry that the hospital provides for it to be unpredictable. For this reason, it is not suitable to be on solid budget, and we know that an emergency reception will not shut down when funding is completed. Therefore, it is important in my mind that when it comes to financing, the hospital really has a degree of flexibility. As I mentioned, as we know, health - control has been tremendous. It will continue to increase over the next few years and decades as the nation's life span increases. If we are going to ensure an excellent health service in this country and for everyone, our health - care system must become much more efficient. The country is getting old, which means a lot more stress on the system. Older people 80 years of age and older need the highest health care. In addition, new health technology has called for an increase in cost. We must face the problem and ensure the long - term funding of the most important health facility in the country. I want a new health minister especially successful in his important work, and I know that there are many who look to him with eager anticipation that he will succeed in moving the hospital, especially the Hospital, for better care and better service, handling the design problems and many of the problems that have been involved in the hospital. Mr. President. At the end, I'd like to introduce only financial policy, a proposal for Congress, for the 2022 families26, which is discussed here with the budget bill. As a result, on page 12, the rural communities are under way. It shows that the debt of the rural community has increased from the current financial programme, which is clarified. of greater survival in 2020 than expected. As a proportion of GDP, growth in rural areas is quite a factor in the timeliness of the programme and the debt of the rural community is a concern. As we all know, society is rendering a very important service that is legal. Hence, it is important to try to meet our rural communities in the face of debt, for it is now rooted, in part, to the virus epidemic today. I'd like to mention at the end of the bill that there are about 13 billion people in my memory on climate issues. This is one of the great things that burn on the nations of the world today, i.e. The climate. In this regard, I would like to say that it is very important in my mind that there is some success in the measure of success because of what we put in this important category, that we can see pretty well what the results are of the financial resources we give in the seminary. This has been discussed within the budget and other matters for the government, that there is a need to improve the effectiveness and the monitoring of funds in general. Of course, when it comes to climate, it should be possible to show that the financing involved in this category is effective. Some of it has been vague in my opinion. By this bill, I think it's important to be equal. It is very important to me that taxes are not affected by those who earn less money. The High School of Economics (U.S.A.A.) surveyed this tax. That's where we even came from. it shows that the carbon tax can take on those who are less efficient and, in part, those living on the land. It's very unfortunate in my opinion, and I've spoken to it here that it's important to be kept in mind, that we find ways to level this tax product to the entire population. It's one of the taxes that attracts climate. Mr. President. Finally, I say that I have the expectations that the committee might look at these testimonials that I believe are very important. I know that it has been an interest within the budget panels to review carefully how this can be improved and, in effect, make better use of the funds to produce certain results when it comes to financing of important issues. This, of course, applies to other lawsuits. This is true of health care, for example. It is urgent that we make use of all the benefits, all the opportunities we have to improve our ministry. Part of it is in my opinion to negotiate with a private member for a certain service. For all this matters by the service level, that it is most excellent, and that it is practical for the treasure of the kingdom. Of course, that is to be the main theme. But there are a lot of things I haven't been through in this bill. Now the reviews to the budget committee and visitors are about to attend a meeting of the Committee. Of course, it will be fascinating to see what the speakers have to say about the bill. But the big news is that in this bill, the status of the state funds is considerably better, as I mentioned at the beginning, at this point than men feared to hope. Of course, it is a joy to see that the economy is on its way. We certainly hope that the future economic forecast, 5.3%, will succeed. It is vital that the government and the general country's homes succeed. Certainly, uncertainty still exists in e.g. the flu epidemics, of course, we hope that the uncertainty will not be as high as it was initially, just a year ago, when we saw the opportunity to go to the deepest crisis we've had in years and the greatest recession for 100 years, so there's good news in the economy, I'd say. Of course, we need to be on guard against inflation. The latening bank, and the financial conference committee, have been raising interest to address the existing inflation and inflation rates as well. It is very important that we be aware of this, since it can start a chain of events if we cannot keep the inflation low, which is not a good thing for us, especially the homes. Finally, Mr. President, I'd like to say that there are positive signs and hopefully they'll follow through. So this bill is positive, and hopefully it will help us to keep on growing to the point of improving our quality of life in the new year.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u215	A respectable president. We've been through many fields tonight, and I listened attentively to a word. An older citizen spoke of their position in society, expectations, social activity, and employment. I believe that this is where we are looking at a subject that really involves respect and respect, quality of life and happiness, and that it is for the benefit of society and the people themselves that they are able to share in the community in an active way. But because of him. A senator has been serving on a financial committee and has taken a seat on a full - scale committee, I wanted to ask him about these views, about the quality of life and respect, the effectiveness of society, from the people we discussed here earlier this evening, several members of Congress. People who have recently come to the country, refugees, refugees, refugees, they have different words for them, but I ask about these same people.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u216	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. If I understood why. A senator was right to compare what I said about respect for older citizens with their expectations and then again to those who seek international protection in this country. I think, of course, we're supposed to welcome those who are coming to the country, like code-cookers and those we've invited here. But I believe that we should follow the rule of what we've been doing and that we're following the neighboring nations we're looking at, in the North, so we're actually doing the same service as the rest of the North countries. [[The president calls.]] I think that's the point.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u217	A respectable president. I'm asking why. A senator because he has been very busy discussing the situation of refugees who are coming to the country and the discussion between members of Congress and the Supreme Court. Minister of state. I ask, What expectations does he have in the work of a new Minister of the Interior? Is he aware of the same policy in the United States or that we are drawing ashore, or what is the senator's viewpoint on this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u218	Madam President. I haven't discussed these matters in particular with the highest degree. Minister of state, but I expect him to follow the rule of action that is in force each time. In this regard, I remind you that we have accepted this commitment, e.g. The Cypher Code. I don't see anything unusual about her being carried out, and I don't see any inhumanity about it, if that's true. A senator may have been seeking that answer. This is, as shown in this discussion, a rule that the European nations have agreed to make, and we are to enforce our knowledge. I'm here at the conclusion that we're supposed to be in the same direction as the rest of the North countries. There are countries who have had a lot of experience with this group, a lot of experience, and a lot more experience than we do. That's why I don't see anything unusual about us following that line. [[The president calls.]] We are to provide neither better nor worse services than any other member of the North. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u219	A respectable president. I would like to catch the ball because older citizens were being talked about and there was this phrase echoed by the management personnel of the past few days: It's a priority to improve the interests of older citizens. I hope so. A senator may not take this lightly, but I find it a little curious to hear from him because he is the only member of the council who has been in both government and government opposition to what is left of this ideal period and during his last term, he gave inspired talks that the government was not doing so in many ways. Why should we believe today, a World of Congress, and so forth, that older citizens will now be able to improve older citizens when these groups now ruling in government, at least two of them, have remained uninterrupted on the 2013 policy plan and the third party remained in power with them for four years? Why should we believe that something will be better and more beneficial during this terms than those that have passed the past few years?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u220	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. This is because there is evidence in the budget bill that this group's interests are to be improved, and by this year the income market is going to be up to 200,000 dollars. per month. It is improving the quality of the people who have the ability and will to work on something, even though they are 67 years old. This system should then be reviewed. It is very important to me that we look at the work that has already been done, and I specifically mentioned in my speech, both from the 2019 social minister and from the older citizens of 2017. There are very good suggestions on how older people can be improved. [[The president calls.]] So I think there's evidence that this group should be greatly improved. [[The president calls.]] But this is the first step, I admit it, and it can be done better. We hope to see this in not so long.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u221	The president reminds us that the speech period has been reduced for one minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u222	A respectable president. It has been a priority to improve the interests of older citizens with relatively poor results over the past few years and even decades. Party dog. The senator has been ruling here for 26 of the last 30 years or so. Hv. A senator entered earlier that the job market was being raised. However, we do know that this is a tiny step for a small percentage of older citizens. Of course, the main issue is the breakdown of the pension system itself, which is much bigger and costs a lot of money to take in good - looking steps there. It may be appropriate to ask him why. A senator whether he will use himself for a thorough review of this deficiency system, which both older and poorer citizens speak a lot about and complain a lot of times and have done for many years, that there will be some real step that would certainly bring up a decent settlement for that group.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u223	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. Yes, I will, of course, put it to work, and I was now even. in my earlier speech to see if there could be a better solution for this group that there would really be just one holiday goal. This is something that I think is perfectly normal to look at at in advance work, and I agree with it. A senator to the decrease in the share of pensions is a very important factor, i.e. ... touncheckit. And that's right. A senator said that an increase in the perennial market of employment may not be useful to a large group. However, this may mean that this group is growing because those who have the ability and ability to work may benefit from going to the job market. Then that group can grow.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u224	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I'm gonna stay in these parts of an elderly citizen's vacation market. Hv. A senator did a fine job, arguing that the cost of raising the payout is real from a hundred thousand dollars. In 200,000 K. would be much less than 540 million, which the Ministry of finance values the cost. The senator and I agree on that argument, I think they're right. In view of this, the real cost of raising this target by 100,000 dollars. For 200,000 K, I'd like to ask you why. Senator: He is standing before the option to follow the government policy of this case or the Central Party's policy to stop raising this leisure target to 500,000 dollars. During a month, did you realize that the real cost is negligible, which choice would the senator choose and speak for?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u225	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I think it's very important that this should be checked at the work that lies ahead. There have been calculations that when the holiday target is up and up, it actually costs very little. A senator knows that calculations, I'm sure. That is why I say for my part that if it is shown, and the Ministry of finance reviews these calculations, that these levels can be increased even further, and it shows up in the work that lies ahead, I would, of course, support that it would be higher. I hope that this will be the kind of work that lies ahead of us to see that it is possible to do better, and then, of course, I will support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u226	Mr. President. I thank you for the answer, and, of course, I'm glad to hear it. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's citizens will vote with the Central Party's proposal to pay the budget to raise the old citizen's holiday target at 500,000 bucks. but not $200,000. As the government suggests. Hv. In his speech a senator also came up with the need for financial support. Hv. A senator has in his early stages, like the one standing here, spoken of the need to shrink the booth. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, in what sort of budget they represent, describes a special restraint from the government categories, in what categories of cases. A senator sees the signal most.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u227	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. As it was in my speech, the largest single currency in the medical business, and I think everyone understands that it is very important that we meet the health costs of the virus epidemic and that there are many things that need to be fixed in the health system as we know. Hv. A senator asks about expenses, and I've been its spokesman. In the big context of a government fund that is just over 1,000 billion, I don't think the largest budget is a great deal. He asks me if I specifically studied where to save money in the government. [[The president calls.]] I've been reading the bill since it came out, and I have to say, I can't see that there are some big cashiers that really worry me. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u228	President. We're gonna go for a second. A senator was on a budget during the last term, and he set out on a number of things the government had to say to them, but supported such as some things we knew would be successful, although it was rather unclear what the results would be, and he offered some suggestions on how it could be achieved even more effectively than the government was afraid to guess what the financial and financial achievements would have. It is interesting to dig only in the last financial programme and in the debate over it there. That is exactly what one senator spoke of as an unsurpassed increase in funds for the climate, so I take to quote, by permission of a president, and that this financial scheme was filled with empty statements, ambitious statements, and solved no problem, and so the government should not be supported. I wondered, because these budgets are based on the financial strategy: Is the senator suggesting a reduction in budget for climate management? Or what is the senator going to do with these financial laws, since they were so incompetent in financial programs just earlier this year? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u229	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. In case of a moment. A senator has listened to my speech earlier, and I just mentioned that the budget for climate is about 13 billion, and I specifically introduced that I am its spokesman, and that knows why. A senator, for example, that we are in general budgeting the budget, as well as on climate matters, see the results of these budgets. I haven't changed my mind on that subject, but everyone agrees on that and the group. A senator, in addition to the importance of climate control. But I also know why. A senator agrees with me in that we want to know what the result is, and that has primarily been my case when it comes to climate.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u230	A respectable president. Yes, I listened to a talk. A senator wondered if he would hear his quote by permission of the president again: a relentless increase in the contributions to climate. This is likely to be said by some analysis of the success of the use or distribution or the financial resources. Or has the senator changed his mind? Is it now all of a sudden unclear whether it is the result of their spending or what happened? What's the deal? So a senator would do because of these legal classes that we are now working on when they were impossible to process financial programs? I'm just trying to figure out how it goes together, i.e. Where are the words and levels in this discussion?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u231	Mr. President. I just want to take this opportunity and encourage you. That's exactly what a senator is - now he's still on a budget committee, but I'm not there anymore - that he is especially asking for some success measures to be made on these budgets at a time. But part of it is, in fact, the energy exchange, and I think we all agree that it's important and part of these funds. The bottom line is this, why. Senator: I have not changed my mind in this regard. I've talked about that when we put money, a lot of money, in a set of cases, we get to know what the results are and if the group is important, and I think that most people agree with it today and we're not supposed to be submers of other nations on that subject, we should get a clear view of the results. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u232	Mr. President. It's about Mr. President's bell turn, and the president in general sees today, he's a bit loud. We got the tips during the last season to hang on to the bell -- she's incredibly sensitive, I know it myself -- it's going really hard on the broadcast. It's just as disturbing to members of Congress, no matter how loud it is, but it's probably distracting the broadcast. I just want to ask a respectable president to consider that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u233	A respectable president. Sometimes it is said that the stones are talking. Thus began one speech to support the candidate in a campaign campaign for the vote of the Second President of the Republic. When this expression was spoken, it was elected to the high Council as a senator for the Stockholm people in the Northwestern District over two months ago. After a thorough investigation into the implementation of the election, the General concluded that the main goals on count votes had not affected the outcome of the election. The plan of the above was to give a virgin speech full of the colony's luminaries on the importance of democracy and the subject of Icelandic society. The question, though, is whether the person here is delivering his virgin speech or not after speaking up in a discussion about elections in the northwestern district and today on the budget bill. At times, facts are said to speak. This led to the conclusion when the General Assembly confirmed the convention's election letter in the northwestern district and the one spoken here. The speaker who opened his speech with the words ▪ "The stones, " or" stones, " are said to speak in support of the candidate, elected second president of the Republic, was my grandfather, a farmer in the Lolinhamra Valley of Anarfjord, in the West. The president was Ásgeir Ásgeirsson, one of the most successful presidents in the Republic. Truly, there are other times. When considering the financial bill, consider the words: The figures are sometimes said to speak. I'll tell you what's going on tonight. Every government's financial bill is its most important bill every year. The financial bill is the only bill that the government and financial secretary are obliged to submit each year, as it is stated in the Constitution itself. The new government was not created on the basis of the budget. The basis for a new government is the State's Convention, the Treaty of the Government Group, the Independence Party and the Left Force, this document here that all members of Congress should read and study. After reading both the budget and the government covenant, one point shines through, and there is little or no agreement between the Mosaic Law covenant and the financial bill. If a person read the government covenant and the budget bill, he could not conclude that the same government was both of these documents. There is no relationship. Another thing that shines through, as noted earlier today, is that the budget bill is not news, nothing. Yes, it is. There's no news. The government is not able to move forward in these critical times and milestones. There's nothing in the village and there's no leadership. It should be similar with the possibility that everything will be the way it was before Covid, the pandemic itself. We are living in a pandemic. All world epidemics have made an important milestone. The last pandemic, the Spanish flu, certainly did. True, it fell in the shadow of World War I, but it had a dramatic impact and a turning point that had a tremendous impact on the decades that followed, one of the greatest times of Icelandic society and Western society. It may be noted that in the United States, such as Talks of the redering twenties. Other world epidemics also did so, reminding us that the fall of the Roman Empire, the plague of Justinian and the plague of Antonias, affected the fall of the Roman Empire. The pandemic we face today will certainly have an effect, we just don't realize it yet. The effects will occur and include In the information revolution. The existing financial bill indicates that this does not include the leadership that is so urgent that the government shows at this critical time. There is no evidence that the State will produce the so important trend for Icelandic society in the time of a pandemic and an information revolution. The state of state funds is better than expected by year despite Covid. And what is done? Yes, there should be a return, as if nothing had happened. No pandemic has taken place. With the budget bill, the state is going to sit by in those days. Others are to lead. Other elements in society are to lead, not the government. The government's headquarters, the government of the old times, the government of halves, old B and D, with which we were raised, now by the arrival of the VG State of Guards over the system, is the government of this financial bill, we're clear. If we look at what is said in the Treaty then there are seven chapters that all of us will start with ◯We're going to start with the following: we're going to grow more prosperous, we're going to create the soil tools, we're going to put climate first, we're going to use technology to create greater quality of life, we're going to invest in people, we're going to contribute to a healthy society. More important, we are going to promote Icelandic culture and tourism. Yeah, the government's got a lot of plans. She's going for something. If we look at this chapter, we're going to grow to more prosperity, that's where we're going to say, by permission of a president: The government's guide to economic matters is growth and prosperity. [...] and emphasis on an excellent environment for the development of new, varied, and valuable jobs. Is there anything in the financial bill that the government intends to invest in the education of Icelandic workers so that it has the ability and ability to perform the new diversity and value? No, it's not part of the budget bill. In this regard, it seems that the government is going to rely on God and happiness. Perhaps you are to rely on Iceland's vast natural resources to produce this kind of work. Icelanders were lucky after a collapse when foreign tourists began to come to the country to enjoy its unique beauty. They were truly lucky. There was a gang crash, a dollar fell by 100%, and foreign tourists began streaming to the cheap Iceland. The financial bill says that the sources of construction in the road system down about 7 billion dollars are subject to growth and prosperity. In the meantime, such projects as Sunway wait for you. The productions for research, development, and innovation in fishing are down by 700 million. K. because the purchase of a new ocean study vessel has been delayed. This budget bill has no warrant for purchase in a new British shuttle, and it stands to sell an old Gelf instead of being used to relieve Baldur. This greatly inhibits the work structure in Western and Western countries. The financial bill does not contribute to the growth and prosperity of these parts of the country. It can also be noted that there is a reduction in the amount of donations used to build up at tourist locations, and tourism is one of the most important occupations in the country. In other words, there is no need to invest in infrastructure structure, including this. to reduce the growth of contributions into the nation's most important sector these days. In the chapter, we are going to create an instrument for soil, as follows, by permission of a president: ▪ We want to create an education system to deal with the changes and challenges that lie ahead. By fostering creative thinking, knowledge and science and ensuring all the opportunity to participate, we will increase our competitiveness in the changing world [...] Technologies for creating new skills for working in a complex society... The first thing that I can think of when I read a complex community is that Icelandic society is not a complicated community in any way. It is 3 60,000 people in Icelandic society, and it is not complicated. There is nothing in the budget that creates a new education system for a new era, let alone that the state intends to place money on increasing the competitiveness of Icelandic society in the changed world. Absolutely not. In this regard, the financial bill says that contributions for a high school level drop by 0.6% between years. For employment courses and fortitudes, donations are not always the norm. The college level has to meet a 300 billion standard. K. and, at the same time, there is a special Ministry for a university, called the Ministry of the Future. The entire U.S. Senate knows that future investments need to be invested. This government is not doing, but it still sets up an entire Ministry for the future. There is nothing in the budget bill that suggests that students should be asked for a fairer student loan system that was one of the main struggles between the people in the campaign. In the chapter, we will put the climate priority on the subject, according to the President's permission: We want Iceland to take the lead in combating the climate threat. I'm putting 13 billion into this suit, and Iceland is going to be the best in the world. Haven't we heard this before, Iceland's best in the world? For one thing, a large part of Iceland is a nefarious country. In the meantime, Iceland will never be in the lead of environmental issues in the world, never at all. Secondly, Iceland will not be in the top row of anything until it has the worst arms around them, the poor people in New York City. That's the way it is, and that's how it's always gonna be. For those who are occupied with Iceland's best way of life, in the world's lead, in the world's front row, in any area, whether in the environment, in climate or in other areas, it is and will always be judged by the way Icelandic society, the Norwegian American community, who like to call themselves an Arctic welfare society, handles the affairs of poor people, how society deals with and cares for the elderly, the microeminents, and all those who stand on the feet of society. That is how Icelandic society will be judged. It can come in the best order if it takes those groups, handles poverty, eliminates poverty, not by being full of pride, as if it were going to be in the world on a global scale in climate. It is tragic to see that the government is going to go through the important climate class and make them some big deal and then back home because this song is not to be listened to abroad. To tell the Icelanders that they are the best in a climate when the situation of the desperate elderly is in the way that it really is possible to call them hypocrisy. In this chapter, we're going to use technological modification to create improved quality of life, says the following, with the permission of a president: We are strengthening Iceland's competitiveness, improving her prosperity and improving her community to cope with rapidly changing technology. Is Iceland a special innovation country with its resource economy? No, it's not. We live in a resource economy and there is no special innovation. If you look at the information revolution in the Western world, it just isn't. The facts speak for themselves. Well, we buy iPhone and all this technology, but there's no software industry that could be called. Will the government put money on increase innovation or strengthen Iceland's competitiveness? No, not particularly. The financial bill has increased contributions to innovation by 1.5 billion dollars. There's not a lot of money in the large context of the budget or the community. In this chapter, we are going to invest in people the following, with the permission of a president: The individual is the heart of the system, but touching. And to contribute to making people useful to their abilities and energy. The chapter discusses the elderly and the desperate. It says that the matter of microenergy donor management will be reviewed during the term. We have a password here. Making a revision during the vote period doesn't cost anything, and it can take four years. It is heartbreaking to see in the budget that there is no actual action for the poorest and elderly citizens, for the poorest people in the country and for those who are in favor of their feet in the community. Poor people are still being taxed. The cuts are still there. Nothing is done for disability when there is a decrease in the quality of the potential income, whether it is income or money. Nothing is done to allow for all micropairs who rely on themselves to experiment with a workforce for two years without impairment and without a re-evaluation of their disability. The financial bill does nothing to encourage self - preservation individuals. Rather, it is a punishment for those who try and want to save themselves in some way. To think that the Independence Party, a class that boasts to be a group of individual initiatives, a group that is tireless to say to the nation that it is the group that contributes to the individual's free enterprise and that he is to enjoy himself, is a financial bill, where nothing is done to contribute to the survival of those whose feet are in the community because of its disability. It is quite remarkable that the Independence Party and this government do not promote self - preservation, that they will be allowed to stand on their own. It's individual freedom. It is also an individual's freedom for the poor or for older ones to be able to save themselves. There's nothing exactly done. Not only that, but those who have disability and earn income are punished. This government encourages them to stay at home in isolation and not be active members of the community. Increase in sensibility and disability are required to keep up with inflation and no more. You can read about it on page 18. 134 on the budget bill. Part of the increase in biofuels is 0.8% due to lack of inflation. This is based on the estimated mean increase in FIRS over the next year, 3.8%. There is nothing to offset the amount of accumulated human breast cancer that has grown since falling, year after year. And that's 13 years from collapse. When you're in Iceland, it looks like the collapse was only last year or two years ago. The collapse is so close to us in class. I don't know if there's a lot of thinking about 2008, but when you get to Iceland, it's like it just happened yesterday. We are still dealing with what took place in October 2008, both political, economic, and social. The penalties of pension are the same as they used to be in both the pensioners and the desperate, so pensioners do not fully enjoy their pensions. Pension rates are unacceptable and must be lowered. The budget bill shows that the rise in early pension is 540 billion. K. There's not a lot of money on the budget bill. So I agree to the next chapters of the Treaty, there is no need to discuss the chapters we are going to promote a healthy community and we are going to promote Icelandic culture and tourism. There is a general talk about Icelandic society. It does not say: Iceland should be at the head of a international bison. We want Iceland to take the lead in the world. Neither are we going to invest in people in the chapter. The wealth doesn't reach the people of the country, it just goes to climate, not to the people of the country, and certainly not to the poor and older people. We're back in Iceland, back home to little old Iceland, where everyone knows the discussion so well. Yes, in the chapter we're going to contribute to a healthy community, we're going to say the following, by permission of a president: ▪ We look at the health of the nation in a broad context. This context is so broad that what should not be done to promote the health system in Icelandic society, one of the world's richest societies, is in sixth place in terms of wealth, as measured by OECD, the world club. Nothing is done for Iceland to run a high-tech hospital so it is a waste that the people and the Icelanders can be proud of. The priorities are second in the budget bill. Regarding the health system in particular, it is not addressed to the problems staff there have repeatedly referred to in the past few months. Improvements need immediate attention. At the Land Hospital, there is still a 0.5% retreat. The hospital and its staff are under a lot of stress and unwisely requiring restraint. It is not apparent that the next year's nursing procedures should be under way beyond previous plans. That is a real concern, for the Icelandic people are getting older. It is set in motion that the discussion of the situation at Land Hospital will continue on the front pages of the magazine and be the main subject of the next year's press. The Icelandic health system is subsidized. That's a fact. Icelanders today represent 0.7% of GDP in health matters, far below average in the North countries. The people want to make things right. This showed the signature Kári the 2016 Stefánsson, where 85,000 people insisted that 11% of the gross domestic product be exposed to health issues similar to those in the North countries. We haven't reached 11% yet, and we're far from it. There's nothing in the budget that reflects this clear will of the nation. Health matters are of utmost importance. In Covid times, the importance has been well established. The top of the local hospital and health care needs to be done in the country. As an independent nation, Icelanders must be able to run one high-tech hospital with dignity. Fundamental funding in recent years has prevented this. One of the cornerstones of modern society is the health system. This needs to be shown up in a financial bill, but it simply isn't. In terms of the income side of the budget bill, it's a real disappointment that the bank tax and fishing fees are paying so little. It is the loss of billions that could have been protected to eliminate loss of income disability. The budget bill says 540 billion. K. Enclosed to double the elderly's holiday target of 100,000 dollars. every month for about 200,000 K. There's not a lot of money in the big picture of the budget. It would have been easy to do the same for disability, i.e. that disability can be obtained by sectoral participation or the attempt to work with no disability reforms. This has been the case, and it has had a good effect and decreases in disability improvements after two years of employment in the absence of income loss. A respectable president. It is amazing that poverty is a talk in New York City. Iceland is one of the richest countries in the world, and there's still talk of poor business here. For a person who has lived in Scandinavia mostly since 2011, the great talk about poverty is always as surprising. I haven't heard a similar conversation in Scandinavia, and certainly not in Norway. Iceland wants to be viewed as a Norwegian welfare community. Not so long as poverty is so common in this country. It's just not like that. We are not a non - Biblical welfare community at that time. These funds do not deal with this great and serious social ill. The bill has no policy in terms of terms so important at this turning point in Icelandic society in a pandemic. It seems to be based on the fact that Iceland is a truly rich country because certain groups of society live in poverty, that it is essential to the wealth. This is the wrong approach in all ways. No one in Icelandic society is rich because community groups live in poverty or live with the brutal decrease from common fund because of their own income. Society becomes richer if everyone in society enjoys a decent standing and can have an active share in society. On this, the North American welfare model is based. That's an important point. Everyone is active; poorer and older citizens. Available budget bill is not a Norwegian financial bill. The facts of the budget bill speak for themselves. The numbers speak for themselves. I appreciate your audition. Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u234	President. Like what? A senator said that it might not be a virgin talk, but it is usually not a custom for answering a virgin talk. However, it may have been a virgin talk, so I'm not going to answer the exact subject of the talk, but perhaps only about the fate of the sermon that may not have been part of it, so I think it'll escape. Hv. A senator spoke of the facts related to the election case in the foreword to this speech that I thought was a little remarkable because I scratched my mind on the facts of this case, and I just have to say that there is a fact in the matter that no one knows how and why there was a difference between previous and second words. [[The president calls.]] So I just wanted to get an explanation for it at night. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u235	A respectable president. Thank you. I also think about those days very important to a member of the council for the counter. The facts are that it was again thought to be in the northwestern district. Why was that? This was because there was a very small difference between an economist in the South American and the Northwestern ultimatum. It was counted in the Southern District. That's where all the numbers fell from the previous count. They did not do so in the northwestern district. When counted again, two things can happen: It can jam or it can not match. For the figures that came out of these boxes, the reason for regaping is that there was a vote found in the C list's stacks. That's why I count back. Other categories had included tax returns - that was human error - including human error. The ban on the people's team, so it was counted again. That's the facts. [[The president calls.]] And a causal relationship is that the villa and the goal did not affect the outcome of the election. [[The president calls.]] That's what the law says, and we have to follow the law. The General doesn't have the law on the outcome of the election or interpretation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u236	The president calls attention to the fact that the clock in the speaker's hand has been playing on us, so the president must try to monitor the clock and signal the members of the council by gently knocking on a bell.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u237	A respectable president. Hv. A senator said that it was the fact that votes came into the bank of C because of human error. That's the problem. We don't know, we can't say. Therefore, this is not a fact because we cannot say. In fact, we made another trip to the city and saw very clearly that the second talk was wrong from the evidence that we examined there. Thus, the facts are something we simply do not know. It is, if anything, the greatest fact of that matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-02-3.u238	A respectable president. The facts of the matter are that the votes were counted, there were votes, voters chose with votes, they were put in the box, picked out of the boxes, and numbered, in the morning and then again the second part. That's the facts, and that was the main thing. But there has to be a chance that the goal will affect the outcome of the election because the law says so, if it may be expected that the problem or goal would affect the outcome of the election. These odds were not present. There was no chance that the goal would have affected the election's outcome, whether it was written in a book or anything. There was nothing to indicate, the man in the moon did not come and change his vote. These four employees of the Hotel City were not referring to the voters. That's what the police report says. It was also noted to the committee that the ballot of the Commission, the secretary of the election, elected by the General, did not apply to the votes. There was no one else to distribute except the point compass and these four employees. [[Up front.]] We believe that. That's the fact. We can theoretically or philosophically begin to doubt that somewhere... [[Foreground on, Santa Claus.]] Maybe Santa Claus or the guy in the moon, but it wasn't. It was simply not. And the chances of this happening are virtually no, but the facts are the rules. That's the facts and the results of the election.
