ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u1	Borist has received a letter from the Department of Social Affairs where the request is made in order to give a written answer to a covering query. 882, on income and the decrease in pensioners, from Ólafur Ísleifsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u2	A respectable president. Half the time of the morons, this part of the program, the work of the council I speak in here, has often been called. And now, in the changed council of Congress, he's only once a week in place of twice, and I want to make a comment about it. Well, the new organization is a experiment project, and with this particular part of the program, I feel that it has failed. Even if more members of the council learn that each time, that is not enough, since this part of the program is one of the most important parts of the program. Once a week isn't enough, for there's a week in politics, but it's quite a long time. At the council, members of the council are given the opportunity to express themselves in the same independent manner as they do here in the Senate Hall. It's a symmetrical part, it can be provocative. He often lights up issues or ideas that otherwise would not have been so easy to find a way into this chamber. The performance of rotten vessels as a status check on what burns on the council each time, often giving the subject an excellent opportunity for media coverage. A respectable president. The half-time of these morons is, in my opinion, one of the most underappreciated members of the council, and it is not now time - consuming or unpredictable. It's only half an hour and half an hour is only half an hour. He's been talking, and now I've been going to the council since November, and this has been the last speech I've ever had under this program for at least very long time. But here I sent my encouragement to the U.S. Congress to protect this precious program of service, for I claim that it is precious for democracy itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u3	The president gives us reason to make a decision that this part of the program is called the Council's Work.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u4	President. I'd like to make up a subject of words used by a spokesman on the TV show fine, Uphike, during the days where it was held out by threats that there could be a risk between Iceland's health insurance and patients. By my knowledge, Mr President, this is a masquerading threat. I believe there is a false threat that goes against 23rd degree. the management of health care professionals. Now it is stated that the European Union of Iceland, BSRB and Iceland's Development has adopted and made a statement on this recommendation. It says, by permission of the president: If experts make their threat real, patients will likely have to cover all costs and then reimburse SI for reimbursement. Even now, many find it difficult to pay their initial expenses in the payment carts, and many turn down health care because of expenses. Large groups of people will not be able to contribute to expert service, nor will the inconveniences of reimbursement be mentioned. President. I believe this is against law that says there is moderation in 23rd degree. the healthcare professional's administration procedures: ▪ Health care providers should make sure that patients, health insurance, or others who run the cost of health care are not subject to unnecessary expenses or discomfort. President. I don't think that in his argument with health insurance it's a threat to experts who will bite patients, and threaten criminal violations for selfish gain.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u5	V.E.G. President. From time to time, we come as a community to a place that requires a painful surrender. Today, it is true of public slots, who for years have financed their activities by running machines of various types of people who are distracted and who thus destroy their lives and care for their loved ones. It's an addiction of the worst kind, and we have to face it. This calls for action immediately. Thus, there is no alternative for those who have kept a slot machines running but to stop funding themselves in this way, nor does it make any difference, though it may mean much to them. This has to stop right now. I'm proud and pleased with my old organization, U.S.A., that they've already seen their error and decided to stop playing machines. But for some reason, there are still members of this society that will make up their minds. That is what I refer to in our society, such as the University of Iceland, the Red Cross, and Landsbourg. It is very difficult to have to stand here and remind these people to do their duty to sick people. This has to stop right now. I know from experience that it takes effort and sacrifice to cope with your weaknesses, but you have to. It is not morally justified that institutions such as the Red Cross, the University of Iceland, and Landsbourg finance the misery of others. This has to stop right now. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u6	A respectable president. It is not long spoken for half an hour, but something remarkable is said there. Sea farm is a field of employment that has come to be on the land. Fish farming was practiced on some scale here in the last few decades and was then accompanied by a particular problem at first. Many factors involved the lack of technology, equipment, and knowledge at today's level. Nor was there a legal basis or inspection on the part of the government. Today, the situation is different. When fish farming is being influenced, society is in place of practice. The population's growth shows a greater hope for a wide variety of activities that really matter to us. Now, the export of farmed salmon yields the second most valuables of all the fish exported from Iceland. This industry has been increasing rapidly in the last decade. We can expect that it will provide tens of millions of dollars of valuables for our national preparation, so infrastructure must be there to ensure maintenance and growth and to ensure the greatest benefits. It should be noted that building materials in fish farms will allow the industry to grow even further. Transport schedule allows for network transport, e.g. will be moved to modern times within five years, but we will not stop there but will further consider maintaining and rebuilding the road between urban areas. In this way, we secure the pathways that increase the level of vitamins in the economy. A respectable president. It should then be considered to review the legal and regulations environment involved in rural areas where marine farming is practiced and clear sources for remuneration aimed at ensuring that income from such remuneration is subject to the necessary tasks that rural society needs to meet in order for the service to cook. I believe that the arrangement recently established for commercial farming is not sufficiently efficient. In order to reconcile any form of currency from the fire, the income must be divided at a brotherly rate between state and rural society. This will bring us the maximum benefit for neighboring communities and the nation itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u7	Mr. President. Last January, the 27th issue of Awake! A health committee by a health service memo for the decision of a health minister to transfer cervical samples to a Danish laboratory instead of using human resources and equipment in this country. There was also information on the content of negotiations with the Danish people. Well, seven weeks later, the Ministry still hasn't answered the board in spite of many benefits, and I wish to the highest degree. The president of the council helped the Council's Regular Committee to handle these challenges. Today's lunchtime reports show that the National Hospital has given the Ministry a positive answer to those cervical biopsy tests. Now I remember as much as it has been said that the hospital hasn't been asked or called for further work when given without questions about nursing. However, of the many experts who have expressed themselves on the subject, only two recommend that these research be moved out of the country, of which another leads to this work for the Ministry of Health. Everyone else, including some trade unions, wants the research done at the Land Hospital. The decision to consult a Danish laboratory for cervical samples was not made until mid - November, when the Landskeeper felt that he could accept those tests. Science's new news on this subject is presented in more and more. Mr. President. Why did the government choose to shun Icelandic investigators and the tools we have and to export these projects beyond the rocks? I reiterate my request to the highest degree. A president helping us with what we need. A health committee to try to squeeze answers from the Ministry of Health after seven weeks of waiting. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u8	Mr. President. I'm very interested in examining the different gangs of the more part of the government community and the more part of Reykjavík. During this election period, the number of groups making up more parts at the General Assembly has lost a significant proportion, while the majority of the city council groups have greatly increased their role. It is interesting to dig into this while considering what has characterized the management of the main components. This is what Þorsteinn's son Pálsson did in an interesting article in the News magazine of the Days. He recalls that the general public seems pleased that the government has allowed disease - control experts to control the viral epidemic. In this respect and possibly in other ways, the epidemic has helped the government. Furthermore, only if we have had good experience and long - lived health problems have the governments been experiencing much changes. The decision is more about everything else that the government has not done, but it loses the more part or the government groups follow. This is the other way to the mayor. The majority of these have been fully involved in implementing new and ambitious policy in organizational and transport. It is certainly not an undisputed act, and it is not without mistakes. Yet, the followers of the majority increase. In its article, the Þorsteinn said: "The government's policy is a conservative policy, a trip to the future without a promise. A policy of the greater part in the city is liberal progress, clear vision of the future. Mr. President. According to this, there is a greater demand for an active, liberal progress movement that requires discussion and exchange of individual actions rather than for a conservative position that is not moving in the discussion. But, of course, the situation is more comfortable for the manager of the government, and if it is thought that recent words from the government's representatives, they aim to establish this station after the next election.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u9	Mr. President. Today, I'm going to make the subject of a certain kind of magic art. Or you might say that it is toward the realm of the magic-mutations that is called in the general language of illusions, but illusions are basically on the side of what actually takes place away from the attention of the accuser, pointing the audience's attention elsewhere during the illusion. In this business, i.e. Enchanting, mostly keeping people busy with things that don't matter, and when the illusion has happened, everything has gone down. Mr. President. At the beginning of 2019, when it became clear that industrial investments were becoming intense, the government introduced the force's beating of public projects. At the beginning of the viral epidemic, the drums were again recorded, and the beat was still struck by increasing official projects. An observer focused on the beating of the drum, which was expected. And what is it? According to Iceland's Habitat Institute, government projects in 2019 were dragged together by less than 11%. Last year, 2020, official projects were reassigned, now 9.3%. Of course, these facts are for the government that has been found there to discover that the illusion failed. In recent years the government's declarations of increased expenses for investments in the infrastructure, the road system, ports, airports, have become empty, deception. The increase is really a contraction. But worse, this reduction results in an even greater need for an injection in the coming years when we also have to deal with the consequences of the virus epidemic. Mr. President. It's time to put the magic stuff away and take real action to create a job.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u10	President. The Law on Sexual Self - Control, adopted recently at the General Assembly, says at 1 Corinthians 15: 58. ... withauthority of the President's permission: ▪ This law applies to the right of individuals to define their gender and thus aims to ensure that their sexual senses are accepted. We are not all men. No matter how much and many people would like to keep up with this meaningless language, it is simply that we do not all define ourselves as males. All of us are of all kinds, and we all have the right to respect such qualities as gender, gender, gender, sexual expression, and physical privacy. A certain objection has been to use sex - free language, but, of course, at the General Assembly and in public institutions being responsible for establishing new language practices. It is natural for a language to develop and a certain Eitelia to maintain meaningless sexual practices that may be most easily explained by fear of change and the feeling of being walked on the rights of the dominant cylinders of women and men. Eiríkur Rögnvaldsson, professor emeritus of Icelandic grammar, recently pointed out in one of his fists, by permission of presidents: ▪ These words seem strange and even foolish to many. That is normal - new words usually act strangely on us. They need getting used to, and it takes time. Many words that we use thoughtlessly and thoughtlessly each day were strange when they first appeared. In the last century, Professor Halldór Halldor Halldórsson said that a new word would have to be used 60 times to get used to it. Try it! The Web site Inverse from A to A (or otila.is) contains terms that cover gay realities and establish the basis for understanding queer things. Let us learn and participate in this vital change in our speech habits. We won't lose anything on it. A council is supposed to be for all of us, a law should be for us all, society should be for us all. High, my, my, my my, my my [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u11	Mr. President. There is no need for a tenth of the importance of Arctic routes, and the eight countries have been successful in cooperating in the Arctic Council. I present a search, rescue, fishing contract, as well as an international agreement by President Polar Code, in the north. There are standards of behavior in ocean voyages or polar seafood. This reminds us of a special problem in North Pole, a defense and security problem. They are not discussed at the Arctic Council, and they are not discussed at the world level at the National Conference. There is also a general policy of keeping low-voltage around the North, and Iceland has its own voice there. This reminds us that there is a need for discussion and work in the face of growing tensions in northern areas and increasing military activity. Until 2014 the Russians participated in a field of debates in the northern part of the country, but after the Crimea case, they were removed from there. And now Iceland is turning the head of the North Pole to Russia, and it's going on, as they know. I believe we should suggest an initial step toward the Arctic security code in the spirit of the other code. This is what we do in this present year, I think, and the following years. Then we use the Ringboard of the North, a growing body of members of Congress for peace, which has just been formed, such as Open Diplomacy in Europe, Wilson Institute of Washington, and, in particular, the cooperation of the National Geographic and, of course, the United Nations. The code would tell you about the rules of contact and the communication between security and security officials of the North and the behavior with the intention of maintaining low-voltage and preventing mistakes that may lead to conflict. We have a lead assignment here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u12	Mr. President. Can Iceland become uninhabitable during our lifetime? Yeah. After all, what is the most important interest? It's the Golf current. If, and even when the Golf current changes, the temperature here is likely to drop more than 10°C, according to the recent report of the New York Times. That's a lot. Iceland would then be like Svalbard. And, Mr President, with all due respect to Svalbard, I don't want to live in Svalbard. A life as we know it would be over. Our real estate would be worthless, even worthless. Our value in crowns would also be worthless, and the fish would be gone. The effects would also be disastrous in other parts of the world, including the U.S. rise in sea level in the United States, stronger hurricanes, freezing debt in Europe, and droughts in Africa. Mr. President. Now there is strong evidence that climate change and melting are affecting our dear Golf current. And while the Golf current is not disappearing, it is beginning to slow down and weaken as a result of recent research. It's pretty serious to us in Iceland. Only the possibility that the current will start acting differently should be taken very seriously. Thus, we Icelanders and I should have much more attention to the sea around us and especially to the Golf current, which is literally our vitality. He's our lifeblood, he's a real life stream. Mr. President. Most of the other things we argue about in this room can simply pray while the situation is like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u13	Mr. President. An interesting report has been received about a group that has been formed that is entitled to interest people in transportation for all. It has suggested a much less expensive solution than the city line and much more efficient, apparently. These plans, e.g. it is not expected that very large buses will travel through city streets, as it seems to be supposed to be planned. Their plan is based on a system called BRT Lite, we trap it into the Senate case and call it a bus crash. It is, in fact, there. suggest the patient's own lanes are shortened to the right. It will be added to the mixed streets so that the Grand Way can fulfill the initial obligation to be lightless, i.e. that it is possible to travel east or west in Reykjavík without stopping on lights at a distance of 300 yards [300 m] or so. I think this is something, Mr. President, who should be very careful because the city line as presented today is supposed to cost more than 100 billion dollars. I assume she'll gather a car ride in the city about 4%. By taking it into place, it will delay or increase the delay in 88996% of people who are in traffic to speed it up forty-one-one-two percent. In this group, there are many modern - day engineers and engineers who have been very experienced. Surely, then, we need to pay attention to these suggestions and try them in line with what seems to be going on in the city line in Reykjavík.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u14	A respectable president. Last night, the highest power moved. Minister of Justice here at the General Assembly for a new translation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Poor People, which is good. But where is the legalization of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Poor People and His Annex? Why has he not been legalized, as it was supposed to have been before the New Year's Eve? The contract and its appendix ensures that the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people is under control. You see, the government is supposed to have provided a bill and a legal agreement made by the United Nations on the affairs of disabled people. Why does the government of the left green, forwarding party and the Independence Party drag their legs in this matter? What's going on with the government? The legalization was adopted here by all, from all categories, which is a giant step for disabled people. I don't understand why the government doesn't care about justice and find its conscience by improving the rights and rights of disabled people in Iceland as it should. As a result, over the centuries physical and spiritual violence has been the lot of disabled people, and it is, unfortunately, still. Then there is the intolerable economic violence that has been committed year after year, a government by government, to disabled people. In this context, I also insist that the inhuman impairment of the individual person's interest in disabled persons will be cut off, causing a large number of them to no longer have an assessment of their plate, but at the most, the first day of the month. It is time here at the General Assembly that the government will treat people with respect and legalize the United Nations Convention and its annex immediately. Let's put together at the General and stop the fact that disabled people are some kind of leftover size that will only be crushed by the table of the State, if there are any. Let us see once and for all that their legal rights to decent living are respected. The people say, " First, people who are fed, then all the rest. '
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u15	A respectable president. If a child at school fell down stairs at school or suffered violence on the part of a fellow student or otherwise, causing him to break bones or other physical harm, I do not think that the parent of the same child would feel the need to fight the system and all the systems we have to help the child. If, on the other hand, the same child is in shock or bullying or other spiritual violence, we today live under the position that a parent can expect to receive no in one place, or to be warned to go on another, or to face an extremely long wait list on the third, and then to be distracted with this remedy for the long time that even when the child has suicidal thoughts, our system is not equipped to deal with the problem. It's not one person's fault. This is not a request to the highest. Secretary of health. I think this is about an attitude in our society that reflects within the institutions of what we build to deal with problems like this, i.e. Differences in physical health and mental health, however. It is likely that we take spiritual health for granted in our daily lives and that our systems are prepared to receive people who are affected by tragedy or violence or anything that has a negative impact on their spiritual health and the ability to work in the community. We've got to get involved in this, more dignified president. There are lives at stake. The lives of children at stake. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u16	A respectable president. I'm here to discuss one of the most important seeds we have here on land at this time, which is the Gardening School of Smoke in Elfs. The school has developed over the years, creating much good soil for the abundant vegetation that has been produced there to benefit from the opportunities of the future under Icelandic and Icelandic intelligence. There, the working life, the students, the staff, and especially the trade unions have formed a great deal of solidarity that I mentioned earlier. It hurts to say that these growths and the desire to develop the future, captures the opportunities in front of us in the garden in general, are trapped in the schools of Education. They're stuck in that box. There's always some preconceived rules there. This seed will not be watered while it is in this box. Now, the main problem may be that it is not possible to decide how school is free to take advantage of opportunities. It has been said to take him to Southland's Mountain School, which will ensure that he will heal as a professional school for the whole country where everyone who wants to come to the garden for the future can approach the school, as is done at the University of Fish Technology in Gravit, where health has been restored. She has seen that she has been very happy and successful, and school is doing a lot of work. We need to make sure that the Gardening School gets the freedom to water and grow into a flower on smoke in Alfus. They need to have authority over their housing, even if the agricultural university can be allowed to be there in case of need.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u17	Mr. President. This week the campaign started, the government's job in cooperation with a number of people. The campaign is designed to create some 7,000 jobs in cooperation with government, rural society, and employment. It is estimated that the project will be staked at 4,5,5 billion. Thus, the project will be a bridge to the level of resistance expected to develop when the epidemic compromises. The campaign is designed to look especially upon those who have been without employment for a long time and are making full use of their right to unemployment. Companys, organizations, and members of society can all be involved. Farmers can use just as much as possible to create work that is done by women, to form in social services, and in the school system. Of companies, small and medium-sized enterprises are looked up to up to 70 employees. The amount is important and is more than 500,000. with each job for six months, a significantly higher level of support than ever before. This project, in fact, is in addition to the potential recruitment levels but may not have been sufficiently used. Here's a sample, if it's useful, for about one minute. One third of those out of work in the country today. It is, therefore, an ambitious task, and it is very important to be successful and to be accepted by people who are involved in the project. Our success in dealing with the pandemic has enabled governments to make decisions like those taken yesterday, which will provide us with a request for an important job interview, i.e. Tourism. It's important, then, that all of this works out well. The sun is rising in the sky, and next week it is the same day in the spring. We can look ahead with optimism. Government action and harmony with all of us will bring us into a better time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u18	A respectable president. Today, a report at Visa on cervicalski states that a health minister has decided to go to a foreign laboratory after the land hospital's position expected the hospital to have both the ability and the desire to take in these cervical samples. In fact, this has been suggested by doctors and comments, but what is new in this report says that the Ministry of Health overrated the expense of a local country. This room has the highest power. While health minister has been referred to as a security issue, news today reports that this was a cost. When the decision to carry out the research outside the rocks was made, a smaller part of the Council had spoken to them, others not. The assessment of the Land Hospital was that the screening should remain in the country. According to the National Hospital Commission's Association, many professionals have been ignored by the authorities, and we have seen some conclusions on the subject. If this has been the cost that eventually troved on the professional reasoning of doctors and specialists in the system, this needs to be reasoned and how the Ministry's overall assessment of the costs, safety and access, all of this weighed together. And what it does for access to demonstrations, what it does for channels, what it does for security and quality and for the well - being of women of Icelandic health care, special knowledge, and special jobs. If this has been done at expense, the highest will be needed. A health minister to be able to say it plainly. I recently requested a report along with several other members of the council that an independent party performs a report on this subject with the guidance of getting information about this action. The objective was that by doing so, women could be able to trust the system and the general public can trust this system for screening for cervical cancer. Sadly, though, news today that cost has been embellished by other experts'arguments.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u19	Mr. President. At the beginning of that week, a meeting of the United Nations Women's Committee of Women began. It lasts two weeks and covers a number of issues involving women's positions and rights. The main theme of the conference is the active involvement of women in all fields, the elimination of violence and the control of all women and girls. At the beginning of the meeting, the words of the chief secretary of the United Nations were memorable. He said, for instance, with President's permission: 'Women need to beyond fixing Women and inad fix our systems.' This could be translated as follows: We have to stop fixing women and start working on our systems. This is an important message. How often they don't say: Women only need to be more efficient, more efficient in education, allow themselves to be available for interviews, demand a raise, etc. It is similar when women are sexually or sexually abused: women are not to dress like this or queer; women are not to be alone; women are to take care of their drinks; women are to have this, and women are to do this. The conclusion is that women can blame themselves; women should be different. These are out - of - date and dangerous attitudes that must be eliminated. Instead, let us focus on changing society so that women can fearlessly share fully without having to change. Here, we all have work to do in changing systems and thinking, especially us men.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u20	A respectable president. After our last year's experience, I think that all of us can agree that telecommunications have advantages and defects. It is amazing to see the change that has occurred in one year. For more than 20 years, citizens of the country have encouraged society to use more effectively the benefits of telecommunications and telecommunications. In these days, many people talk about the opportunities to continue to make good use of the benefits after Covid, and I take my heart to the importance of it. Still, it would be an illusion to think that this will happen spontaneously. Individuals need to make a conscious decision to continue to make good use of the benefits so that the defects will continue to be replaced, improved by technology, and the skills to use them. We must be careful that the principle does not cause obstacles, as it did. for a long time in rural government law. Directors of institutions and companies need to analyze the best possible opportunities for telecommunications and telecommunications. Then the whole community will benefit. Earlier in this discussion, it was noted that there was an experiment at the General Assembly with a changed council week. That organization is certainly not flawless, but I think it is extremely important to hold on to its advantages, e.g. to ensure that the unscrupulous participation of both members of the Parliament and visitors at the remote committees, and now that one day of the week is organized as a remote day, there is far more benefit than I expected for us local council members, since this organization has a number of factors that affect the potential to coordinate the role of the work.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u21	Mr. President. I'd like to discuss these parts of the country and their status. We are far too inclined to discuss them in the context of something boring and negative, such as people who are shrinking and the most difficult position in their employment. The fact is, Mr. President, in fact, that the settlements have never been as strong as they are today. Dr. Bjarnason's end recently pointed to this fact in his article ◯Berver's first - to - be disorder of the book Ur lip. There Thord put the Þóroddur concept in a somewhat fun setting, i.e. what counts as urban, but it's quite different from country after country. That's how it would, for example. Not all capital areas are considered urban in China. Mr. President. We have drawn the image that the growth of the capital area has cost other parts of the country, and in fact Iceland has become a city nation with a deteriorating rural population. However, the situation is that urban areas of the country have also grown over the last few decades, and then I am not just talking about the White River to the White River. The opportunity to build the whole country lies before Iceland, and we have to do it systematically. We've got to make sure we're all around the country. We need to open more portals into the country. First and foremost, we need more equations to live on the land. I've mentioned in the past that we need to be more efficient in setting up the background glasses in all our activities and as well as take further steps to ensure the arrival of the inhabitants of the country to make decisions, such as that it should be conditioned that in the administrations of public enterprises and institutions, representatives are always outside the capital area. Mr. President. But most of all, I want to challenge the Senate, challenge the budgetary committee especially to have my eyeglasses on the work of the future financial agenda, for that is important for the future of the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u22	A respectable president. This report is presented at the General Assembly in accordance with the new provision of the Surgeon Act, which says that the Secretary of Ministers should inform the General of Disease Control procedures by monthly reporting, as the operation has lasted longer than two months. I have had the opportunity to have a word with the General before now, according to this law. It is safe to say that the pandemic situation in this country is good. We have been successful in fighting the epidemic, and the results are thanks to the whole nation. We have stuck together, we have followed the rules, we have shown caution and endurance during these unprecedented and challenging times. In a new survey of Gallup, people in Iceland were asked for a position on government treatments for Covid-19. The conclusion is that a total of 92% of the population are satisfied with the actions. There is a small difference between the measures taken by farm and those who measure perfectly satisfied, very happy, or rather contented are a total of 92%, as stated earlier, the same conclusion, whether to Reykjavík, a neighboring group or to other rural members of the country. It is very good to see these findings and feel that the measures taken by the outbreak have been taken, and thanks are here for that. In Europe there are probably no smaller limits, but in this country right now and infinitely important is to maintain that good result and to be careful. For a while, it appeared that we could be getting a new group infection, but fortunately, it seems possible to prevent this from being diseased through a controlled process. For the past weekend, I was encouraged by a health - health professional to keep the meeting boundaries in my country largely unchanged. Yesterday, there were minimal changes in the measures taken by the prescriber that will take effect tomorrow, based basically on the prescriber's proposals and primarily on the increased requirements for the registration of the guests and aseptic techniques in relation to their events. There are also additional requirements for the disinfectants at the table. The time of this Regulation is up to 9 April. Rules of 50 people mass limit, a 2 meter rule, a mask in public transportation, stores, etc. thus, the aim of the epidemic to spread in the country remains meaningful. The above - mentioned medical address he sent to me this weekend suggests changes in the cross-border operation. These suggestions are given in a ministry examination, and they will be reported in detail when the decision is final. Yesterday, however, we reported a change in proof of vaccination against Covid-19 and proof of previous confirmed Covid infection taken on the Iceland border whether it originated in the EEA or outside the same criteria as the prescriber's instructions. Subjects who present such Witnesses do not need to have a sample or a scour or a evidence of a negative PCR test on the border. " By permission of the president, " says a D.A. surgeon's memo. A certificate of vaccination and proof of previous Covid infection outside the EEA will be taken as a valid certificate in the EEA area. The same requirements will be given for all Witnesses. It's a motion from a D.A.D. I'm going to do everything I can. A ban on cross-border crossings under the Minister of Justice will be changed so that the general prohibition against unprovoked third citizen's movements across the outer border does not reach individuals with the required certificate. This is also totally in accordance with the motion of an aesthesiologist. Vaccinations are successful in this country. Now 13% of the population have received the first dose of vaccine or both. There are 36,755 individuals. From the beginning of the year, we at the Ministry of Health diagnosed that there were about 45,000 individuals who had received a vaccine in this country at the end of March, but according to our estimates, this figure will be about 43,000 people, so that our plans will be successful. A new survey of MMR conducted in March 2021 shows a high level of vaccination. Approximately 94% of the population have received or planned to receive a vaccination against Covid-19 and it is positive that much more of the population intends to receive this vaccine. The distribution schedules for the second quarter of the year are not available but are expected to deliver them soon. Vaccination's good all over the country. Vaccination of a healthcare professional vaccinated with AstraZeneca has been temporarily delayed as a precautionary measure due to reports of potential adverse reactions. The case has been investigated by the European Medicines Agency and is expected to be a result of this study tomorrow. As a result, the decision to continue the use of the product will be taken in this country. [[The president calls.]] Then the Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik began to be evaluated by the European Medicines Agency's Committee for Interpretation during the days, and the Icelandic government is monitoring the development of events with the pharmaceutical company.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u23	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. The health minister is eager for this review. The decision to open the land, as it were, has now been made. To date, visitors outside the Schengen have had to have more reason to come here, thus indicating that those outside the Schengen area have had to have a very serious job effort, with a certificate of it, or seeing a family or something like that. Today, all who have proof of it need to point it out, and the decision is immediately made whether any action needs to be taken. This has been done by most European countries, and we had this way for a while last year. I wondered now, since a chief police officer at the Cheflavík Airport said in the media, with permission of presidents: This makes it easier to turn back those who cannot come here... But this also guarantees that we will see all passengers coming here, who are and where they come from. So I want to ask the highest. Why this passage had not taken place before and for all time? From my knowledge, this seems to provide a better perspective and a greater transparency in cross-border translucency.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u24	A respectable president. As has been observed repeatedly in this discussion about the treatment prevention measures in Iceland, whether within the country or on the border, we have had the same behaviour, and in fact, it is in accordance with the contracting laws, that the Center for Disease Control at any time based on the information available. When I get a memo this weekend that a vaccination certificate for previous vaccination should be accepted, not only against the EEA but also outside the region, a pathologist will base it on studies and information on vaccine effectiveness. It states that the same requirement for all Witnesses is met, i.e. Whether their source is in the EEA or outside. While it is decided by a health - care professional, it is certainly a national law against crossing borders with the Minister of Justice, as noted, and will be changed so that the general ban on the unprovoked third - state will not reach individuals with adequate proof of the kind mentioned above. The motion of a pathologist is based solely on the coherence and objective views in this regard. So that's why I'm making this adjustment to the Regulation this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u25	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much. I'm just gonna go over to the other part of this reportbook. Most people are now waiting on land and elsewhere for a vaccine. Everything is going on in the back of the European Union and it can be read in the local media that the European Union itself, or its manager, sold to other non-EU vaccines. This is done at the same time as Member States are forbidden to go on that journey independently despite a slow walk within the relationship. The delivery schedule is not yet set for the second quarter, so I want to ask the highest. Health Minister: When it was decided to hang out with the European Union, was there never at any time considered whether we should go independently as an independent nation in conversation with the company of vaccines? And the other: Was it never checked whether we could cooperate with Britain, which has shown amazing results in the acquisition and gifts of the vaccines to its citizens and in the strength of its independence?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u26	A respectable president. I am absolutely convinced that the decision to travel with the European Union in these matters was right. We have been at the table with the Norwegians who have also gone this way, and we believe that by this approach we have received access and access to treaties and information less accessible. This does not change the fact that there may be other possibilities. I just haven't heard of them, and I haven't heard people say anything about anything other than going along with the European Union in these matters. On the other hand, I completely share it with the other hand. A senator says it is long time for us to get information about the delivery plan for the quarter of the two.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u27	A respectable president. First, I'd like to celebrate the decisions made yesterday, both by the highest degree. Secretary of health and the highest. Minister of Justice, about finally opening up the country to some extent using the method determined yesterday, to accept a valid vaccination certificate from countries from around the world, thus opening up free movement, for legitimate purposes, including, of course, legitimate purposes. from our greatest friends nations, the United States, Britain, and Israel, where all three countries have been blessed with marvelous results in vaccinations. However, I have expressed my opinion on the conduct of this decision, as well as yesterday, and I would like to make a decision here that I give a warning that for a permanent or long time there will be a rule of national or national values that will limit cross-border exposure to vaccinations. I think it would be a mistake, and not in accordance with the vision I hope most of the people here have, that men can run away from free heads when they cross borders for legitimate purposes. But I didn't mean to discuss it specifically. I just wanted to make this right. I wanted to say that man's adaptability is very strong and that he is the highest reference. The health minister to the surveys on the satisfaction of the people of the country for disease prevention is testifying. However, the fact is that unemployment is far more widespread than just the income of those who lose their jobs. Many studies we have seen over the years have shown that severe emotional damage, psychological damage, and health harm result from long - term unemployment. In this context, I would like to ask the highest. Healthcare Ministers whether the Ministry of Health or any of the institutions I now think have a large number on their own, including the U.S.A. Public health officials, which was a great fashion phenomenon here, at least A few years ago, an expert in this field. Have these and other health experts evaluated the health consequences of the disease - related measures in particular for loss of employment?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u28	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for tearing his point on these matters, and especially for pointing out the fact that 92% of the nation are satisfied with the preventive measures taken, since they reflect moderate and deliberateness and are the smallest limits of daily life in Europe. Hv. A senator in particular asks about public health, pointing out that these views were in fashion at some point in the past. I want to make sure of what. A senator for public health purposes is the health authorities and society's affairs every day. It is my Constitution at this council to submit a synopsis proposal for public healthism. Hv. A senator asks if there is any such tasks in the pipes involved in monitoring public health and possible mental health problems that may result from disease control and/or unemployment, etc. So it is to answer that I have initiated two national health - care groups in cooperation with a surgeon's office and, in fact, under the direction of the office where others are expected to monitor special public health and public health policies throughout the epidemic, and not only through the epidemic and through the epidemic, but also, by means of the treatment strategy, and most certainly, by the social impacts we have seen everywhere. This is where unemployment is the most serious. The other control group is especially alert to mental health because we have reason to believe that there will be an indirect and direct effect on the epidemic. It is of great importance to monitor these possible changes as hard as it is when the epidemic is over, because we need to be ready to intervene and have finished and have taken care of here from the council in special funds of 540 million. K. This year in 2020 and so on, in order to improve the support of mental - health services throughout the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u29	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear that these matters are in the inspection right now, i.e. This is the case with psychological and mental effects, such as the highest degree. Minister calling. I reiterate what I mentioned earlier that the consequences of unemployment are, of course, beyond that. There are also direct health consequences of unemployment compared to the figures we see in Iceland, numbers we haven't known in decades here, including among young people I think I can claim that I saw the unemployment figures up to 26% on the Smokejanes, over 20,000 people out of work, or at some level, for a year soon. These numbers are frightening and very important to identify with the use of disease prevention measures. That's why I used to wonder, too, when I was at the highest level. A minister noted that she launched these groups today whether it was now not reasonable to weigh the consequences of their actions in this respect when it was decided to use various measures to prevent this epidemic. I took note of yesterday's Norway's news reports, which feature a very hard operation that many people wonder about - some 250,000 people have been vaccinated in Norway, but the cost - is taken up there by one professor after another, a professor of psychology who specifically notes that these severe measures are under attack without comparing the cost to the results. A professor of law also expressed himself about these actions, and in view of the occasion and the cause, the Norwegians felt that they were in a very gray area. I have also mentioned in a talk about the recent study report of the Danish Council, which covered all the sterilization procedures in Denmark with regard to its administration, that it provides a special indication of the Danish study report that it is important that at the beginning of such a crisis, if you want to assess it, this kind of epidemic, have established a group of people, or at least job to examine the effectiveness of action and motive, including The economic consequences of public health in a much broader light than in the pandemic. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: Would it not have been necessary to make this assessment, this weight on the balances at the start?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u30	A respectable president. It is this way in Iceland that because of the way the disease - control laws are conceived, there are great responsibilities placed on the health - care professional, such as the dog. A senator knows, about making a suggestion with a minister each time. Then it is the Minister and the Ministry to review the proposals and weigh them in the light of the principles of the administrative court and other relevant views. We have repeatedly done so, and we know that we have emphasized that these data are all available. I think it would have been difficult to plan something in advance, say in February more than a year ago, about an epidemic that we knew very little about how it would pass over. But I can assure you what. A senator that I had faster hands when it was time to start these controlled groups. I also want to make clear what happened in my first response, that we have emphasized in all this epidemic that our actions were as mild as possible, i.e. This social action. We have put emphasis on what is called in the everyday speech of personal disease, which is a total of 20 feet [2 m] rule, hand washing, and masking. And in the final analysis, what is truly the most important thing in success in preventing disease is disease. We've never used the heavy measures we've seen in some countries around us, I'll mention to form Britain because of the problem. A senator specifically mentioned it earlier, i.e. An curfew, which is not only a reduction in daily life but also a significant blow to the entire activities and activities of the community. The best way for society is to keep it as open as possible. However, it is very important, and I agree with what is said in the words. A senator, that our biggest and biggest problem in the community today is unemployment. Long - term lack of work is something that Icelandic society should not accept.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u31	Mr. President. There's been a water break. By their decision to make changes in the treatment laws at an additional meeting on Monday and to open up completely on the arrival of people from green countries, the government has ceased to obey the advice of a DG not to take up the color code on May 1, so that it is too limited. This, along with the decision of the Minister of Justice, opens the country even more during the fourth wave of Europe. In the news, a health - care professional has confirmed that these decisions do not agree with him. Not in agreement with a DC surgeon, Mr. President. On the same day that the government made that decision, she gave green light in the market of tourism officials that Iceland is open and ready to receive tourists. This decision is made without proper consultation with the council and without any discussion. Mr. President. We've been in a dream position, and we're in a dream position because we're in a good job together with the government of Disease Control. Are we going to fuck up that position? No, I don't think any of us do. That's why I'm asking the highest. Healthcare Minister: What is the precise explanation for the removal of counsel from a pathologist? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u32	A respectable president. Hv. I'm sure a senator has missed my history here. The decisions made today are based on the memo made by a pathologist. " Again, " says a Dentist's memo, "by permission of a president: A certificate of vaccination and proof of previous Covid infection outside the EEA will be taken as a valid certificate in the EEA area. The same requirements will be given for all Witnesses. This is what prepares my decision to change the Regulation as well as the decision of the Minister of Justice on a regulations that are bound to cross-border. Hv. A senator mixes two points with what the government has decided and actually did in January by a press release, objecting to aim for the European Commission's color code since May 1. [[The president calls.]] But there's another thing, and I pray. A senator must keep this separate.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u33	Mr. President. I didn't miss the history of the highest. Healthcare Minister, however, would like to continue my questions because the public interest is about control. Taking them back and relaxing them and opening up tourists with a market campaign is extremely difficult. It is a political decision that the government must fully uphold. That's a big responsibility. At best, if everything goes well - hopefully, I repeat - we get valuable tourists who will bring the necessary money into the Icelandic economy and tourism but at worst we will see the spread of the virus. That responsibility must be shouldered by governments. What if the worst scene becomes more intense and we can live up to the fact that here we need to take quick steps back and close and tighten disease prevention? [[The president calls.]] Is the government ready for action plan or stage photos, as had to be done for the last summer after untimely compromises on the border that were properly criticized at the General Assembly? [[The president calls.]] Will the government be ready for plans, analyses, and scenarios? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u34	A respectable president. Once again: No decision has been made on cross-border measures and is consistent with the motion of a pathologist. None. There's the situation, and I'm waiting. A senator is to watch out for facts in his language. All suggestions made by a pathologist are based on the cohesion criteria. It is his view that he should lay the basis for any proposal with a health minister, and that is the decisions I have now made. Regardless of where people are coming from, what is the position of taking the same mark of testimony on the border? It's about certain equality ideas. But it doesn't change that we're going to make a very hard and specific demand for how these documents look, how this proof is secured, because it is very important to maintain the success we have achieved, and I expect us to agree on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u35	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Healthcare Minister for the report today. I believe this form has long proved its value. Both have the ability to do so. Congress officials have a direct discussion with the highest power. Secretary of health and the highest. A health minister can bring important information into this council, correct false or misunderstandings, or improve matters that are complex and often. It is natural for us to have a tremendous joy, and it is vital that 92% of the population are satisfied with the measures taken. I think it's important, too, what was said in the case of the highest order. Minister that in Iceland we now have one opening society in the world, and we have managed to cope with what could have been a group of infectious agents. In this, there are a lot of positive and important reports. I would like to use this time to ask and to have a place to speak to. A minister on what she thinks, now that we have a little experience in this, has benefited us in the best way of achieving this success, not only in controlling the virus but also in the way that the vast majority of the population are content with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u36	A respectable president. That's a good question. A senator's main credit is that we have both a good position in the local epidemic and a great general support to the preventive measures. I think there's a lot of things in there, but maybe first of all, I'd like to mention that we're a relatively small community, we're a useful community, we're a community with little information and a conversation. We have also had the wisdom to make sure that we base our decisions on knowledge. I think that's absolutely basic. And I would also like to say that our results can also be attributed to the fact that we are ordering and inducing every infection that arises. This has been accomplished in cooperation with public and Icelandic genetics, and it is unique. It is a unique cooperation that has led to our having the eyes of the most successful scientists in each of our own diseases, its sequencing, its traceage, and then the decision of infection and isolation, which we have done with great success and in extremely good cooperation with society. The principle is that people have been in arms and joints in these measures.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u37	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I can say that, and I think that's absolutely right. A minister notes that the transparency, that we are a useful community, and that decisions made were based on knowledge. I want to underline it, and I think it is also of utmost importance what an Icelandic scientific community is able to communicate knowledge to the public so that we all understand what is going on and what is expected of us, so we can share in the success of things. I think this is gonna matter now if we can tell the next phase we're going to. I thought it was important what was presented in the case of the Minister that all certicates taken here meet the same criteria. V.E.G. Only other vaccines were introduced by a minister at the end of his report. I'd like to ask about it. Is this something that we may expect to become a bit shiny, to know, and to understand the discussion, i.e. continue this discussion about the vaccines, what do we expect of them, and what will be considered valid according to this trend? I think it is such a vital point that it is the same scientific requirement that the vaccines must meet. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u38	A respectable president. In order to be stated here only again, the motion of a DGA is about the level of national legislation that can be taken into account by the first international vaccination certificate that we all know and secondly the certificate that is comparable to the one used in Europe for the vaccine having been vaccinated with the one that has been accepted in Europe. So it is also misunderstood. Then we're talking about these things we know, AstraZeneca, Modernna, Pfizer, and now Janssen. That's the exit point. And third proof of a previous infection or a specific certificate of antibody. Yeah, I think we'll learn a lot of lessons from this round, but it's not over yet. I'm especially glad that I feel that we all have been happy in not making the virus political bitterbones. In many parts of the world, political groups have wanted to take advantage of the fight against the virus to raise political positions temporarily rather than to work together in the fight against the virus. It has been a principle here, and for that, we can thank you too. But I'd also like to say that I think that with the people of the country, we're kind of used to interact with the scientists in the field of geology, and we do it naturally in nature. So I think we're quite trained in communicating with and trusting and understanding scientists.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u39	A respectable president. Thank you for your report, Minister, and it's a pleasure to hear that. A health minister would think that some 43,000 people will be vaccinated by the end of this month if I understood her words correctly in the report. It's definitely supposed to be a celebration, and it's going to change the station enormously out of public health, I suppose. One down. Yet, a senator came to see the importance of keeping in mind and honor of human rights and limitations, even though a pandemic would be the case. In time, the world will return to its former condition, and those human rights might as well be returned to its cities. In a review of today's News Journal, the First Fathers of Ámundadóttir speaks of this matter and says, on permission of the president: ▪ It is reasonable to conclude that people are happy for both things; good for the fight against epidemics and moderate measures. This does not change the tolerance of the unprecedented violation of freedom of the citizens of the city for a year, but it does not make it normal for them to have much concern, as few people would have believed for a year that the nation would accept such human rights problems as expressed in reality. But let's talk about disease prevention. I'm going to go to the top of the questions. Healthcare Minister: The effectiveness of different disease prevention measures, i.e. by stopping the virus from spreading on the other hand and by reducing its damage? If so, how is this measured? What conclusions can be drawn from available data and information on the effectiveness of individual measures? How have information on the results of individual disease prevention measures affected decisions about further measures? [[The president calls.]] How much experience is looked forward to when making decisions about new actions?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u40	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good and important subject. I think it's absolutely important that we never miss the human rights discussion when we talk about these matters, I agree with the senator on that. On the other hand, I believe that, fortunately, we are all here at the General Assembly of Human Rights, and I believe that this means a great deal more of the nation. Happily, it is part of an Icelandic society, a society that wants to be identified with human rights. Hv. A senator asks, if I correctly understand the questions, about the interaction between the individual preventive measures at the purpose of the procedure at any given time and the decision to make for a particular operation at any given time, and whether we are building up experience, as the epidemic implies. As a psychiatrist himself says, there are, of course, a number of operations at all times, and finding out how we're doing with a 2 meter rule, how successful we are with alcohol, what results we make in a mask, with the number of limits, etc., because these are measures that all play together. However, they are all based on the knowledge of traveling elders and their behaviours gradually, on knowledge of Covid-19 and on how the epidemic behaves. As the vaccine grows in the community, there is a natural reduction in the need for community control measures, which is part of the viewpoint that lays the groundwork for a disease - control doctor's proposal for me. However, the primary objective has always been to protect the most vulnerable groups, where we see a series of vaccinations, and to make sure that our health - care system survives the strain.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u41	President. Thank you very much. A health minister for the answers. That's exactly what I'm talking about. To make informed decisions as to how to follow the procedure, we need to weigh and collect experience. But to some extent, I was asking about action within the country, decision making out of Icelandic reality, our reality, and how to evaluate the results of the sterilization procedures within the country. That's why I, a respectable president, would like to ask the highest question. Healthcare Minister: To what extent, decisions on disease prevention are based on data from foreign institutions such as the World Health Organization and the European Health Organization, and on the national history of action. Where's the line? Similarly, I would like to ask a secretary if she believes that there is a lack of resources and/or funding to conduct national data collections and research on the benefits of the disease prevention procedures in this country. We are, of course, like our neighbors in many ways. On the other hand, the way Iceland lived differs. Is it possible to explain that there has been no need for a curfew because there are other lifestyles and there is another personality in society and how we live our lives? For a year they have had preventative measures, and they have been burdensome, even though they have not been as burdensome as anywhere else. Therefore, I would like to ask the minister: "How has this been conducted in our country?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u42	A respectable president. I'd like to use this opportunity to thank you especially for your cooperation with what. The management and monitoring committee, which has called for exactly what has happened. A senator is asking about, i.e. Logistic support and subconsistencies under disinfectants. I know why. A senator has also had a seat and a seat at rest. a well - being committee that has been discussed on the treatment laws. And the senator knows very well the opinions that are always dependent on how you reason with such a decision, especially when it comes to decisions that are actually taking place on important rights. Of course, such decisions are very burdensome. Hv. A senator asks what advice was made or what role models we have or where we view when making decisions. I would like to answer that, in the north, a psychiatrist has a very close relationship with his colleagues, first of all, they talk very much. It is also Europe's CDC, which has had a great deal of cooperation and consultation. It is a consultation and conversation between the Ministers of Health, both in the countries of the North and also in Europe, and we are in cooperation with the World Health Organization on a global scale and in one of the European departments. Fortunately, this has been the case, although there is no good, that Iceland has been looked upon as well. The way we do things has been adjusted, and some have adopted the methods we have been using. Then, in particular, I refer to border action, but also to certain measures within the country, such as those subject to cross-infection, which we have used here with great success.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u43	A respectable president. Thank you very much. HCP orally reporting on the Sepsis and vaccinations against Covid-19 which feel the report, such as previous reports, is illuminating. It is now nearly springtime, vaccination, and the battle against the crown virus that is going very well here in the country, and it is running low in every aspect of society. I feel that there is still reason to remember it and to think that this past year we have experienced the time that none of us expected, even though we have learned about biology that we could always have a pandemic. But we have also experienced the unique time and cooperation of the international community, the international scientific community, and the politics around the world, with clear goals set out for the development of vaccines and for cooperation and agreements on research and development, and now we have the right to use four different types of vaccines on the land. However, delivery schedules have moved forward and forward in time only, as can be expected when working with such sensitive materials as vaccines. It is therefore difficult to point to a date when the vaccination is completed. Perhaps more important is the fact that we realize how much of the nation needs to be vaccinated so that even if it remains in personal protection, it is not always easy to relax within the country. That's why I ask: Is there a calculus that shows an interaction between the disease prevention and the number of vaccinees? Or, in other words, when will the likelihood of infection and serious illness become reduced to a significant loss of control within the country? How are we going to find it out? Then I would like to ask about the situation of those who still have serious consequences of Covid and whether adequate rehabilitation measures are present.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u44	A respectable president. First, in terms of rehabilitation and follow-up to experienced individuals who have experienced serious sequelae after illness with Covid-19, we have had special attention to this. On the one hand, through the special funding that has been allocated to rehabilitation for this group, which was 200 billion. K. last year, which we filled primarily for services to that group, as well as for rehabilitation in general, and Smoke groves has been at the head of that subject. However, we have had to consider that by means of the Center for Health Care for Health Care, these symptoms know and can continue to counsel people, both those with less symptoms, as well as those who may need more advanced or more specific services. Regarding the model of this interaction, there is a prospective model where we can see this interaction more clearly, i.e. the impact of the epidemic on the health system, the health pressures, etc., taking into account differences in the course of vaccination and the like. It is very important in my opinion that such a model exists even though plans change because these combinations with the vaccine manufacturers are already two steps forward and one steps back, and we are quite seared in it. But such a model would certainly improve and be built.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u45	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. As we have considered in this discussion and announced by the government yesterday, the country will be open on May 1 or the border limits will change. After that, people with a negligible risk of not carrying Covid infection are required to carry them under aseptic conditions if they are able to demonstrate proof of vaccination or previous transmission and have been repeatedly shown here that the certificate has to meet the same criteria as that stated within the country. In addition, yesterday's previous decision from January was due to the date of 1st of May based on the European Commission's colour code of the environment. These reports are of enormous importance to people and companies who intend to be ready for divorce in all areas of society, and we know that they will be traveling there to play a tremendously important role. So the day was a big day for the Icelandic economy and the Icelandic tourism service in which tourism is now taking place to organise its activities, at least To some extent, for the summer and to make decisions on staff recruitment, although there are certainly some forms of uncertainty upstairs. Therefore, I would like to proceed with a previous question about the interaction between the cross-border activities and the implementation of vaccinations within the country in conjunction with the national likelihood of cross-infection, which would refer back to the debate on the calculus. Will further decisions to take on the border depend on the likelihood of cross-infection in countries where tourists come from, some kind of color code, or is this interaction? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u46	A respectable president. As mentioned in the question of why. That's what a senator is, because, in the final analysis, it is the most precious thing we have from day to day in our country and all our decisions and measures must take into account because we do not risk that outcome. However, all of this must be reflected in moderate design, etc. Therefore, I'd like to insist that yesterday's decision was made according to the guidance of a DG's recommendation that the proof of vaccination be taken valid on the border and proof of infection, i.e. if you have already received Covid This certificate has been in force in Iceland since January 21, so the change is that it applies not only to people in the EEA but to all. If they have proof of this kind, they can come into the country. But the proof needs to be so that they would pass an examination within the EEA, so there is not just any proof, but they need to meet very strict requirements and strict conditions. The color encoding system of the European Environment Agency is set up with a set system that determines the distribution of the infectious virus in the respective region. Then someone might think, " Yes, but if we just stop testing, don't we all come out with green land? ' But that's not how it is because if we're trying very few and we don't test enough mass of people, the country's going to be gray and it works like dark red in these systems. [[The president calls.]] So it is that you are involved and that allows you to calculate approximately where the land lies and measures take into account.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u47	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you very much. A health minister for the discussion we are having today and has had these matters. I think it's very good to report to the highest level. A minister is as regular as he has been. I'm gonna keep this brief. All of us know that the community has made great sacrifices, though much more. The economic blow has been heavy, but it is not easy. It may be a mark of all this struggle that they are very different, the strokes of society that have been lost. I'm interested in knowing when we're approaching the former normal norm here within the country. We're so lucky that the situation in this country is very good, I don't think there's any other way to describe it. What's the big deal? A minister in that regard, and in view of what is being proclaimed here today? Will be the greatest of these changes. Minister of Justice possibly to slow down the process of giving normal lives back to the people of this country?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u48	A respectable president. My short answer is no, because we require that people be vaccinated or have other adequate proof that they have previously been infected with Covid-19 or have antibodies. We will be very demanding for these data and statements and the same requirements that we have made since January, to those in the EEA. But this does not change the fact that the epidemic is still on its course. And that doesn't change the fact that we see mutants that are very dangerous and may be very tricky. We see a neighboring state, such as the last Norway, who has undergone such action. Because I want to be able to answer questions. A senator as to when and when we can begin to live normal lives, and I think it is very important to be able to support it in any way, so that, according to the current vaccination scheme, with all the warnings in it, but while the rest of AstraZeneca is now waiting, we assume that in April we were vaccinated 70 years of age and older, we were there. It is natural to be very careful of our most vulnerable groups. Danir has been more Taxier than the health authorities here in saying: It is reasonable to say that Denmark achieves the goal of vaccinating those over 50 in mid - June and that there will be no need to continue with preventative measures. That's what Danir said. We haven't gone so far as to say this because we want to keep more warnings on our presentation. To think about it, of course, we have a similar delivery plan and the same basic purchase of vaccines.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u49	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. They're happy. Of course, there's a lot of information that will now be involved in the public in this country and I'd appreciate it at great cost if the steps currently being taken would have to wait longer for the public at home. It is important to get to shore as soon as possible, especially in the light of the sacrifices that the common people have made. My question in this second round to the highest. The minister is, then, the presence of any economic analysis on the intended effect. I realize they're meant to be. But there is some analysis of the expected economic benefits of these changes now, what will it mean for the Icelandic economy to take these steps?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u50	A respectable president. Just to be said first in my second answer, because of what. A senator wonder again whether there is reason to worry about the effects of changing the border on the proposed reduction of measures within the country, so this is so that the memory sheet I receive from a psychiatrist right now, which includes the suggestion that the vaccination certificate and proof of a previous infection are accepted regardless of where they come from, is a recommendation based on knowledge of environmental protection provisions. There are preventative beds that lie behind it, so I assume the psychiatrist is completely open to this. However, as a result of economic analysis, there are, of course, post-hoc analysiss that have been ongoing, are in progress, and are being carried out by the Ministry and the Ministry, the Ministry of State, etc., both on individual measures, on the effects of alcohol prevention measures, and particularly on economic and occupational life.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u51	A respectable president. I say like what? paritaprevir I am grateful for this important discussion before my daughter, Gunnlaugsdóttir, the daughter of Gunnoll. No one has ever missed that I have wanted to go to the ground with great care when it comes to moving on the border and import of the virus. We're just about through the wind, and I think it's as good as one who controlled it as anything else that we're not already dealing with the fourth wave of the epidemic. I'm here to point it out, too. A senator and those who have entered the highest power. Healthcare Ministers on the basis of what benefits are actually being carried out on the currently proclaimed border. At the same time, I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers, they must know, when they speak of moderate behavior and that we are to go free of restrictions or restrictions within the country, they must realize the danger of simply gaining more pressure. It's like the highest. Health Ministers have pointed out, and most people know about the epidemic as never before. It is only very disturbing news from Norway that, in fact, nearly 40% of newly infected people are children of their middle school age. But I would like to ask the highest. Health Minister: Has she gone into places where I've checked where I can buy myself a fake vaccine certificate for 25 bucks? I'm going to point out that proof doesn't look any different than genuine certicates. Nor would it be a good testimonial if it did not look like the proof that should ensure that we have a genuine record on the job when we are going to receive witnesses and let them enter the country without their control or any real possession. I want to know about this, even though there is not much more.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u52	A respectable president. Hv. A senator is concerned about counterfeit Witnesses. It is of utmost importance that great care is given to ensure that national standards for the safety of the Witnesses laid down there. This is why so far, and a DG surgeon will make rules and criteria for staff on the border. Hv. A senator says that he was with us about reaching through the fourth wave. It was, of course, but also that we have a very aggressive operation that we will take when these few of us become infected, and we have very serious transmissions and contagions to cover the waves. Our methodology is bringing us results. A psychiatrist says in a memo for me, and there I think I'm a psychiatrist, okay? A senator and the person standing here agree completely that it is important to maintain the good results we have obtained and that is not least about arrangements on the border. Of course, that's very important. That is why a psychiatrist suggests that we start testing children on the border. He also proposes to investigate whether we use a powerhouse more than we have ever done, and especially in the case of findings where the person has a positive sample of a mutant.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u53	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A health minister for the answer, but she did not answer a question as to whether she saw such a counterfeit certificate that she could easily purchase through the Telegraph social network and cost 25 dollars. It would be interesting to consider whether the disease - control authorities are not sure to cover the well in this regard. Then there's the highest name. Healthcare Minister earlier, we are taking care of the individuals who are experiencing sequelae and who suffer from long-term sequelae of Covid. They've been helped by Smokeyund, but now the news has reached the end of the Smokeloaf and shutting down this help is to hope that a conversation with the health insurance will soon be resolved. A health minister there allows us to continue helping these people. There's a lot of people waiting, 50 on the waiting list if I get it right. I'd like to, in turn, ask the highest. A health minister whether it is clear that we will continue to help these people as soon as we hope we will prevent more people from going into this tragic situation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u54	A respectable president. First of all, regarding the help and appropriate health care of those who have been dealing with the aftereffects of Covid-19, I've put a lot of emphasis on it, as shown in my previous dealings with another member of Congress, that the information I'm getting is dealing with a smoking pool and Iceland's Medical Insurance is about some technical thing that's not supposed to be complicated. Smoking has done a great deal of good in caring for this group. About a question why. Since the senator's phone records are false, border guards are trained to evaluate, have been, and are. The presenting of faked data on the border to prison.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u55	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister very much for our report. It is important to be in this great relationship with the council and, of course, be happy if the council would be allowed to participate in a discussion before making decisions. But I realize it's not easy. 92% of the nation supports the activities that have been taken, and now it has been decided to change. This was shown in the case of the highest. Ministers that she has always followed a DP surgeon but that she has offered something else and has doubled out. Minister to the highest. A minister of justice would make decisions across the border, but the suggestions that have not been followed from a pathologist would be considered. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is it clear that it is fully following the advice of a health care professional, but does it not have another minister in Iceland's government?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u56	A respectable president. I'm not surprised that this may sound confusing. First of all, when I review a D.A.'s proposal for cross-border measures, there are three that he basically suggests. First, what points to the testimony was discussed yesterday. Second, he speaks of children and that they need to be tested on the border, but for that, we need better planning. Third, there is a greater use of diseasehouses, or epidemics after incidents, related to the variant, etc. These are the suggestions provided by a disease - control doctor. The rules I have for the border are about the pre-emptive measures on the border. The Minister of Justice is in charge of a cross-border policy, and this changes the Regulation so that the general prohibition against unprovoked Third Citizens over external borders does not include individuals who have this adequate proof. [[The president calls.]] The conclusion is that we, both health - care minister and Minister of Justice, follow a motion made by a psychiatrist because he does not specifically discuss whether the person's movements are unprovoked or not. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u57	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. The decision to change borders seems to be independent of our success in vaccinations, but it is estimated that previous government vaccination schedules will not fully follow. We're getting reports tomorrow on AstraZeneca, which we've concluded with about 230,000 doses. This is, of course, the biggest part, and you wonder if we are not in very small trouble if this is not possible, if the European Medicines Agency cancels the marketing authorisation. I wondered, in view of the fact that Europol has warned against counterfeit Witnesses and vaccinations within the country may still be confused whether these decisions are taken, despite all warnings and belles.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u58	A respectable president. It is true that if we are in that position after tomorrow, if Astrazeneca is released from our plans, it will certainly have a powerful effect. If I recall correctly, we assume that 76,000 doses of this material are part of our second quarter plan. Without that number, our plans will be delayed. Similarly, we don't have plans for the Janssen in our panels. There we bought 235,000 doses because one dose is sufficient for each vaccination. This is now an example that drives back and forth, and it is of course important when we are considering the whole example of looking forward to the coming of the information from day to day. Tomorrow there is expected to be a result of the European Medicines Agency on AstraZeneca. [[The president calls.]] That conclusion will likely be the basis for the conclusion of the government, and on this basis we will make decisions about progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u59	A respectable president. I still want to thank you. Councilmen and presidents for good discussions and important matters. I've had a good feeling about this whole epidemic, but now it's been the 13th month of this cycle that we've been in here in Iceland, how general the situation is, not only in the community, but also in the council, with members wanting to use criticism, demand information, and assume that I'm an answer now that is actually improved. Our having conversations like those we've had today is one reason why we've been doing well. I can feel the answers and questions of all the senators who have shared today in the value of success in this country and the importance of taking every step carefully. I've always talked about it, and a Dentist's been there too. We will continue to do so, from now on, because, in the final analysis, the most important thing is that we get as whole out of this round, which has truly been unprecedented but has affected both human and economic health. But, fortunately, there is evidence that it is reduced to the other end, the wrestling with Covid-19. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u60	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize the alien law, No. 80/2016, No. 97/2002. The bill was originally submitted to a 149th legislature, but it did not succeed. The bill was then transferred to the 150th legislation panel with various additionals, which primarily included changes in certain terms of foreigners'rights for emancipation and legal rights for foreigners on temporary employment permits. Similarly, that bill was not fulfilled and is now reassigned by various changes. Main reports now include changes to certain legal requirements for foreigners in terms of the NTSB and the changes in the provision of a holding permit, particularly the granting of a provision on the basis of humanitarian grounds when material treatment has been denied in terms of protection, and the law on professional rights of foreigners on the right to work. This will give an explanation of individual regulations, as well as further explanation in a report in the light of a series of developments that have taken place since the introduction of the bill, as well as the development that has occurred following the Covid-19 pandemic. Global protection applications ranged from 800 to approximately 1,100 a year, in 2016◯2019. During 2020, applications were 654; this reduction is most strongly devoted to the biggest travel limit of the Covid-19 pandemic. The proportion of applications per 10,000 inhabitants in Iceland was the highest in 2020 compared to the rest of the countries, i.e. In contrast, 18 applications per 10,000 people were three per 10,000 people in Norway and Denmark. The composite group has also made significant changes. The majority of the applications received at the current sentence of foreigners in 2016 were due to unfounded applications from safe sources, or about 60% of applications, but in recent years they have been able to speed up their contracts by strengthening priorities. On the other hand, in Iceland applications for international protection have grown substantially among those who are looking for international protection once again, i.e. Those who have already been protected in another European country and have already received the assistance and rights available to the general citizens of the country. Last year, there were 50% of applications in this country from persons who had already received international protection in another country, and they went up to about 70% in the second half of the year. There has been a significant increase in the number of candidates who receive standard material treatment in this country, including those in the country. People who come from faraway lands and many who are fleeing from persecution in their own country. So it is time for some 400 people to accept service in this country while waiting for solutions to their application for international protection or return to another country. It is important that individuals who are looking for and entitled for international protection get their application done quickly and will be sure to start working on their effective adaptation into Icelandic society. The bill enables governments to provide an efficient and humane way of applying which in general does not lead to global protection and thus reduce the number of such applications. It is a fundamental precept that governments have space to focus on a group of candidates who are in need for protection and protection. These changes would also reduce the cost of government funds and improve the handling of public funds. I want to draw special attention to the fact that the bill has more important changes that are involved in things other than the protection system, such as changes needed to achieve due to commitments in the field of Schengen Community work. The bill is thus intended to face comments made on the induction and application of the European Parliament's Directive and the Council No. 2008/115/EC on evaporation, i.e. The deportation order, here on the land. Then new regulations are added to the alien law to provide the most efficient means of commitment to Iceland on the basis of the Schengen Containment. The bill has at last contained some changes in licenses and employment permits that I will further explain below. A respectable president. I will now explain the key elements of the bill. 1st When applying unfounded applications from candidates from safe sources apparently grew widely in this country a few years ago, the response was rapid. Therefore, the Minister of Justice for the priorities of such applications in Regulation No. 775/2017, on the change to the Regulation on the Novembering Regulation. 540/2017, it contained a definition of the term clearly unfounded application and prescribed the procedure for such an application. A member committee of foreigners came to the conclusion that certain regulations in this Regulation had not provided adequate improvement, so it is necessary to respond and eventually bring them into the foreign law. It is suggested in the bill that it should be further defined in the law when an application should clearly be considered unrecognizable and what it means to submit such a application for international protection in this country. 2. The development of 2020 and the rest of 2021 have shown a large increase in applications from candidates for international protection already protected in other European countries. You need to respond to this situation, which may include: Based on the fact that the legal environment in this country has special advantages compared to other European countries. The management board must be able to deliver applications within an acceptable time and in the most efficient way. It is important that candidates get answers as early as possible and not have to wait for long to be unsure, as well as that candidates do not need to be served while the application is for longer than necessary. Therefore, it is suggested in the bill that decision-making decisions regarding material treatment are automatically charged with the NTSB and that there are no special reasons and no special links to individuals already protected in another European country. At the same time, it is suggested that governments, on their own, take into account whether to provide protection to a foreigner who has already been protected in another state but has been denied physical treatment, a permit on the grounds of humanity. This addition provides a search for ways that can be done without taking out any evaluation on the basis of specific relationships or reasons, but also without the creating of our laws relative to other countries. If this route is beginning to take place, the time of the cases in the system is reduced and candidates are evaluated for the condition of a dwelling permit on the basis of the humanitarian grounds following loss of material treatment. 3. The bill suggests changes, first of all, to the family unit of refugees that will come to a country under government command, i.e. enteric people, and second, the family unit of refugees protected here by their application for international protection. On the one hand, it is suggested that the law on granting permission to the population of Canaanite residents under 73 C.E. is clearly stated. foreign shapes. On this basis, hostilities in general will have the same right to family unity as to other foreigners, according to VIII. the part of the law. According to the United Nations Refugee Organization, the family's unity before the arrival of dawners in Iceland is recognized in particular, but not all members of the family are mentioned in the Agency's reports. In order to meet this group, the bill refers to the Regulation on the distribution of the residents in special cases for the immediate members of the host of the host. However, it is suggested that the individuals who come to the country on the basis of family harmony with an individual who has been granted international protection in this country do not have the same authority. This adjustment suggests that only individuals who have been protected internationally in Iceland can get their closest members to the country on the basis of family unity. To meet this change, the law is extended to the point that it also applies to the stepchildren of the original international protection. In this way, it is guaranteed, first of all, that the members of the arrangement will be able to handle the same rights as the second, and third, to prevent the possible misuse of the system. 4. A new selection, repeated application, is proposed for the special handling of repeated applications that enables candidates for international protection to be revised in their decisions on the basis of new data and/or information. It replaces routine repercussion under administrative law and is specially tailored to the protective system to provide better efficiency for its handling and to better explain the rightness of the individuals in this position. The concept follows its pattern in the Council Directive and the Council No. 2013/32/EU, on minimum requirements for treatment of hosting and revocation of refugees, or on the treatment order. 5. Changes are made to respond to comments following review of the participation in Iceland in the Schengen Community work carried out in 2017. In particular, they shift to the induction and application of Iceland's deportation directive, such as the management of evaporation procedures and the granting of voluntary exodus, the right effects of the exodus, the decisions on the length of the return sites and their delinquency, the police's permission to monitor people of the country and the necessary regulations so that the commitments of Iceland to the Schüngen case can be introduced as most efficient. Iceland is committed to reacting to these comments, and now that the next review of the monitoring committee starts, it is urgent to put the adjustment through. 6th The bill suggests that the final treatment deadline is to determine whether or not an application for the material management of the country will be based on the period when the case is completed at the administrative level, i.e. final result for the Commission of Foreign Affairs. The current vague wording of the current deadline has led to the application of the time that the applicant leaves the country. The arrangement is suggested to take into account the wording of a comparable law on the granting of a provision of a permanent dwelling for humanitarian reasons. 7. In February 2020, for instance, the rules for foreigners were changed to shorten the government's maximal treatment period in the case of children. The bill suggests that this change will be legalized, allowing a child to be granted leave-authorized leave on welfare grounds if he did not get a conclusion in his case at administrative level within 16 months instead of 18 months, as per current regulations. 8. In view of experience and the number of litigators of the foreign committee in recent years, it is suggested that the number of members of the committee be increased. This is thought to be necessary to improve the effectiveness and flexibility of the committee. With other members of the committee, the Committee can include found more frequently which will return to a shorter treatment period. 9. Experience from the implementation of non-supervised children applying for international protection in this country has shown that these cases often take a long time in spite of the government's desire to speed up emergency measures as far as possible. In current law, the Foreign Institute is obliged to look for information from the Children's Protection Agency before making a decision in the case of an escorted child. It is necessary to change the procedure in such a way that the above statements apply only when it comes to refusing an escorted child to remain on the land. The change aims to reduce the extent of the cases that must be carried under the Children's Institute and to shorten the treatment period for children who are accompanied by an international protection or permit on land. 10. The implementation of the laws of foreigners has revealed that a few of their terms on residence licenses are needed to clarify the procedure and action. So they are proposed to make adjustments in certain legal arrangements for authority rights. Is even suggest that the doctors may be in this country when they apply for the first time and that they must be allowed to provide a foreigner who has lost his job requiring the expertise of residence for three months so that he may seek another profession based on his expertise. It is then considered necessary to change two obligations of the alien law for the stay of young people in Iceland, on the one hand, for those who come on the basis of provisions, or for two years to stay here on land, instead of one year. However, changing the age conditions in the terms of a permit to live in Iceland's agreement with foreign countries and making it possible for those who stay on the basis of such a provision to stay in the country for up to two years. 11th In cooperation with Social Services, there is finally an adjustment in the legal rights of foreigners, No. 97/2002, for the version of temporary employment for special reasons. The bill suggests that foreigners who have been granted resuscitated on the basis of humanitarian views or special ties with the land under the laws for foreigners will be excluded from the provision of temporary employment permits in this country. The situation of these foreigners is thought to be such that there is no further requirement for their authority on employment management here. At the same time, this change will reduce the number of jobs at the labour agency, where for years such residence permits have been responsible for about half of the temporary activities published on the grounds of the law. V.E.G. President. Our course in foreigners is clear. Those who need protection are protected. That's how our system has always worked and will continue. Most important, those who seek international protection get a fair and careful trial. The increase in the number of applications last year shows the importance of responding so that those in need of international protection from persecution are quickly paid off. The protective system must be prepared and built in a way that allows for the best protection in this country. I've now made an explanation for all the key elements of the bill. Since the implementation of the laws of foreigners, they have been changed several times, and this bill is part of the required revision of the law. The bill also suggests changes in the laws on the employment rights of foreigners for the benefit of working in the country of foreigners. To this end, I suggest that the bill be after this discussion referred to why. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u61	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister to see if there is a physical bill that she put on April 11, last year, and a 1st issue. but never came to the 2nd. Then I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of Justice to see whether the government will approve of this bill within the government and whether it will be the highest power. Minister thinks it will be legal in the spring months. Also, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister only to 1 1. the bill on the case of repeated applications. Today, there are many cases where the hooligans who have asked for their release in this country for months, while they are in the progress of a government fund, receive a revelation. They leave the country at the expense of a government fund, but they do not long before they return to the country, seek refuge again, and go back to many months for their release. In the meantime, the government funds pay housing and alimony for the individual. In other words, the process is repeated over and over again, with the equivalent cost for state funds. There are four times the same party came here and received the same ministry four times. Is good enough for this possibility in 1 1. The bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u62	A respectable president. As I explained in my history, there are several changes in this bill from the last time I proposed a bill about changing these laws. That, in fact, is the case. We're on residence leave, D.A. Foreign Affairs, i.e. a growing number of dears, but also housing on the basis of the humanitarian reasons for anyone who has come to protect elsewhere. So the bill has made some adjustments, along with some other adjustments. There is also a changed age limit for youths and other regulations that I outlined in my historical history. Is it okay? I believe, as the bill is now, we are responding to the status of the system today, how we can better accept the group that needs international protection. But those who come here and have protection in another country have grown tremendously in recent months, where we stand in sharp contrast with countries in other parts of Europe.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u63	Mr. President. I want to pray to the highest. Minister to answer in the second, answer my question earlier on whether 1 1 1. I'm sorry there's a lot of times here, i.e. and on the part of the spoiler, and on the other side receive the ministry again and again. I asked you a question to the highest level. A minister of international protection and response recently arrived. It shows that candidates for international protection that came along with consent do not have to make proof of good conduct. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers, if it's not natural for those who get a permit here to supply proof of good conduct. Now it is, for example. A requirement for a citizen's right to present proof of good conduct.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u64	A respectable president. Yes, the purpose of this change is even. to prevent repeated recurrence requests and the definition of a comparable term is in the European Parliament's Directive. There is a basic requirement for international protection that candidates are in the country and that will fall if a person has left the country. However, all of this indicates that a repeated application should be dismissed, not followed by any new information that leads to a significant increase in the possibility that the person will be protected again. So this is supposed to be for most of it. About the second question why? The senator's proof of criminal record has not been required for candidates for international protection, as these people are fleeing, and people in general are expected to be looking for international protection and to flee from persecution. The evaluation is based on a number of other data submitted to the application for international protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u65	President. The text and rules are being interpreted in the best interests of the system. This bill includes increasing efficiency in a system that is already inhuman and hostile to people in a more sensitive position. For example, there is the way the Icelandic government has decided to cling to the explanation of national security. According to the bill's report, Hungary, Greece, and Italy are considered a secure re - broadcast state. It's just not right. A report on the September 22st, 2020, including the U.S.A. A study of the refugee camp at Lesbos reported that doctors without a border described the camp as hell on earth. How's the Ministry feel about it? Minister of Justice justified sending people back to a situation described as hell on earth, on the basis of what has been determined to define as unfounded applications, and to reimburse people in clearly dangerous situations because the Ministry cannot see its own properness in ensuring that the system can be present for those people who need what is needed most? [[The president calls.]] Believes at most. Therefore, the Minister of Justice, in fact, is that these changes are in the best interests of those who apply for international protection?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u66	A respectable president. Of course, I don't agree. Senator on today's system to be hostile. We are doing very well in comparison with other countries. We are receiving very many people, giving them international protection, very much supporting them according to all the guidelines and judgments we receive. We're looking at our system based on where we can fix it, answering people earlier who are just fleeing persecution. Then, too, it is wrong. Senator. People are not sent back to a refugee camp in Europe that has not provided protection but has applied for, for example. in certain countries where we treat these bodies. That is a way of going along with several other countries in Europe because we feel that it does not meet the conditions we set. But here we are talking about individuals who have already been protected, not just those who have applied for protection. We're making it a requirement that they be able to apply for housing on the basis of humanitarian reasons if their situation in that European country is that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u67	Then I'd like to ask about the section of the bill that's about a change in the law on living and working permit. It is set up as if it should be made to people who receive international protection on the basis of humanitarian grounds, it is easier to obtain a work permit, but it is really of no relevance if they have to accept access to applying for international protection on land. The change seems more likely to make it easier for educated individuals or expert workers to continue working here. Of course, it is in harmony with government policy over the past few years to be willing to bring people with education and money but to lead us individuals into more sensitive positions that have a much greater need for the protection of the system. Clearly, it doesn't matter what kind of song the importer is. This is a class exchange by people who choose to live here on land. This suggests a dramatic reduction in the rights of those in a delicate position and, at the same time, the people considered by the government to be acceptable foreigners. How to justify the supreme. The minister of justice of this priorities in a group of people? [[The president calls.]] You're on top of it. In view of what is stated by the Independence Party's policy on foreign affairs, by permission of a president, there is no problem with man - made, knowledge, and experience of immigrants who want to live and work here in the country, to be spoken of only by special foreigners? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u68	A respectable president. I just couldn't agree more. Senator. I wholeheartedly agree with the words she quotes in the Independence Party Summit, which has been my opinion that Iceland should stand more foreigners open than just individuals in the European Union to come and work and enrich our community. We're not making any money on this bill for a job permit. The employment permits are generally heard by the Minister of Social Affairs, and I would like to see extensive changes there, and that's what I've often described, and that's my sincere opinion. But in the bill, we are simply simplifying the applications of those who are given a leave permit on the basis of their humanity, and we are even opening the resources for a particular person who is being shown here because they have protection in another state. So here I think it's rather an opportunity to give the job permit to people who want to come to work here, get a living permit on the grounds of humanity, for a number of reasons, and simplify the process, not always have to apply again for employment permits. [[The president calls.]] Here is a very clear view for all of those who are looking here who want to work. [[The president calls.]] Of course, we should both do and do better, and that makes us feel that we are doing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u69	A respectable president. On page 18. 11 and 12 of the bill's report shows that from applications received between June 15 and the end of 2020, there were 70% cases from individuals who have already received international protection in Europe, such as Hungary, Greece, and Italy. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if she knows why these specified three countries are listed. In view of the tremendous growth involved, there is reason why. I know who she is. The Red Cross has repeatedly identified her identity, but it knows the highest. Minister of Justice who she is? How do these specific three countries appear in the text when applying with protection in those countries? Is that a coincidence? Why, Mr. Honorable President? I know the highest. Will Minister of Justice do that? The highest. The Minister of Justice Explains This?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u70	A respectable president. These three countries are named because they stand out as different from those who apply for international protection and have already received international protection. Of course, I know there are a lot of people in these countries who have been protected internationally. It is where people come and often is the first stop of people who want and apply for international protection. This is especially shown because of the position that had been mentioned to be very clear by having a significantly different national legislation than in all other European countries, i.e. We are the only land that is inclined to treat people with physical treatments and are actually two exceptions that can be seen as different from those of any other country. But by the way suggested in the bill, we are going a route, e.g. In Finland, where these people can apply for reimbursement on the basis of humanitarian reasons, they are protected by the fact that once people who have been protected are protected on land, they are protected because they are evaluated on the basis of the country they need to protect from, the state of their origin. People will be protected here, because there are the same standards as in most other countries around us. So instead of coming here and getting some other physical treatment and another time, people are more likely to apply for a living permit on the basis of the humanitarian reasons that take less time than the system we have today, which is a slightly double application.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u71	A respectable president. I understood the answer to the highest. A minister so that this would be because so many applicants end there and because there are other legislation here. That's the wrong answer. As has been pointed out now for a very long and many of the institutions such as the Red Cross, who say nothing of this sort for fun, then the situation of people like that can be a good idea. In Greece, however, there has been an increase in the number of times spent in the search for protection. This is because in the case of Greece, Greece, Italy, and Hungary either are unable or unable to do, they are unable to provide what we would call adequate protection. That's why. They've been pointing to this many and very long, and I'm amazed at it. The minister of justice is not aware of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u72	A respectable president. I'm aware of the position in the world. There are a lot of people on the run, and there's a lot of trouble. That is why we need to do well and have our protective system in place, with the funds we give in order to receive people in need of protection. But there must also be a comparable trend, so there is no particular tugpower here, which makes us hate the number of people that come along and answer all too late for the first time that apply for international protection here. It is clear that an application for international protection is comparable to the definition of who needs it in Europe, but Europe needs to discuss, of course, how it is going to meet a position throughout the continent.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u73	A respectable president. I wanted to take a shortcut and simply ask the highest. The minister of justice in what is the most important change in this bill now lies in her opinion of refugees. What's new about this bill? Two questions next would be whether it's the highest. The Minister of Justice believes that by this contributed bill, the rest of the various parties are in line with another bill, which seems to me at first glance to be similar to this. Is it better to meet the envelopes of a professional like the Red Cross? At the top. Ministers expect the envelopes of members like this to become more positive for this bill than for the first one?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u74	A respectable president. The differences between this and the other are some of the changes I made in my historical history. Regarding the comments that came on the previous bill, I think we can meet them by taking the Finnish route, which means that those who have international protection in another state can apply for a permit and have it on the basis of their humanitarian reasons. Then there is an increase in the charge and more changes in the bill, rights to residence, etc., which makes it different from the bill as a matter of course. A senator mentions. Of course, we are making these changes in situations where people have applied for international protection because we stand out completely from other countries. In other European countries, there are very few people who are applying for protection that has already been protected and therefore have better control of that group, and the growing group here, who are coming right into the escape of persecution, which leads to a general protection, but the time in which there is a very great increase.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u75	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of Justice is very much concerned with the answers and especially about what has been changed by her in this bill. Following her comments, I would like to ask her: " Is that my goal? Minister to soften this process, to make it easier for the people in need and the need for assistance to come here to the country, with reference to the changes it presents here?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u76	A respectable president. We are strengthening the treatment of all of these matters. In terms of their issues, and those requiring and maintaining international protection have increased, that period of treatment could be beneficial to the general population leading to a positive outcome according to the general definition of the same in many parts of Europe. With regard to the international protection population, we are making our legislation comparable to those of the countries around us and everywhere in Europe, where they do not have a special view of their affairs, but we put them in the process of applying for a permit on the basis of humanitarian reasons if there are such reasons, instead of giving the people back materially to a case that would in general lead to international protection because they are viewed as a source.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u77	Mr. President. Ten years had passed since war began in Syria. There are 6.7 million Syrians inside of Syria. As a fugitive outside of Syria, there are 6.6 million Syrians. So there are over 13 million Syrians who need to be under the protection of the world's refugee systems. I mention this because the war of Syria is a turning point in the affairs of Europe's trustrs. That blast point has, for example, one. leads to the suffering of people in many European countries, either unable to control or unwilling to accept these people properly and to provide them with the international protection they deserve. Here in Iceland, this has caused what a minister has turned aside; delays in the system. It is harder to take a materialistic view of more matters than fewer matters. It may be appropriate to mention in a practical way that the simplest step in reducing delays would simply be to accept more applications. You see, the tables in the system are because the system puts a lot of work into finding reasons to deny people international protection. The foreigners are new, approved 2016, and went into effect in 2017. They care about matters that old law didn't do, including Because the people who established that law in 2002 did not foresee the development that took place ten years ago. What happened after the war of Syria was that people not only were fleeing from natural disasters, wars, famines, and violence but people also began fleeing the system where they were to be protected. Here, Hungary, Greece, and Italy have been called. In all those countries, refugees who have accepted their positions, who are to be protected internationally by nonviolence. Children cannot be educated or properly cared for by their health care providers. On the basis of these circumstances, people began to flee more frequently, even knocking on the door. Up here on the beach. The laws were by no means equipped to deal with these cases, but they were then made a bit of a piece of shit. It was then found that if the system wanted to take a shelter over this group, it would be a means of granting the people a leave of the people for humanitarian reasons. But this stinking mix didn't really keep any water. This came to pass with the Senate Committee, which composed new alien laws. Ólöf Nordal, highest. the local minister of justice, became fully aware of this, and therefore this group was specifically prepared in 36rd par. foreigner, a group of candidates who come here after receiving active international protection in another country. But now we face another challenge: The government of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir is going to destroy this particular provision that is so important in the world as it has become today. The government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter is going to anoint the resurgence machine of the Foreign Institute for the group fleeing the ruined protection systems in southern Europe. I did it for a game, Mr. President, to compare the text of this bill with the last version of the bill that lay here before the council a year ago. I found very interesting an editor's decision that had been taken on a report regarding what is now Article 12. The bill, and it's about embezzling the re-important machine to people with protection in another country. There, however, the change was intended to give strength to the Dypsician arrangement and to put it to good use when possible. Materially, the law has not changed. It's just taken out of the report, I'd say atoning for the cooperation of Justice Ministers. Of course, this does not have to be mentioned in a report. There is no need to impress on what is thus being done as soon as the Dublin Protocol is applied as hard as possible. This is true and will be true if a minister of justice gets his way. But I suppose this is a matter of salvation for people who do not want to recognize what their support for this bill really means. People in particular stopped at the El Team 12. About a year ago, and I'll stick around with him again today. It is the joint that takes this particular group, which is protected in a damaged national protection system beyond parentheses and who refuses the system to accept it for material treatment, though it has special contact with the country or other special reasons for doing so. So I grab down on the Red Cross review of this point especially from May last, with the permission of the President: The cross lies firmly against the motion. The Red Cross emphasizes that this is a very extensive change involving an enormous decrease in the rightfulness of refugees. I can hardly count on how many times the government, the Minister, or the Ministers, or any member of the council, have and intend to ignore this warning of the Red Cross, which is a spokesman for refugees in this country. In this context, it is difficult to point to the hypocrisy involved in saying in September last that the government would kindly welcome 15 people from a well - burned refugee camp at Lesbos but then offer a bill about sending people into the other end of the long - smiled Greek reservation. Then comes another change from the previous version at Article 12. The bill. It is closer to being materially than it is not. Likely, we are here again looking at a text installed for political reasons and not material changes in behalf of refugees. In addition, the management authority should take note of his own initiatives to consider whether to grant entitlement on the grounds of humanity, these people who are not to be treated according to the bill. It can be done today by governments of itself. 74. g. The alien resident allows it to do so. But apart from the fact that the humanitarian licenses are out-of-date systems that we disappeared from 2016, they're also scary shit. When people fall under them is very open and appreciated. They don't have a work permit, so it's hard to get a job when people have international protection approved, so they only apply for one year so that people can't do anything other than live between hope and fear for whether they'll get an extension or be reassigned, until finally they get citizenship, if ever. Let's go back to 2016, the year that was agreed on by the law, because we have an example discussed in this hall, that I remember, at a pantheon and education committee and became a Syrian family, a married couple, and two daughters who got into the media. It's somehow then and only when the system responds with humanity these days. This family got into the media and caught enough attention for members of Congress to speak for it, so that the public would understand the situation. They were people who had protection in Greece, but that protection was ruined, so they fled here. Because the case had become available in the media, the NTSB saw her face and responded with the shitty mix I mentioned earlier, with a human conditional permit. That was because of this case and painting, like the 36th par. was written as she is. Here the Minister of Justice then suggests that the council reverses that work, erases a clear progressive step based on good work in transpirian reconciliation, and restores this ghost from previous law. In fact, it may be asked, " Am I meeting other laws of the law or international commitments to refugees?'Because in order to grant this disgusting humane rights, it is fundamental to conclude that people are not refugees. Is it not then that another State's first decision regarding the individual's status as a fugitive has begun, something we shouldn't? A respectable president. This is a repeat subject, so I may be repeating myself a little, but this bill shows, just as last time it appeared, just as the last one, and the last one, does not agree with refugees. This does not show solidarity with countries that cannot provide refugees with the humanitarian treatment they deserve. This bill, on the other hand, shows cold - headed policy in the affairs of the trustees, which is further revealed in the fact that only word changes are made to match the political interests of fellow workers in the government. However, the physical changes that experts have called for every time this disgusting bill appears. It's shameful.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u78	Mr. President. We will discuss a bill to legalize a change in the laws on foreigners and the legal rights of foreigners. This bill, like the highest, is quite a factor in growth. To this day, the minister of justice took the lead in his discussion earlier, which is presented again in a somewhat different picture. I would like to say at the beginning of my speech that both me and the other. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir made a note of this bill. We feel that the overall impact of the changes proposed in the bill needs to be examined and that the perspective on the efficiency and effectiveness of the system cannot be seen on the costs of humanitarian and justice in general nor on the status of people of sensitive groups. This is important to me, at the beginning of my speech, because the bill has changed. Perhaps the biggest change ever made in Article 12. The bill, where they put in a d- team that deals with granting relics on the grounds of humanity, even though they may have a home in another country. That's what I think was extremely important to you. A global and educational committee should make a careful examination of this procedure. There are other factors that need to be considered on a committee. We know that once we have discussed other issues related to changing the laws of foreigners, there are very many things that arise and a great deal to be considered by sources. One thing I would like to mention, which I think is in the foundation of a very positive change, is a proposal for the growth of the NTSB. That's what I think is very good for yourself, and it's necessary to make a contribution. On the other hand, I believe it is important that the committee take a very good look at the setting, how it is done, and how it is presented. I'm not gonna have that opinion right here at 1st. I don't know if it needs to be done in any other way, but I just think it's important that this is one of the things the committee really looks at, i.e. ... howandwhoexposedtothed Board of Overseers. They're making a positive change in this bill when it comes to jobs. Yet, I feel that they are somewhat limited to those with special education. Of course, it is good and really important that people with expertise can come to work here. But I think we need to take a closer look at things here, whether we're gonna do it by changing this bill or if it needs a longer conversation, I don't know exactly. But I've previously described my view that we need to consider that people outside the European Economic Area can come here to live and work. And then I think it's very positive, and to everyone's convenience that's suggested here, i.e. that people who have been authorized on the basis of humanitarian or special contact with the country will be excluded from the requirement for temporary employment permit. I think we need to consider this in connection with the changes mentioned earlier in Article 12. the bill, of course, because it is people who would, if it becomes the law, may be granted permission on the grounds of humanity. This is a point that the committee needs to look at very carefully because I think there's a clear spot in the system that needs to be viewed, we want, I think, all the people who have come up here and have permission to stay in this country can also operate here, without having to go through a complicated system to do it. Mr. President. As I said at the beginning of my speech, I believe that there must be a very thorough review of the bill and a careful consideration of how the changes presented here will come out and how the changes presented and are new, in addition to the ideas that we have seen earlier, will play together. It is important that the General and Education Committee take a very serious turn, review the case with a critical eye, and that we never lose sight of the part of the foreigners that turns to refugees and refugees that there is a humane and justification to be what we have planned for.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u79	A respectable president. As has been noted several times, the situation is e.g. In Greece, people's circumstances may worsen when they leave the refugee camps and receive the so - called protection. In refugee camps, however, it has minimal health care but goes to a condition where it does not have minimal health care, when it comes out and is protected. This has been pointed out repeatedly, but again this matter is submitted. In case of a moment. A senator listened to a talk at the highest. The minister of justice in the past is very clear that this fact is not recognized by the authorities. The authority to grant permission on the basis of humanitarian reasons is not enough, and it is very obvious when you listen to a talk at the top. The Minister of Justice or the bill's report. Now I heard why. A senator spoke earlier of her having with another man. A senator made an advance notice of certain things in this bill. When I heard those words, I thought of a saying that is sometimes used in English, and I'm just going to paraphrase it in the light of a new era: The evil triumphs when good people do nothing. It's not enough, a respectable president, in my opinion, that after we've caused them to be prevented, we're warning about some of the articles. Here this bill is submitted, probably after receiving the approval of a council of the left movement for a green supply. It is then in the hands of the senators, who would never have offered such a case themselves, to stop it and make it so that we here at the Council are not offered such an invitation when we are talking about people in a more delicate position. I didn't come up here in myself to ask why. A senator but to encourage others. A member of the council to use his denial authority when appropriate in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u80	Mr. President. You're right. A senator noted that the situation in various lands is terrible when it comes to the situation of refugees and refugees. Greece, Italy, and Hungary are very often mentioned there. That's exactly why I think it's so important, and I was trying to get here in my case, that they can get clearance in other countries despite having a position in these countries. This is one of the things I think the committee needs to do very well how it plays together. I think it is of utmost importance that the law makes it clear that living conditions can be granted on the basis of humanity. That's what members of the Parliament are for, to consider. I've described it here that when it comes to the affairs of refugees, it's just that it needs to be what we have in mind. That's what I'm taking into the Committee job, and I'm going to evaluate the bill as well as the comments on the subject and see if the changes in the bill have to be made as requested and take sides on the continued treatment of Congress. I believe, however, that there are good things on the bill and that were important. But that may not be all, and that is what the committee needs to consider.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u81	A respectable president. There's just something in this bill that's good. That is why the power of the left movement would have been one thing about saying no to this particular bill, but saying yes to the good in it and offering them a good bill, not bad as it is today. This power is in the hands of the left movement ◯ green supply. I appreciate committee work, as others do. Councilmen because it's where things are sometimes changed. But that's what it's all about. A senator, after listening to a talk of the highest order. Minister of Justice, after seeing the bill presented several times and after listening to tips e.g. The Red Cross, snoozey. A senator knows well, and I conclude from his speech and words. A senator, that there's a chance that this case will be better when it comes from a General and Education Committee, under the direction of this case. Independence party? That it won't be what it is now? It has taken a controversy, there's been comments, it's been suggested before, and there were comments, and they were ignored, respected president. I'm impressed. A senator has full faith in this fact. I realize that the committees can change things. But there is a history of this matter. It's been suggested before. There's been reviews, there's been a problem, there's been reviews, there's been reviews, there's been again, and we complained here in speeches, and we're gonna come back to this again and again. There's news, there's an consideration of these obvious points that will always remain. But this time, if we throw the case on a committee, it could be okay, and that is why the left movement pays off a vote by presenting it. A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the council this time: Suppose the issue remains unchanged, that it finds the wrong conclusion that the bill is completely concerned with the comments made to make the Red Cross. Gonna go for it. A senator, then, vote with the case?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u82	Mr. President. The case has previously been dismissed from the highest level. Minister of Justice. It hasn't been approved, but it's changed, including ritonavir, with respect to reports received. It makes it possible that I'm not going to give myself anything in advance about what kind of changes could be done on the bill because I still don't know what reviews are coming. But I think it's the best. In the past, a minister of justice has shown that it is a total, taking into consideration the hearsay being received. I'm going to go into the commission work that lies ahead of me with the goal of doing good. And it's just gonna be as the work goes on to show how I value the bill and the possible changes it may make in the activities of the Committee. That is how jobs work.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u83	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Now it's waiting for us, me and what. A senator and a what. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, who was acting in advance. A senator, to work on this matter, and to examine it at the moment. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. There we will try to ask ourselves and to our guests specific questions, and on the basis of them we will likely take a stand on the matter. I look forward to that work, and I look forward to it. Then, I think, we need to take a stand on one basic question, and it is this: Is it likely that it will continue, as we know an example, that the people who are looking here, the needy, will be sent out to God and restored to the so - called secure states, the three countries that have been repeatedly referred to here; Greece, Hungary, and Italy? Is it likely that after this bill becomes a law, these people will be sent to the so - called secure states, or will these laws change something there? And I remind you that we have the current legal authority to make decisions for humanitarian reasons.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u84	Mr. President. Sadly, the situation in the world is that more than 60 million people are fleeing; there have never been so many refugees in the world. Of course, it is the point that shows us the seriousness of our situation and how many are in a difficult situation. I can't tell you how things are going to develop, and I'm afraid I'm not sure, either with the unchanged laws on the affairs of foreigners or with the laws on the affairs of foreigners in Iceland, that we change the fact that there are too many people in need. However, this bill has been enacted that children who have been courted for material treatment will be provided with an asylum after a certain period of time. We've seen such a situation in Iceland that children and families in that position have been taken for safekeeping. It's, for example. The point that I believe is an improvement in this bill, as well as the fact that it is being put in here that people can get a humanitarian asylum, even though they have a position in another country. These are things that I think are extremely important in this discussion. But I'm afraid we're not going to make the world a good thing, either by accepting these laws or by not accepting them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u85	A respectable president. I think it is our job, in fact, to make the world a good thing and to do the little things that we can do so, although there is very little that we can do. Perhaps it is right to express my feelings and ask why. Senator again: Is there likely to be a principle that will continue to exist on such an assembly, this escape force, and be reimbursed to countries that are falsely considered a secure state, the state of three countries we have mentioned here? All of us agree that this presents an unbearable situation for refugees, who, like a boy, who are refugees. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson was doing well earlier, even living in worse circumstances after receiving this protection. So, are we on the Committee to join together to try to change this, try to influence it, because we're here dealing with people?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u86	Mr. President. Of course, it is our job and aim here to make the world better, and I think we are. A senator agrees on that basic view. I believe that in addition to the legislation we have on the affairs of foreigners, we contribute to the development of evolutionary cooperation that we are participating in in just to reduce the need to escape circumstances in their lands, and as in promoting a more peaceful world in which people do not have to flee because of war persecution. Then, of course, there is something more important about the future, i.e. to prevent the climate crisis, for if things cannot be turned around, it will, unfortunately, push still more people to flee. In terms of what we can do in terms of those who come to Iceland through the laws for foreigners, the committees need to be very careful about the suggestions presented in this bill, how the laws speak together, and how they feel about it. I'm stressing that we have a system that is taking the lead in human beings, that efficiency should not be the starting point. Of course, it is important that people receive good treatment, but it should not be at the expense of the content. That's what we need to put together and put together in the Committee work.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u87	A respectable president. When you are in a position to influence people's lives, in a position to make decisions that change their life, you can simplify your position by speaking of either taking a position in a yes or a spark. If you take a position when making such decisions, you ask yourself, " Why should I say no? ' You're in the truth and you're trying to find some reason to say no. If you take your place in the spark, you have decided to say no, and then you ask yourself, " Why should I say yes? Then you look at the reasons and even weigh them, feeling that they are minor. I feel that there's a principle that I can bear in mind about these matters because I feel that in these matters, the system takes its place in the no and keeps it pretty tight. I'm sitting, as I said before, for what? A top-of-the-art Board of Education and there comes a little less involved in reviewing and working on this case. At that job, I intend to take a special note of the comments of a person I believe to have expertise in this category, and I look especially at the Red Cross. This case is about 1st. Something sudden. I haven't had time to prepare really well for it. Nevertheless, it seems to me at a quick lecture that this may not be the major changes in the case that I might be considering. On the contrary, we are looking at the most efficient assembly that seems to be available. When I took part in discussions about this subject last time, I did it for fun to count the number of times the word "efficient" would occur in that draft, and it was 17 times. I did it again this morning and again came up the same number, 17 times efficiency. Effectiveness, though, can be beneficial, even essential, in order to complete difficult and successful decisions. However, the efficiency must not be sharp. It must never become an impersonal root word with a lack of humanity and a lack of it. Ideas work best when they agree with the desire to say yes and to be in the yes and when compared with humanity. Similarly, efficiency can never be a goal in itself. When you are asked to be effective, you cannot help them. Yes, efficiency can never be a reason to say no. This word, efficiency, occurs so often in the bill's report, and the writers seem so infatuated with this word that it even occurs to a man, as I think I have mentioned in my last discussion on this subject, that they understand the word literally. This is an activity to pass, the thought is to return people to their place, their place of origin. Unfortunately, that place does not exist, nor does it exist anymore, but these people have come to their place. It is in a sanctuary, or it should be, a place where it has the potential to build up life. In this regard, let us always remember that this is not a case of people who make it fun or people do it for fun or for people who do their work about the world, to have it comfortable in this position, as some of those who sometimes represent these matters, but to real people of flesh and blood, the real destiny of real people. And not only that, but it is also the possibility of making something of their own lives, of making something of their own abilities, to benefit communities whom they seek to become part of. Of course, there may be a number of people who are fleeing. We're all people of all kinds, no one is all good, and nobody is all bad. We are a collection of human qualities, and refugees do not possess one quality; 60 million do not possess one quality; rather, it is mankind. It's humanity itself, it's on the run, and that flight is just about to begin. In recent years, climate developments have been in a way that will result in an increasing number of areas in the world becoming uninhabitable, causing families to peel up where they live, and people to be released from their places and to flee because they no longer live. As a result, the wars, wars, and other national rights, wars of land, wars of space, and wars of people who practice war as their aims support by military machines that come from great powers, and the bites of ordinary refugees. We have had the smell of butter in Syria, where war was declared on families and women and children, old people and family members. Professional soldiers attacked these people with the latest military technology and science, causing them to blow up and go to Europe, where they were taken up by a variety of greatness, though most in Germany, where Angela Merkel's response will be kept to her name for a long time. A respectable president. We're here talking about humanity and efficiency and whether to be the rule of humanity or whether it should be the exception of the policy of communication, whether the cold line should apply, but at times there may be a chance of human feelings. We are aware of an example of this in the case of a human spirit. That's when people come up with stories in the media. It is when some well - known member of this family succeeds in attracting the media and thus the public in the circumstances of people, and it almost without exception causes the public to feel sorry for them. The public is moved to feel compassion because the common people see themselves in these people simply because these people are not refugees; they are ordinary people. These people are common. It is then that rulers, ministers, are forced, usually in the 11th hour, to give this people refuge for humanitarian reasons, which is just as praiseworthy and pleasant, yet, indeed, because it is an exception. Humanity as an exception. I believe, Mr. President, that Iceland is a country with an enormous opportunity, and I believe that in order for that opportunity to be realized... there are a lot of hard work here... and people with all kinds of skills and education and all kinds of background. I don't think it's enough for us to hide employment services or such sources solely to provide them with workers. I think it's natural and natural that such workforce comes out of society and even comes. From outside, from people who sincerely want to live here and build their lives and lives. I think such people are more likely to be good and to be civilians than an inexhaustible labor force that works here for several months and then leaves. Above all, I think that kindness and righteousness should never be the exception, the humanity, and justice should not even be reserved for those who are good people. It should also be available for people who may be defective. Humanity is not to be a reward for good conduct, and it should never be left behind. I believe, Mr. President, the humanity should be the basic rule of society and that we as a community should take our place forever in the course of yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u88	A respectable president. I have some comments and questions to ask. A senator who says we're sending people to the gods and seams. Of course, all issues are being examined on land to see if reimbursement will lead to violations against 42rd. The law, which is the principle, that we should not send people where their lives and their freedoms may be in danger. And now in this bill it is adding an opinion of a human right to these matters where a foreigner must be granted protection in another state on the basis of humanitarian grounds, he can demonstrate a real need for protection, e.g. for health reasons or because of difficult social circumstances or difficult general circumstances in the country to which they would be referred. It's good to be clear when we have to. A senator describes his experience, as it were, of the system. And then I'd like to ask who. A senator, because he insists that humanity is an exception - humanity and efficiency are two that are well shared - whether it is the exception that 631 have been granted protection in Iceland 2020 and 531 given protection 2019 and will, fewer people will be denied such protection: Can you say that it is an exception when so much of those who seek here receive international protection and rich support from Icelandic society? I wouldn't count it an exception.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u89	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the counter-sponsored. I'd like to start by saying that I think we agree that it is fundamental that humanity and efficiency have -- Well, tops. Minister says we're good together. I may want to go a little further and say that humanity and efficiency are impossible whether without the other, they must go together forever. I talked about assembly, and I talked about humanitarian reasons as an exception because we know that the three countries that have often been involved in these discussions, Hungary, Italy, and Greece do not have to offer acceptable conditions to refugees, but they have been still defined as a secure state of the Icelandic government and people have been sent there. Of course, while people are being sent out in these circumstances, I don't feel that humanity is the norm.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u90	A respectable president. So what? A senator believes that it is an exception for the system to be humanised when the global protection rate is 77%? I want a simple answer to that question. We can't help it if we quickly respond to people in our system today. People are waiting for months for release and international protection, and especially the group in real need of international protection, is not running away from persecution. We need to reduce our system, which is different from the systems in the countries around us, in some possible way. It would be nice to hear from what. A senator will know what his solution is. How will he do well in this system of things with what is available? It would also be interesting to hear from what happened. A senator as to which he does not consider them to be the exception of humanity if all of the European countries and the supply ratios are seen and that the people who come here are far more than in the countries around us. But the first question was simple: Count back. A senator that the 77% supply rate of international protection is an exception to the humanity of our system?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u91	A respectable president. I don't have that kind of numbers on a quick room, and I'm not prepared to deal with the highest. Minister on those numbers. I don't know them, but I'm sure I'll learn them. I know, however, that financial contributions to the National Institute of Iceland have been inadequate, and I know that I know that the Foreign Institute has complained that the ability to misbehave its laws because there has been an obstacle to the lack of money. I know that, too, so I'm still hammering on what I mentioned in my speech, that while people are being sent to these unannounced circumstances on the basis of an outmoded definition of what is a secure state and what is not, there is no way to speak of humanity.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u92	Mr. President. This has been an interesting discussion of an important group of subjects. I have chosen to approach this group in two ways, i.e. Of course, we should look to those who are truly in need and who need help and come to us. At the same time, I think it is most desirable that we try to make wise use of the limited resources available in this category, and we try to get the most for the money, as they say, when we are helping people in need so that we can help as many people as possible. Last year, the Justice Minister gave a bill at the General Assembly of April about a change in the law of foreigners. The bill was designed to enable governments to quickly and safely deliver applications that do not lead to global protection. The bill did not succeed because of a disagreement in the government, and I think this bill is going the same way. That's my opinion. I hope there's another day, but I don't think there's any agreement within the government on this matter. It is urgent to simplify and speed the application procedure so it can improve the effectiveness and shorten the duration of the procedure and reduce unnecessary expenses for the state funds. And since I'm on a budget board, of course, I'm obliged to monitor the implementation of budgets, i.e. that the funds provided for each seminar are well spent and used in the best possible way. I think this bill is a step in the right direction, but don't go far enough in this regard. Today, Iceland provides the best service for the rest of Europe and North countries to provide. This has been confirmed twice in the Ministry of Justice at a meeting with a financial committee. This is a natural message throughout the world that will result in a growing number of international protection applications in this country. Already, most of them are already in this country of the North and are the largest in number, as mentioned earlier in the speech of the Minister of Justice. Each 10,000 people have 18 applications in this country, but three in Norway and Denmark, so it is obvious that there is a huge difference between this and a part of the natural way this is given a good service. The question is, Are we prepared to accept a large number of applications? It happened, for example. in Norway not so many years ago that some 6,000 refugees came to Norway's Russian border in a few weeks. The government in Norway was not prepared for this, but it caused problems and quite severe exchanges in the Norwegian Parliament, causing the law to be changed, and so on. Regarding this bill, it is natural to note that the bill on impact, on page 24. 19 says that if the bill remains unchanged that the law is not expected, it will result in changes in expenses for the amount of government. In addition, the bill says that efficiency and implementation should be enhanced. In other words, the bill is supposed to increase efficiency, but it should not include any savings. That's a very special approach to me, Mr. President. Well, it's a group of paintings that are constantly out of the budget. Just before Christmas, the Allied Council agreed to agree on extra funds for the rest of the city's shelterers up to 400 million. K. and at a meeting on a budget recently, it was reported that there were already 150 million missing. K. An additional 4 billion dollars will be the case in spite of the legal group of foreigners. ... inthelawsofthisyear. I only came to see that a financial committee plays a vital role when it comes to the government's budget, and especially now when there has been such an enormous debt increase in the state's budget that we have to look at every cent. The role of the legal committee is also the case. to monitor the implementation of budgets, to monitor how the funds given each year are handled, and this is made clear in the laws on public finances. The Department of Justice sent some questions about expenses on international protection, and I want to thank the chairman of the branch office for the initiative to send these questions to the Ministry because they are very important. It was for example. Asking such questions as which way the Ministry would be able to achieve a reduction in the cost of the case. It is a financial committee that follows the effort made to make the most of the money. I must say, Mr. President, the answers were rather few. Let me give you one answer from the Ministry of Justice. It reads: When it comes to the assessment of the cost of international protection, there are a number of covariates that can affect the outcome. Mr. President. It's not really an answer. There are questions about how to reduce the cost, and the answer is: There are many variables that can affect the outcome. Why can't we find out what the cost is to each shelterer when Danir knows that the cost to any hospice in Denmark who has been rejected, i.e. Denial, 6 million. K. every year? I have to say that in view of this, the financier's laws on government finance are clear: a minister of his own management is required to take action if it is found that financial management is not effective and that the director is to state what measures he is going to take. If the budget fails, he should install a minister and contact a secretary of finance and inform him of the situation. It's at 34. the law on government finance is very clear. The law closes open checks. It has to be said, as it is, that an answer such as this from the Ministry, which says that a number of variables from the most distinct directions could influence the conclusion of this costs, is just an open source that the Ministry is suggesting, at the same time, when the government law on public finances says that it cannot be this way. The law says only stops when sheep are gone. It's simple. And surely we should help those in need. But we can't help everyone. It's just that way. That has even been true. Prime Minister, to be said here. I also have to say, Mr. President, because I'm talking about a financial committee and I'm sitting on a budget committee, I feel that I'm not interested in following it after there's a limp in the answers to inquiries. When the answers to those questions from the Committee were addressed at a committee meeting, virtually no member of the committee was interested in asking any of the facts. It has to be said, as it is, that the person standing here was the only one who asked about those answers. How important it is that humans keep in mind that we do not have unlimited funds for this group of subjects! It's just that way. That's why I've always felt that we should make the most of our money. Well, now, for example. A United Nations organization responsible for refugee aid in the Middle East, for Palestinians, publicly published the cost of helping refugees in that area. The cost is so that we could help a person in the Middle East for the cost of helping one person in Iceland. I want to approach this party in this way, that we put extra money on helping those who live near home and need help there. People are being given a fine service in these areas. It is a facility, a health service, a social service, an education, so good service is being done. Of course, it costs money, and that's where we can make very good use of the money. Of course, we should continue to welcome and do so, as we have done here in Iceland. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson referred to a quote from Burke Burke that the future of evil was fed by good people who did nothing. I take my heart to this remarkable quote. This is exactly the root of the problem: What has the international community done to prevent war and persecution, which, of course, are at the root of the movement for protection and for other countries? Has the international community done anything in that there are more than a million Muslims sitting in a prison in China because of the national crime of uyghur - I think I pronounce it right? I don't know that the international community has done a lot of work in it. And other examples might be found: The great distress there because of war is largely the responsibility of Saudi Arabia, a wealthy kingdom. Is it possible to come to the aid of Muslims persecuted in China? No, indeed. So there is a real need for us to keep up the importance of the responsibility of those who are responsible for conflicts, wars that result in persecution. There is indeed a need for that. The United States is responsible for the refugees who come from Afghanistan for the wars they have endured over the years. I think it is right for the Icelandic government to communicate who is really responsible for the fact that there are tens of millions of refugees in the world. We can't help everyone, unfortunately, but we can make our system more efficient and make it more useful. I will continue to speak for it. This system, like all other systems, is abused. There are individuals who do not need this system and who accept the services offered until they receive a decision that can take months. It costs money. This money could be used to help truly needy people near their home, such as. In the Middle East, and I was shaving here. So it has to be tailored to this failure of the system. This bill is part of it, even though there are other things that my judgment needs to do. Here we go, for example. individuals often, over and over again. They've been denied, but they're coming back. There are examples of this, as I mentioned in the contrast, that a person came here four times and was always given the same service for months. This is not something you should be able to play on this system. We do not want the social security system to be abused, of course not. The same is true of this system. Why is this never to be discussed with this group? Then they put some holes in them, and so on. Now, there's a bad river out there that needs to be slided off. This system needs to be more efficient, so we can make the most of it. That's my message in that discussion. And since I'm on a budget board, I don't think it's natural that this seminar class can keep on getting extra funds for life when there's a limited amount of money playing. I'll let that be my final statement in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u93	A respectable president. Hv. A senator recently mentioned that here we receive more applications according to an appeal number than the one mentioned earlier. correspondent in Denmark and Norway, and something a little more than in Sweden, not much more. First of all, I want to remind you that me and the Icelanders are very inclined to claim to be the best at something, or most, compared to an appeal number, and I have to joke about it with my friends that we have the largest numbers in terms of an appeal number. I don't think there should be any surprise to people that the same value here. But regardless of that fact, even if we forget, I'd like to say why. A senator why I believe my approach to the refugee problem in the wake of the war of Syria is better than a approach. Councilman: Europe estimates about 500 million people, depending on exactly which countries are referring to, etc., but we are not close to that many. When the refugee ice began, the pressures became understandable on the outer borders of the European Union, Italy, Greece, and the surrounding nation. In particular, the European Union's response, but in general, was always trying to push the problem somewhere else. When Denmark and Norway and other countries begin to tighten their rules, they say themselves that people who really need to get somewhere to live in peace must go elsewhere. It will not return to its own house, for it is fleeing from there. In other words: That every kingdom is constantly trying to push the problem into place, it will not solve it. What we should ask ourselves, and I'm afraid I didn't have the opportunity to ask the highest. Minister of Justice earlier, why don't we fight that the European Union agrees to welcome these people? Because a community of 500 million people could, in my opinion, be very relieved without having to discuss it. Instead, every nation is trying to push everyone out, making sure that most people do not get in. It doesn't solve any problems. And here we are, ten years later or so, facing the same problem, and you can't see it getting better. I'd like to hear a response. A senator on these speculations.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u94	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's answer and agree wholeheartedly with him that, of course, Europe is to come together in these matters and correct its ways, such as in Greece and the situation there. At the power of their size, the European Union has much more power and resources to do this well. But for some reason, it has not been successful. This may show the European Union's solidarity. But there are many other countries that can come to grips. I specifically mention the states of the Mediterranean, such as Bahin, United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, etc., prosperous state. Where are they when fellow believers are persecuted, e.g. In Syria? Do they receive refugees? No, they certainly do not. There are many places in which governments can take positive action in matters that truly have the power to do so. Sadly, though, we can see how they have handled their war effort in neighboring nations, which have brought untold woes, such as in the Yemen, and continue to do so in the strength of their wealth, with no sympathy for their Muslim fellow believers. I used China as an example. I don't know that there was anything heard from Saudi Arabia about the persecution the Muslims in China have had to endure, which are huge and the international community have completely overlooked. The United States, however, may have recently called attention to this ugly matter. Other than that, I agree with it. A senator in regard to the need for Europe to work hard and to be able to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u95	A respectable president. It always raises some questions from me when referred to as a nation like Saudi Arabia when we are discussing it. The question is, why doesn't Saudi Arabia make it somehow different? Saudi Arabia is a terrible nation ruled by religious fanaticism and great oppression, and there's nothing in which we should be exemplary in government practices in my opinion, and I'm thinking about what. A senator will agree with me on that. That is why, especially by Christian values or by those I believe who are not Christians but who are united, we should do better than that person. We're supposed to be better than other people. We are to love our enemies, and especially our neighbor. But there is another discussion. I wonder what's wrong. A senator believes that we should reach the goal of Europe, if we do not use the wording that it should take over, that it is the solution to the refugee problem in Europe that each nation will take on more people, inmates, or other sources, from the United Nations or whatever. The speech with what? A senator and his party and others, and certainly from the government, is that we should do what the other countries are trying to do, that we should do as the states that are hard on the rules, but we should not do as the kingdoms that are expanding the rules that are, in fact, not at this moment, knowing me. How are we to achieve this goal, a respectable president, if we say that Europe should receive more people and distribute them to the elves at the same time we have the same language as the other people, that we should narrow the rules in each country? There, I sense a contradiction. I know the way out of her, but that's because I disagree. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u96	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I don't think there's any contradiction in this. We'll just have to figure out the nation's population, Icelanders. When we look at some 500 million people in Europe, such as hell. A senator mentioned, it is obvious that we cannot welcome everyone. Everybody sees it. At the same time, Europe has much more opportunity to receive more, everyone, is just right. A senator certainly has the authority to receive everyone. The European Union should certainly find it easy to plan so that they could do so decently, which does not seem to be the case. However, there may be disagreements in the European Union that have caused them to drift further into this regard. As far as we're concerned, my attitude is perfectly clear. We are to support those who truly are in need and to seek here. But we have limited funds, that's just how we use them, and we're supposed to make the most of them. I have strong opinions about how to use them. I've said it here. I want to see them newer in the area where refugees are, like the Middle East and the neighboring nations, because I believe we can help a lot more people with the money we use here. I'm not saying, however, that we're supposed to shut off the threat of refugees, and we're not supposed to be saying goodbye. I also believe that we should look at something in social and religious groups. I have mentioned from the platform that we should look, for example. to Christian refugees who are persecuted around the world and who are the most persecuted religious group in the world. They've been in smaller pieces when we've been meeting people who have come to England. For example, I would have wanted to see if we could not grow in that group. [[The president calls.]] So there are many things to think about, huh? Senator. [[The president calls.]] But I think we agree on the approach that, of course, the European Union is doing much better. I think we agree completely on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u97	A respectable president. It is tempting to continue the discussion of answers, but at least at the beginning, I will try to restrain myself. We'll see how things are going. We're here again on international protection, evasion and residence and employment permits. There's something about bad ideas coming back up. There is one who may have been more extensive than others in the discussion today, but it is the idea of rejecting takeoffs if the applicant is already in another state, such as Greece or another state. I understand that quickly, if people know little or nothing about the seminary, it may seem logical, i.e. The individual already has protection, so why would he be protected here as well? What is the individual's motive? I'd like to stick with that question for a second. An individual who flees as an example of the Syrian civil war, which in one word is terrible, receives protection in Greece, why should he fly all the way here to Iceland and apply for asylum here? This is because, more respected president, the situation in countries such as the United States, for example. Greece, Hungary, and Italy are simply unsurpassed even when people have been protected. These three relatively different national states are now in terms of history, culture, language, and politics, apart from what they share in common as members of the EU, which, though less and less and less, will appear to be. It tells itself that when these three countries are specific to the bill's report Hungary, Italy, and Greece, that is not a coincidence. There is a reason why these specific countries are referred to more frequently than others when people apply here for asylums that already have refuge in other countries. The reason is the situation in these countries. That must be obvious. V.E.G. The Minister of Justice answered my question earlier that it was just so much of the trustees in these states, i.e. that so many people had been given refuge, as well as that there was laws here so that they would be tempted for coming here. The situation in Hungary is e.g. So it is forbidden to help those seeking refuge. If a person who has had a home in Hungary is planning e.g. renting an apartment or some kind of home may not know the landlord the difference between a fugitive and a prostitute or a humanitarian person, or what the whole thing is called, and may not want to rent the person for fear of breaking the law forbidding him to assist the inmates. That is the situation in Hungary. It is forbidden in Hungary that a lawyer will step up and help a fugitive to win his case. Is it any wonder, then, that people with positions there, with asylums in Hungary, may look elsewhere, since they cannot even rent houses because the landlord thinks he may be breaking the law? In fact, it is not true if the individual has already received a refuge, if that is the case. But we know how the discussion is in this country, and it must be worse in Hungary. People do not know the difference between a fugitive and a fugitive or other concepts used in everyday speech, perhaps not people who specialize in renting homes. I think it's obvious because I know these things. I understand that they're not obvious for someone who doesn't know this, but that's right here, again. In Greece, there are people in a refugee camp. The circumstances there are often unacceptable. They vary, depending on the camp involved. However, there is minimal health service there, e.g. for children, whom I would have thought we cared. When people are protected in Greece, they lose this help. They no longer get to be in the camp, and they're supposed to be where, you respectable president? Out on the street. That's where it is. It's getting worse. It is the exception of the political situation that is characterized by alien spirit, such as in some other European countries, unfortunately, and especially in Hungary. Is it strange that such a person would rather come to Iceland to be left alone from what goes on in Greece or Hungary? There's nothing strange about it, nothing. This is not an opportunism. It's a survival attempt. The same self - survival efforts that first led the human race to Greece, Hungary, or Italy. These people are not necessarily going to these countries, even most of them, but because Europe is determined to screw this up from A to A, we have established a ridiculous system, which is that the ACs have a special career to send people to the first states to which clients come. Any who intend to apply for asylum in the Netherlands or Norway or France first land in Italy because of the prospect of getting stuck there. The Italian authorities do not want to have the trustee there. The coward does not want to be there. Who wants him there? Holland and France and Iceland. And the other countries that won't take over. A respectable president. It's a crazy system. I agree completely with what. The members of the Central Party said that they had been completely shipwrecked. I just disagree with them about why it is. The solution is not to narrow down more and build larger walls and spend more money and build bigger and more expensive and slow - working booths to hold this wall and these watchmen on the wall. That's not the answer, Mr. Honorable President, that's the problem. That's the problem that costs these indistinct amounts, which I also agree with. The members of the Central Party that we are too high and that we are using them to do wrong things. But the solution is not higher walls, and more watchmen on those walls. The solution is that we, by example, use ourselves up to the level of wisdom that we can wisely achieve, that Europe combines itself with these things, so that someone living in Greece can live elsewhere. I'd like to remind you of another thing called the EEA that we're on to. In fact, I'm not sure that far too many Europeans are in daily life very conscious of that, called the European Union. But part of it is that the Greeks may move to France and the French may move to Greece, and that is good. Was the world better when it wasn't like that? Was it better when there was border surveillance between Austria and Germany and Poland and Germany? Was it better, Mr. Honorable President? Would it be better if we had a customs inspection between Reykjavík and Selephos? Would it be more efficient, more dignified president? Would it be cheaper? Is that what we want to save our money with? No, we wouldn't be. That would be bad decisions. That would be a bad way. Freedom is good, not just because we're here singing and selecting hippies, but because it's good for communities. It's good for individuals, good for all of us here, for all of us to pretend, at least in word, to accept it in principle, at least. But when it comes to fugitives and refugees, the mind is transformed, and the goal must be to keep the walls between them, that people can't go between them, and that someone who has a refuge in one place must not have refuge in another because it was so expensive, it would be so inaccessible. A respectable president. It doesn't make a whole mind out of it. This isn't just Iceland's fault. It is Europe in its entirety to blame, for every nation is just thinking things out of its designated national domain, which, in my opinion, is a complete mistake. I'll have to, now that I've already hurt two of them. The members of the Central Party in the inner hall, and I thank them for being here with us, to mention that recently the United Nations decision on regular transport was adopted, on passengers. I can't exactly remember her name. It was highly objected and said on Radio History and elsewhere that we were losing control of our border, and all the foreigners would run in here, and God knows what, all kinds of nonsense not found in that fine document. I told a radio story in my day, that if opposers of that story were going to read it, they wouldn't mind it. While we disagree on exactly how liberal we want to be in these and other matters that I understand well, there are certain things we should be able to agree on, e.g. That we would want to use this money better and in other things. I think we agree on that. But we do not agree on how to do so or the best way to achieve it. But when it comes to carrying people on a regular basis, we must be on the same team. I'm sure we'd like to have it planned. But Europe and Iceland, as part of the EEA community service, Schengen, and all, do not realize that there is a fundamental error in the fact that this problem is to be shut down into a unique nation. It is the fundamental conflict that causes superpower on certain national states, such as Italy and Greece. It's also interesting to me that there have been some reports of more asylums than there are in Norway, Denmark, Sweden - they are slightly more than in Sweden, no more, actually quite comparable to an appeal number. No one teaches Norway and Denmark that we will receive more applications because Norway and Denmark are flexing their conditions, narrowing their laws. No, that's not what they're blamed for. They complain that we do not do the same. They complain that we do not force enough ourselves, that this is the problem. But that's not the problem. It will also be said that we cannot help everyone, cannot receive everyone. I'll advertise again for that. A senator who has said here that we should accept everyone. I don't remember hearing it, and I haven't said it myself. But Europe could, and probably could do it a little easier. These are a few million people, I don't remember exactly how many. Europe is about 500 million, plus/minus something. Europe could if she decided to do so. Instead, the European nations, like Iceland now think on these and other matters, always feel that the problem is only one particular nation. It's not like that. A respectable president. The refugee ice is essentially a global problem, a global one, and we must work together to overcome that problem. We do not always do this by trying to narrow the rules and push people to other countries. Rather, we should try to accept the one we can accept, who is more than we do today. We could use the money better than we could take on more than we do today, a lot more, I think, and be on my guide if we got away with it, within Europe, thinking that we're trying to solve the problem by something other than simply shoveling all the foreigners somewhere else. There's something else in this bill, a respectable president, but it's the one that put it in particular. I think there's something good in this bill. (b) How do we know that Jehovah's day is nearing its end? But somehow, since I sat down at council 2013, we have been legally establishing things to protect ourselves from some overwhelming burden on this system. New legislation is always being established to block and make this easier and more efficient for the system itself and somehow it always fails. Why? Because we're thinking this wrong, us and Europe all.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u98	A respectable president. Hv. A senator brought in a number of things that would require more than two minutes of reply. One was that we were always responding and somehow trying to narrow the system as the wind unfolds. Of course, this group of subjects is different. The situation changes, and the group develops, and we naturally need to examine our legislation accordingly. We are now responding to this position in order to be more able to accept those who come here and agree with the definition of requiring international protection, such as anywhere else in Europe, and having national legislation and other European countries in place of international protection, but still have the opportunity for these persons to obtain humane permission. Then lighted a reason. A member of particular circumstances in Hungary took a special interest in this subject. Then I'd like to ask. Senator: In the last three or four years, how many have we referred to Hungary?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u99	A respectable president. I don't have that number in front of me, but I do. A minister said that we were always responding and that the group of paintings changed. I feel a little like the highest. A minister of justice would not have listened to the core of my speech. I know we're reacting. I know we're changing the law. My criticism turns to how we change the law. V.E.G. Again, a minister of justice says that it is to accept more fully those who have good motives. A respectable president. That was exactly the same reason that was used here at the time, ever since 2013, or as long as I've been at the Council. The same reason is always used, increasing efficiency, saving money, and improving the system for those who need it. A respectable president. This bill does not improve the situation for people who need it because people from Greece, especially Greece, do I think, or from countries where people already have a position and need a position elsewhere, because of the circumstances in that country. As for Hungary, Italy, and Greece, I mentioned them in my speech because they appear on the highest bill. Minister. That's why I specified them, not because I looked at and considered them from them, but because of the words I consider to be the minister himself or their worth. I have to point it back to the highest. Minister. V.E.G. The minister of justice also says that we are making these adjustments to have laws comparable to those of other countries. Again, I feel like the highest. Minister of Justice did not listen to my speech, but that is what I was criticizing that we were always caught up with, trying to react the same way. The problem isn't getting better. He's not getting better, a respectable president. This is not working, and it has been tried many times under various circumstances as a result of a lot of different problems, and the problem always gets worse. Why, Mr. Honorable President? Because we think this wrong, the substance of how we approach the problem is wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u100	A respectable president. The answer to my question is 0. That's why I'm asking. A senator, because he is here stirring up the eyes of people who are trying to understand a complex and elaborate system that is not all being understood in its entirety, as there are different kinds of cases, different definitions of various concepts and complex systems that we have been trying to develop in the last few years. We're responding. Hv. One senator says that we are always responding to limits to people's rights. But what's the story here? The story is, we've never given any more international protection. And why is that? Because, no matter how many, those who come and have the right and the right to do so will get international protection. But we must be able to deal with that number and group in order to provide them with international protection and speed up other issues that generally lead to negative results. That's how the system works. It's all backwards with what's wrong. A senator who tries to dust up a bad and inhuman system that is not at all. We're doing good. We are always trying to do better, but we also want our system to control what they see, that people get answers sooner. Then it can be surging and wondering if the entire European system has become out - of - date. There is talk in Europe about greater solidarity, sharing the responsibility. There is little solidarity to that effect. But that's not what this bill is about. It's about us wanting to do better and answer people sooner, which is part of it. But it will not change how many people here receive international protection because it is always defined as in other countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u101	A respectable president. I realize this bill isn't about the input I like to use it. It was my criticism, a respectable president, and I'm not in favor of this bill and will not vote for it. That's because it's not about things the way I wanted to do it. To the highest. The minister of justice has suggested that there is no argument against the case presented here. For Hungary, the highest will be. Minister of Justice to be talking about a group other than the one here because I referred to the bill's report. It says, by permission of the President: The applications received between June 15 and the end of 2020 were about 70% of the cases, or 288 of 407 applications, from persons who have already received international protection in Europe, such as Hungary, Greece, and Italy. A respectable president. I have my data from a bill at the highest. Minister of Justice. If the number is 0, I can't figure out why it says "Uzbland" in exactly the group I was talking about. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u102	...is not sent back.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u103	V.E.G. A minister may be referring to another group, but I'm talking about this group. [[No.]] [[Up front.]] I'm so impressed with the way I speak. Justice minister and others are always given in the debate, especially from the authorities, and especially from the counsels of the Independence Party and, in particular, the legal guardians of the Independence Party, such as the system we have decided to approach it must be correct, and that whenever we make it more efficient, we are doing the right thing. That's a misunderstanding, a respectable president. We approach the problem in the wrong direction, and the Minister of Justice should rather talk to the other European countries about how we could share, Europe, receive more and distribute temporary stress in different parts of Europe, rather than abdicate how each one of them can handle what he can do. That's the problem, Mr. Honorable President. I don't know how to explain this any better than I did during the discussion earlier, but I think I'll go to the highest level. The Minister of Justice is either turning from what I said or talking about something else. [[The president calls.]] I'm going to be generous with that and assume that the latter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u104	Mr. President. That's why I'm coming up here. There's words like hell. A senator fell on a media medium, a small medium of the media, a Radio History. This is the second time I witness that he believes he is suitable for a small private, private firm from the General Public Meeting. I'd like to say what. A senator in the best of my kindness that I don't think it all proper to use the public speaker to run the corners here in Icelandic private companies that have to fight for their lives every day in a very difficult, challenging environment and for one thing. A senator does not like some opinion expressed there. True, because there is an open phone time that many people use to promote their views, which they may not be able to do in many other media. But I'm just saying this to what. A senator with all his best kindness.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u105	Now, the president doesn't think of it as an answer. This should be more at home for the President's conference board, but the president is going to overlook it now.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u106	A respectable president. Hv. A senator may consider it somewhat interesting that I speak to individual members of the community, whether there are media or others. I can generally say that it is not appropriate for politicians to be involved in the direct interests of certain media. On the other hand, I've noticed, and I've had enough of it, more respected President, that there are media in our modern society as nonsense and nonsense and to bear many-corrected facts from those who run the media themselves. It's not right. A senator says that the radio phone time is there the framer. It's the people that I'm not going to name, which runs the station, and then repeatedly shut up the nonsense and the multi-corrected buggy records. When I hear the many twisted things, which promote the spirit of foreigners, and among them are all kinds of absurd conspirators, I will only talk about them. I'm gonna talk about it here, and I'm gonna talk about it online, and if I ever go back to an interview on a Radio story, I'm gonna talk about it there. Hv. A senator just has to accept it, but that's how I'm gonna have it. I don't care if it's appropriate, I've just had enough of the lack of respect for some media against all-abundant facts and basic reasoning. I would have thought that a medium would honor to see if what he learns is true. There's one media that stands out from the people I know about, at least in Iceland, and that's who we're talking about here. That's just the way it is, you respectable President. I realize my speeches aren't for everyone. I understand that, but it has to.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u107	Mr. President. We here discuss a bill to legalize the laws of foreigners and the laws of foreign rights. First, I'd like to refer to what the bill says on the subject of the occasion and the need for legislation. On page 18. 9 says, with permission from the President: When the management board in this country faces challenges resulting from a large increase in applying for international protection, it is essential to review the development in order to determine whether this development has a normal explanation or whether it is necessary to change order or to perform a country to respond to the situation. Such an examination needs to take into account the principle and conduct of this country, international commitments in this field, while also the regular work and experience of neighboring countries, such as the Northern countries, to which it is expressed - the Icelandic government often compares itself. This is fine, and I want to use my time here to discuss recent developments in the North countries, especially Denmark and Norway. But before I get to that, I'd like to step back to chapter 6 of the report on the impact, which says, by permission of the president: ▪ TV helps to meet the limitations of the laws of foreigners, No. 80/2016, and thereby make their implementation clearer and predictable and more efficient in terms under law. - And it's under control. Then, with the permission of the president, it goes on to say: ▪ If the bill remains unchanged, the law is not expected to bring about any changes in the government budget, but it allows for greater efficiency in the treatment of foreigners. These words are so that you would agree with them and rejoice that the aim is to be more efficient, but they would certainly have been a sign of higher ambition if it had been made for knots to put further ties on costs that have grown well over the past few years, even though they may have been reduced by the rest of the virus. Mr. President. As far as I can see, the northern countries have taken a turn in their policies on the security sector. There is a strong harmony between Dana and Norwegian. The new policy is to help people by means of international institutions, to support people in a local area where money becomes as useful and useful as most outside the United Nations as a host of people, so called, in cooperation with the United Nations. On the part of the Danish government, a bill has been submitted in line with the course of one company of the government, the Danish coven band. At that time, the Danish National Assembly takes the lead in applying for security workers at reception stations outside of Europe. This was set up and made up a big campaign for the election last time it was elected for Congress in Denmark. This policy of dancers was very much discussed, and it was presented in the declaration of a testimonial who has a title that could be translated as a just and practical total plan for Danish foreigners. It is reason to refer likewise to the Treaty of the Norwegian Government, dated in January 2019, to the government's plans to connect Norway with the European process on a joint European network which may include the establishment of common non-EU sanctuaries and the promotion of the external borders of the Schynen countries. So people see the harmony between Dana and Norwegian. Mr. President. I'm going to refer to articles as temporary minister and adaptability in the Danish government, as co-man Mattias Tesfaye, as they call him to be a minister of foreigners and adapters in order to resort to harsh criticism of the earlier bill of the Danish National Assembly, which is a warrant for transporting the resttrets to non - Europe's receptionist centres. This bill is emphasized by the government, and some call it a rose in her buttons. Criticism was found in the reviews of the institutions, including Amnesty International. They claim that the policy of the Danish government on a reception station involves lack of empathy, inhumanity, and the right to take refuge from the people. In the above - mentioned website, the minister Mattias Tesfaye writes that he is completely at odds with this. He says that we should ask ourselves, " What are the demands of those seeking refuge and refugees, and he claims that the answer is a protection? ' However, this depends on their fulfilling conditions for refuge. The minister insists on his answer by adding that the trustees and refugees do not demand a future in the Western European states: we are not responsible for millions of people taking up residence here, says the Danish minister of the government of the United States of America. In his article, the minister said that the bill on the welcome station will lead to a marked decrease in the number of inmates on the dance grounds. This will result in additional funds to help others in their homes. More refugees are protected from risking their lives on the Mediterranean Sea, where many people have drowned. He says: In countries outside Europe, millions of refugees have been protected, perhaps in communities that look more like the country where they fled than Denmark does. In Denmark, let us contribute to the protection of refugees. They simply do not have a requirement for protection in a welfare state. The minister also says that the arrangement to move the trustees to a third country will, of course, be within the limit of the international commitments that Denmark has undergone, be required for an agreement with a third country. Rather, he points to a legal opinion that confirmed that international agreements that Denmark is not to be prevented by this arrangement. The next round will begin with a more specific approach to countries considered by the Danish government to be a possible member of the Member States. The minister makes a big point of telling the world that the Danish government is being very serious. In this regard, a recent report in the Web site mbl.is, which quotes Dana's prime minister, Mette Frederiksen, points out that it is her goal that no one should apply for international protection in Denmark. That is what she said during a discussion at the dance council. Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson quoted earlier today to a dance number about the cost of trustrs each year, which is attributed to the former minister of the Danish government. He says that after receiving an answer, he costs about 300,000 dances a year each of such hospices. This is what the minister, who is expensive and unacceptable, says this money, according to the current price paid by currency, amounts to more than 6 billion. K. Icelandic. The minister says that a flow to Denmark must be controlled. This saves large sums of money to send out of the country respondents of the shelterers. Money may be used to help many more people and better in their homes. This is repeated on the part of the minister. The minister in his article says: "We help people to speak tens of thousands of times, but they do occur across a dance border, and most of them don't give the same attention at home as the eternal debate about people who have been able to reach Europe and Denmark. A little narrow vision, says the minister. But here, the core of the changed Norwegian policy, I allow myself to say, which is to continue the greeting in cooperation with the United Nations, to reduce the welcome of inmates but to work hard to help people in their homes where money is most effective in helping with the goal of helping thousands or tens of thousands of people, as the minister says Dani has done. Mr. President. This is all a matter of efficiency and provision for limited funds, and since limited funds must be protected in a reasonable and responsible way so that it will benefit to the best of all who are involved and that we fulfill our obligation to the occasion, to the refugee problems that exist, in such a way, in such a way that we can make the most of it possible to make the most of it possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u108	Mr. President. We here discuss the bill of Justice on the change in foreigners. The matter was presented earlier to a 149th legislature of a acting justice minister, a fellow group member of the Supreme Court. the present Minister of Justice, Þórdís Gylfadóttir Kolbrún Gylphad, as well as the Council of 150th. On both occasions, both of them got a strong response on behalf of both of us members, but also on the side of humanitarian organizations, members of society, and institutions working in human rights. Today when we discuss this bill, however, slight changes have been made, but unfortunately, no major material adjustments have been made, even though some of the councils were present and claimed to be. Likely, this is so as to have only a better conscience in the group of languages, but they are not enough to be delivered from this bill. You see, there is an old, tired, tired, tired, and unpopular acquaintance that no one wants to see, and unfortunately nothing has been set up by any real but a doll in this bill that contains exactly the same Polish and a approach to the affairs of foreigners who are looking here for international protection and formerly on the Independence Party watch. The people who come to us here for international protection, as we know, do not include repeated non-required applications, such as climbing on the bill, but are that the main people who are looking for peace and tranquillity, away from wars, incompetent, and even the consequences of climate change, such as drought and progressive and rapid changes in the ability to produce food. But back to the bill. However, I would like to say that there are positive things I would like to keep in place for family unity. That provision has been added. Thanks, too. The review of the very existence of the United Nations Refugee Agency, who saw reason to send to our National Assembly of Iceland for a review of the bill submitted in 2019. That bill was also passed, as I said earlier, by many reviews. The Red Cross of Iceland sent in a 25 - page review, which is almost unique, I would think. In the review of the United Nations Refugee Organization for Refugees of this bill, the prestigious agency made both general comments to our current laws about foreigners, as well as to some of the branches of the bill, which were then submitted to a change in the law of foreigners. In particular, the comment by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees suggested that the legal effects of the law, the definition of the bill's clearly unfounded and repetitive applications, and the family unit of refugees to come to the country, including those of the United Nations. ... onthe administrationofthe administration of the government. It is the latter that has been brought up in this bill. It is surprising that there was no reason to obey and to submit to the comments of the United Nations Refugee Agency on the definition of unfounded and repetitive applications. There have been members of Parliament who have talked about the tremendous, unregistered factually, that there are a lot of people here with repeated applications for protection in Iceland. I'm sorry, Mr. President, I'm afraid not. But it's amazing. The Minister of Justice does not see why this definition, climbed on this bill, is clearly an unfounded application. I'm sure there are some unfounded applications from people who come here to seek international protection, but it's the main thing in the comments of people who come here to us and that it's the end point of this bill is sad, Mr. President. It is also so that the definition of unfounded applications remains linked to a so - called secure source without the clear and transparent list of non-translational sources. Is Greece, e.g. safe from state? There has been an enormous increase in applications to countries such as Austria, Malta, Belgium, France, and the Netherlands from people protected in Greece. It clearly shows us the situation in Greece itself, as well as that it is dangerous to believe that this is really just black and white; if people have received international protection in another country but here, there is a reason to dismiss people. This is sad and what happens now that we have spent more than a year in a pandemic and the situation in countries has been very different in welcoming refugees. Another thing I'd like to mention in this bill is the humanitarian nature of the E team 12. The bill of law, as well as the reference to others. That humanity is not defined well and is also referred to the circumstances in the country in which the individual has already been protected, and that, Mr. President, I simply do not understand. Will each individual's case be examined on the basis of humanitarian feelings? Although the word is a source of authority for people who have been given a permit on the basis of humanitarian thinking, it is still for a limited period of time, and it is not being guaranteed here by these people but remains living in a poor and disloyal position. And what is the purpose, if not to guarantee the rights of people who apply on the grounds of humanitarianism? The humane point is, Mr. President, quite strong. This means that the person has been persecuted, fleeing from the tremendous consequences of intense and prolonged warfare. Why are we entering the bill of humanity if it does not have real rights? In that case, you may suspect that this is actually some form of hyperchloremia, so that people may feel a little better about this bill than they did before. Mr. President. We're on 1st. about the bill and what. The General and Education Committee is going to consider this. Here in the hall, we even sit. Yeah. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, vice president of the Committee and will no doubt ensure that the committee will handle this case well and carefully with visitors and comments that I do not doubt will become many of them this time, as before, when this bill has been submitted with all its faults and unfortunately fewer benefits for those who are looking here. Another part of this bill is the claims that Iceland is doing something better in the company of refugees than the rest of the nations, we are welcoming so many people. That's just wrong, Mr. President. We do nothing better than others. Of course, the European Union has done a measure of success, but we can mention examples of such countries as Germany and others who have also shouldered responsibility and have done well despite the failure of other European countries. I'd like to encourage some indiscretions. A global and educational committee to address these issues I mentioned, i.e. the humane point, the definition of unfounded applications. I would also like to pray. Because it is a matter that we need to take on much greater weight, members of the firmness of our territory. There are treaties that we as nations and countries have not signed, international treaties and treaties that can guarantee people of great and necessary rights, including children born here on earth. Mr. President. There is a measure of the individuality of society. He is the way we treat those who are less fortunate, whether we will bring about poverty, whether we support those who need the support of a decent life, how we accept people who are looking for us for international protection from wars, persecutions, extremes, or the consequences of climate change. Icelandic society is to be wrapped around everyone. No one should be expelled, no children or children's families to be expelled. Much of the public does not want such harshness, as recent polls show. They show a far more positive attitude toward our fellow citizens of foreign origin and, in reality, far more positive than often reflected here in this chamber. That is a sobering thought. We have also seen the spirit of thousands who have taken steps and who objected to the fact that children were to be expelled from the land. It's out of harmony with the will of people who want more humanity, more human kindness, a human kindness that means something because there's a clear willingness to do so in people's lives. So it is disappointing to see this bill appear for the third time no more than it is because we need more humanity in this category. We need a clearer and clearer message about this, not beautiful speech and beautiful promises, but clearer attitudes and actions. We also need to let this human system seize people under difficult circumstances, and once we have guaranteed the rights of people, we need to keep gripping them. There can be such wealth in people who come to us here, and if there's something we've learned from this more than a year of pandemic, it's more compassion and compassion, tolerance, and love of neighbor. With that most weightier at the work of the Committee, I hope that more members of the council who have spoken here today will hear me, as we will handle this with change, if we get through, change is based on a human spirit because there is a clear desire for more people on the land, and that's well, and that's a good sign. I got it. I got it. A global and educational committee to review the history of humanitarian organizations and human rights organizations that will be transmitted through this bill and taken into account.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u109	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to legalize companies for the greater good of the Council Report 1030, in case of No. 603. The bill suggests that there will be special laws on the public welfare of society. The purpose of the law is to provide more solid support to a free social organization that can be considered a public welfare organization. Work on the bill is rooted in the efforts of the Aldermist to the third sector, the preparatory work of the Department of Social Affairs and Security and, later, the Ministry of Employment and Development. The bill is based on an early bill submitted to the 145th legislature of the then industrial and commercial minister, but it did not succeed. As a result, changes in the bill were made to simplify the bill, and it went back to the 149 and 150th C.E. but it also failed to succeed. The bill is now reassigned with the main change from contributions last to the 5th - year exercise companies. Sports songs do not match its values unless it is stated in the approved company. The progressive change is made to respond to comments received from the bill during its therapy in previous contributions. As mentioned earlier, the bill suggests that the total Community law for the public good will be passed, i.e. Societys that agree to their agreement are established for the development of specific, clear, limited issues for the public good but are not set up for the benefit of social services. This refers to so - called ideal organizations established for human development or for something that focus on certain individuals who meet specific requirements or issues that are more closely defined in the approved society. The subject must be considered to be some national agreement, such as culture companies, patients' sponsors, rescues and helpers, consumers and cultures. This would be the choice of a partner if a number of participants were to be chosen. Other forms of associates may be more suitable when necessary, at times, they are directed for the better of a particular subject, as the law of No. 19/1988, on funds and institutions operating under a confirmed organizational registry, and on law No. 33/1999, about auto-employed institutions. The bill suggests that the enterprises for the public goods will be registered in the P.R. list as the head of the head of the tax but that the registry will be part of a company file. It is suggested that the P.R.P. will be selected, although public members can make it possible for sponsors, management contracts and public licenses to be registered to the public goods of society. The concept behind the directive is that state, rural society, government and government government agencies and firms on public property can make it necessary for a general organisation who is reaching out to meet some minimum conditions of structure and demonstrations so that government funds can be monitored and that other sponsors of such organizations can also appreciate how much they strengthen and who are responsible for a more efficient project. This should be made clear, however, that there is a authority for the public to require that a community be registered in a public society file, not obligatory. The bill contains regulations for the establishment of social services for the public good, the main elements of the approved social group as well as the provision for socializing, such as members, entry, extraction and deportation. Also in the bill, there are regulations on how to make decision-making, on general social meetings, on what subjects should be considered on the main meeting and on the main meeting. The bill also contains regulations about the control of the social, its role, and decisions at the meetings of the board. There is also a provision for the recruitment of the Commission and its roles, as well as the role of directors and managers. Governments and managers shall be legal and must have custody of their estate. The bill suggests that a company should vote for one or more accountants, accountants and an observer or member of the community to review annual accounts. It is stated that no later than one month after the approved annual account, it should be published on or officially in a similar manner. The bill contains an arrangement for the wearout of a social group, de-registered, e.g. when a company is retired, and a broken company is judged. Then you can find a set of registrations in your P.A. list, which is a selection plan as stated earlier. A section on the P.R. registry contains regulations on the details to be entered and what documents should be followed by an announcement of the registry. It is suggested that only the members of the public welfare team registered in the P.S. P.A. and if they fall under the criteria of the bill will be allowed to use the identity of the P.R.A. to the public; and/or the abbreviated abbreviation. ... inhisname. If the bill remains unchanged, the law is not expected to influence the survival of a government fund. The cost of registration in the P.R. is expected to be one status for the head of the state tax for up to two years and that the temporary costs will be met by priority within the total budget of the state's budget for the upcoming budget and budget. V.E.G. President. I believe this is an important bill here aimed at establishing a more solid support for a free organization that can be considered a public welfare organization. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u110	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of the history of bill to legalize society to the greater good, and I'm glad to see that this bill is presented here. It's been in the pipes for some years, like the highest. Minister's gone over. I'd like to ask a little more about the changes made on the bill since it was signed at the 150th legislature. Even there was a number of them. responds to the comments of the sports movement, where it was considered desirable to maintain the independence of the movement and its custody of its own affairs, as well as as as as the regular work of Iceland's National Development Association for all the products involved in the movement and activity. I'm very interested in knowing what came out of further observations on these comments, whether it led to changes in the bill, or whether the sports movement will have the same choice as the rest of the team members of the sports movement would wish to join society to the greater good and whether it will have some effect on the exercise movement permanently, or whether the position of the movement or its members will remain unchanged.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u111	Mr. President. This is, in effect, the same bill, unless they choose to be involved, the change is made that sports companies are excluded. If they put in their agreements that they're going to fall here, they'll do it, but otherwise they'll have the authority to be out of the way. It is the change I decided to suggest in the light of this relationship, to meet ISI, to meet that level of activity. This is the result of a conversation, and it can be said to be an intermediate. It's simply up to the sports movement to see if the budget wants to be in, and then they have a choice. The Ministry had quite a number of meetings with ISI in view of the last accounts of the relationship. Then there may be a question about the interaction with a bill that the secretary of finance asked about the third sector, that interaction is also up to ISI. There are certain requirements, and if there is a desire within the movement to make use of them, they are the kind of ones they are, and ISA is in the best interests of them. But this bill is just unchanged, apart from the fact that the ISI and its societies are dependent on whether they have it or not. They don't have to, but they can put it in their agreements, if they choose to be with them, they can. IT WAS informed of this crash and did not make specific comments to her. I hope this case, as it is now, will receive its regular treatment and be resolved.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u112	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. In fact, it is clear that each society will simply evaluate the entire legal environment and where it will be best paid. There is a significant change in the legal environment and the system that is going to be around funding for the public health sector. I understand that it should be possible to promote all the volunteer work in the country, which is very important because various societies and organizations represent very important activities in all areas, whether they are rescue teams, sports activities, loyal associates of various kinds, or other public welfare organizations. And although there are also forms of social activity that will not depend on these legislation and that will be of no benefit to them, these legislation should not interfere with their social activity if I get it right. I wish for the highest. A minister may come into it just for a moment and ask if any society can choose not to take any consideration of this legislation and be nothing to ask for support, whether it is not the correct understanding that it is absolutely the choice of a partner where they stand in that regard. Then, of course, I agree with it. The minister said in the previous answer, I hope most of the problems have been cut off.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u113	Mr. President. Yeah, it's the right thing to do. A senator with regard to a partner's choice inside the ISU. It is their choice, as it were, to appreciate the overall laws and how they consider their interests to be best paid. Of course, there are very rich demands on ISI and there is a great international cooperation. However, to gain access to certain elements or environments here, they need to make decisions. The same is true of the second question regarding whether companies can choose to be out of the picture. It is also the correct course. That's the case with a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u114	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to correct a temporary reimbursement of film making laws in Iceland, No. 43/1999, on deck. 1031 case 604. The subject of the bill is largely bilingual. On the one hand, the bill suggests some changes in the law in order to respond to the comments of the Kingdom Accounting Agency reports on the reimbursement system from October 2019. However, the bill suggests that the length of the law will be extended to December 31, 2025, while the law will remain unaltered at the end of this year. In particular, the main element of the bill focuses on the following factors: First, it has to do with the confirmation of cost resolution. The bill suggests that the cost of filming is generally confirmed by an accountant but is not fully revised, as it is currently defined. Thus, the requirement that the cost of projects should be fully revised in the sense of law on accountants and the confirmation of accountants being satisfied. However, it is suggested that the exception of the requirements for validation of accountants should be a project in which deposit level does not exceed 3 billion. K. In addition, it is clearly stated that an accountant, together with the management and executive of the applicant, must confirm that cost is in accordance with the regulations and regulations, but such confirmation by the administration and the executives will be sufficient in case of a small task. These changes are aimed at strengthening monitoring and clarifying the requirements for candidates and in this Regulation the details of the confirmation of the accountant's work and the format of such confirmation should be further defined. Second, this has to do with reducing production costs. One of the suggestions in a State Review report includes the need to revise the law with the aim of clarifying the cost of reimbursement. Government reviews consider it important to always evaluate the legal cost of reimbursement and require disintegration at the cost of production. To meet these indications National Reexamination is suggested to add a law definition of what constitutes the cost of manufacturing which can provide a reimbursement, and this is followed by the costs not considered to be cost of manufacturing. Special attention should be given to non-productional support, although it may be considered as the general cost of production by a company authorised to reduce employment revenues according to the legal requirements for income taxes. So the bill clearly sets out the cost of reimbursement. The thought behind the separation is that impulse - building systems should be primarily tied to the laid cost of the activities or to-dos that fall into the production of films that depend on the law. This cutoff of production costs takes into account the production in Norway and the Czech Republic reimbursement. The UK system was also reviewed on the link between production costs of the subject and the film manufacturing process. Third, the bill is the extension of the law and the reimbursement system. A film - making reimbursement system was started in 1999. It consists of a state support system that depends on the EEA's national standards for support and was accepted at the time of ESA. As a result, the law has always been temporary, in the terms of the law, a temporary reimbursement of filmmaking. This is in accordance with the principle that a government strategization system in the European Economic Area should be reviewed on at least every five years. The time of the law has been extended four times and the current law has not changed its value at the end of this year. In view of the scope and translation of films for the Icelandic economy, the bill suggests that the duration of the law will be extended again to the end of 2025 and will continue to be granted temporary reimbursement for filmmaking in this country. Fourth and final, the bill holds access to presentations. Today, the National Institute of Iceland has the task of presenting reimbursement systems to foreign manufacturers and is aimed at the purpose of the film-inceland project. It is considered important that those producers who have a reimbursement of production costs allow the National Institutes access to the products associated with the relevant projects so that they can be used for the marketing work of the Iceland Office. This is normal and is normal in comparable national support systems. The bill suggests that such a duty is laid down as well as required by the fact that it has been given support on the basis of the law. With the bill, the bill previously stated that it was tailored to a number of problems between current reimbursement laws in the light of the National Reexamination Guidelines with the aim of ensuring the practical use of funds provided for reimbursement and promoting monitoring of the system without weighing it or making it unduly complex. At the same time, the bill has been extending the reimbursement system for four years, as previously done. The modern Icelandic remuneration system is generally considered global competitive, simple and efficient, in fact much simpler and more efficient than a comparable foreign government aid system. The reimbursement is intense, and it supports this claim. The film industry in Iceland has grown over the past few years and has become an important foundation for our economy, with many positive side effects, especially with regard to a national presentation. I believe that it is important that we continue to support and promote filmmaking in the country as we have and be alert to developments around us. At the same time, we need to evaluate in what way that Kingdom support is and what the effect on such support systems is. Of course, we have a lot of unsolved opportunities when it comes to the film industry here. With new studios, a larger portion of projects can be recorded here. Then there is the pursuit of almost independent industry, so we have a lot of time. That's why I believe that this kind of system is important, and we find that we can get to the map by having one, but a system isn't the same as a system. It matters that it's competitive, it's efficient, it's clear what the rules are, and that we're at any given time sure that it's giving us more on a global level, and that it's a positive thing for the country all that we have such a system. In view of this, I recently appointed a Ministry Department work force that has the responsibility of assessing the current remuneration systems in accordance with proposals for film policy for Iceland from October 2020. The work force has already begun, but it is expected that he will submit his proposals later this year, and I will simply put high hopes on that work and the points that are taken into consideration. A respectable president. After the discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u115	President. It's coming to the top. I don't suppose a minister is surprised by the fact that I'm coming up here when we pick up this particular bill. According to one report, with the permission of a president: the law includes a government aid system, but all such laws should be reviewed regularly in view of the needs and impact. I'm going to do a little better on the report in my next talk, but I'd like to ask the highest one. Ministers in view that now this bill is presented as important. This system has to be extended. The original law, which is an extension of this matter, was made temporary, but it proved to be so good that it has continued. A year ago, in the pandemic of Covid, we lost our country's biggest industry in a hurry, traveling. Now it's the highest. Minister of the Ministers of Neon, Travel and Industrial Ministers, I hope that I will take this in the right order, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u116	That was the wrong order.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u117	I think everyone knows what I'm talking about, precious seconds here on the right hand side of a speaker. But now the travel agency is under the department. Other countries, to form the Canary Islands, Ireland, immediately increased the remuneration rate for filmmaking and production in order to match the losses of the countries that became due to Covid, which was very effective. These countries are taking our assignment in those spoken words. I'd like to ask the minister why the decision wasn't made here?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u118	The President doesn't blame you. Senators for misdirecting the order. The president would love to do so himself.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u119	Mr. President. I'm gonna give my best advice, which is to remember the acronym FIN, it's helped a lot of people who go in the cell when they have to make four names and three titles. But you're right about what you're doing. A senator that there are indeed countries around us who have a higher pay rate, and it is always a question of how far we want to go in that regard. What matters most is whether our system is good or not. I think people who would like to see the percentages rise still agree that the system is good. It's efficient, it's simple. An overexpensive body can be placed under an institution that is reimburseable. It varies from country to country. But we also have examples in which state, e.g. In the United States, or certain countries have increased their percentage, so either the system was no longer supported or it was difficult to prove that it was still a success for country and nation. And then they began to undermine the system, cut it out, and try to restore it, and that sort of thing. I think it matters to me that this is done in the right order, that we start a lot of work and there's an analysis, part of this group's work going on, to try to figure out what it's doing because it's right behind us. A member of the Parliament that the traveling work as a whole benefits greatly from this consideration and attention. It is up to a third of the tourists who come here to make such a decision after seeing a movie, a show, a music video, or some material recorded here. So the additive effects certainly exist. And I've also mentioned that part of the group's work, and that's a point that I think it's very important for us to consider, to see if we have a stepway, there's a built - in drive in the system. As much as we're concerned here, the more we are willing to yield, the more we realize that whatever we as a community comes out of it, too, so that if a project spends more than a certain amount of money, it could possibly increase the percentage. This is part of what the group is considering.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u120	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. Yeah, I think most people would agree that the system is good. But it's about the goal, which goal you're looking for from a specific system. The objective must be to receive as much work as possible here, a large project where billions are entering the country by means of large foreign assignments. While I agree with the highest. On the other hand, it is like being a doctor with a bleeding patient with a surgical wound, that you just have to close the wound, that you need to work fast, that you have to have quick hands so that the patient does not bleed out. The travel service has been bleeding out the last year. I wasn't exactly talking about, Mr. Honorable President, the land introduction of the tourist service abroad based on the film-making product, I was talking about that with these big projects, people working under a safe Covid Precinct, they're looking out for all of that stuff, on the movie shop. These people have hotels to stay. These people need to make good use of national tourism, recreation and various services, e.g. Restaurant service. So I'm also talking about the overall economy of international tourism. I could give 10 answers to a minister about this. But time is running out. Has the minister of news on Hildur Guðnadóttir and Oscar's Prize proposed by Icelanders for filmmaking been overlooked? [[The president calls.]] Does a minister see that there is a possibility that in the hearing of the council, the General could change this bill so that the remuneration rate for filmmaking would be 35% for the patient to stop bleeding? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u121	Madam President. One thing that needs to be absolutely settled on the council that has the legal authority is that a financial plan is to form 900 billion. K. ... ina reimbursement. A financial committee put over 2 billion at the end of the last year's budget in order to actually meet the events in this country. What I feel needs to be absolutely clear is if we're talking about the rights system, i.e. If the project meets specific requirements, it is simply right for this reimbursement, or whether we are talking about some kind of roof, first to come, first to be able. We've done it, so it's just a system of rights, and it's made up of commitments on the part of the State, and it's actually been corrected. I think there needs to be absolutely evidence that this is the understanding of this system before we start discussing it to a larger percentage to make it even bigger. There's been a year and a year before, and in the years, it's gonna be over 900 million. K., based on what we're looking at right now. Last year was the peak, and growth is tremendous, and opportunities exist. It is true that the tourist service suffers very before a pandemic and the decisions made in view of it. But if we were spending money on that bleeding wound, I don't know if we were going to take this money into it. To me, this is the point: Do we feel that this system is good and that it will bring more to us by keeping it on, and that's how we go, there are positive things that matter, and that's how we have our payment system? I think so. But I feel that there is a need to be very clear where that limit is because somewhere they must be. If we're going to repay half the money back, there's a barrier to when it begins to matter. [[The president calls.]] I don't know that there was an assessment of where those limits to form. [[The president calls.]] And again, this is part of what the committee is considering.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u122	A respectable president. As long as I'm glad that a group of people are being assigned to these matters, I'd like to reiterate that the Minister's filibly hairy and extremely difficult to find out which number, percentage, is something that I am fundamentally disagreed with. It does not take a professional to see that to be competitive, similar services or conditions need to be performed. We're not doing it right now, not with 25% reimbursement for film making. And because we're not doing it, we're losing big, huge billions of projects, movie projects, to the neighbors. We're losing them to Ireland, who walked forward, shut the patient down before bleeding, raised his payback. A nation that was wise enough to do so is now taking an assignment because we are not competitive. We'll have a fraction of what we might be having. I can take a few examples. It's, for example. A film that has drawn enormous attention to the world's world and that has drawn from it a title for the Oscar Prize. In that film Iceland is a great deal of history, but because we weren't competitive, because other countries around us have a higher remuneration rate, a better cover around it, Ireland that reminds me in this particular situation, they didn't record in Iceland where the story was supposed to happen. This is a reality, and there are countless others, unfortunately, a respectable president. I understand that money needs to be taken care of, we have budgeted, and we need to know which crowns are going where, cross and howl. But it's just so that money comes in first. The funds flow into the country, through the economy, and so on, at the end of the project, when the product is prepared, to relatively stringe up conditions, reimburse a bit of the money that came into the country. This happens later, and sometimes not because sometimes conditions are not met. And what happens at all that time? In one instant, jobs, hundreds, and sometimes thousands of jobs around one film, often a long - term job, take a good time, a month, maybe a year. One way is through the product and through a link that is formed in this cooperation between countries. Not enough of it, we're not talking about special monotonous jobs or just putting something to one reserved article in which a very uniform group is working. No, we're talking about a huge variety of fleas from work that's gonna get started on this kind of project. I highlight my assignment in my speech, the president, in foreign assignments but also in Icelandic projects. They're also enormously important, so it's clear that they won't be held in my language here. I haven't gotten any evidence yet, any solid reasons why the reimbursement has not been raised, except that they don't know exactly what the numbers should be. It's not hard to answer, Mr. Honorable President, what should be the point. She's at least not to be 25%, I'll say. I'm telling you, while we're bleeding out, we're missing assignments, more projects where Iceland is the scene, to the neighboring countries. V.E.G. Minister came into the hot, new, exciting movie policy at the top. Secretary of education and culture. It's an ambitious course, and it's cool, and it's well done, but it's not enough on its own. The policy needs to be that it is real political interest, economic political interest in making Iceland an attractive place for foreign film projects, for foreign producers. It's not enough, and it's a cool piece of paper. Minister. In addition to policy, there is now a university education in Iceland's Art University. There are vast educational opportunities for young people who look to other types of education other than academic studies. How pleasant and pleasant it would be for those years to graduate so that the landscapes, attractive landscapes to receive them, to receive newly graduated, mine - trained, hot domestic people in filmmaking, so that what is happening is not happening right now, that we would lose the human race out of the country to the countries that dared to close the patient while he was bleeding. We're losing resources from the film industry to foreign countries, to Canary Islands, to Ireland. It's awful. I've been saying something about it and I'm going on about it. A respectable president. A year ago, at a mass epidemic, Covid-19 a year ago, and as noted, we lost our classic tourism services, which had become so big and important to the economy. However, filmmaking is an exceptionally adaptable industry, and it has been shown in Covid's time that production can continue under strictly controlled supervision. History has been developed and tested, and a safe work environment has developed around these productions. It has become the most important and important thing for us to do when we get out of the land of Covid, it is binding here to the point where unemployment in this country will not be 26% long longer. There's a job opportunity. It's a market and land espionage, like the highest level. The minister came in. It's a land espionage without a direct expense. The bill tells us that rights are available to those who are employed in promoting Iceland in a foreign field. They receive some of these products, some presentations around them. I'd like to emphasize that this is a land presentation without a direct cost at the outset. They're currency companies. And that, a dignified president, is an enormously competitive film industry on an international level, and it can often be very small when competing for what to do. For instance, we need to take action, and sometimes we've lost jobs because we don't have a popular movie theater. V.E.G. The Minister of Education and Culture has spoken of how to build a nice, big studio would still increase our odds. This has been done. This has been done in sports, has been done in soccer. Then a political decision has been made to deal well with the sport, based on large soccer stadiums, and this nourishes the long - term political growth. It has been a long - term thought in this article, and it has certainly paid off. We know most of the success of the Icelandic football team this year, and this is an article that grows and thrives. I'm just going to get back to my filming jobs. There are opportunities and jobs from being perhaps the first person to think of; acting, actors. It's music. It's also an injection for the music sector. It's all workin'. We saw in the north that the Symphony band has been recording music for foreign assignments. This is an export vehicle that can be exported through the Internet. There's no need for a ship, or an airplane, or that classic coat. This is an export branch. V.E.G. Similarly, a minister came in on demand and found that there was an opportunity in it, and that is, quite frankly, true. Moviemaking is the product of a huge industry that continues to develop. We're seeing a three - dimensional development and a combination of technology that's gonna blow up and that doesn't mean everything's gonna have to blow up. It's such an opportunity for land and nation, for us to get out of the present crisis, unfortunately, such as a mara over land and nation, a unemployment crisis. We're talking about a very serious thing. We're talking about industrial creation at a time where unemployment is on historical level. It doesn't work, a respectable president, in my opinion that Ministers are getting in the way of themselves whether it should be this one or the other, or that some other minister doesn't get it into an excel document right away, even though it's easy to prove all the economic effects this has. It's a small matter, a simple matter to discuss it all and do it. Madam President. I believe in the best in people, and I believe in the Generals and the work here. Now this bill is through 1st. and goes to the committee. I hope to the highest. The General will be lucky in the conduct of the Parliament to change this number, this 25% reimbursement number, to at least 25 percent. 35% and that there is no need to wait for results of a table and a plate to be provided. It's just a political decision to work together to create a deepening environment for filmmaking in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u123	Madam President. I totally agree with what. A senator of our roles, and it's important that we have a deep - seated environment for this industry that is supposed to have a bright future for me. Of course, the supply of materials has grown tremendously, and we can find a good place in it. I'd like to ask after a talk. A senator, sir. A senator believes that the more reimbursed the better, the equal signal between it and the quality of the system. Hv. A senator mentioned that we should compete with the best systems. The Canary Islands have 50% reimbursement, so if we are going to compete with the best systems, we would likely be considering a 50% reimbursement. Then there's a question of how the system works and what its efficiency is, which I allow me to say is much better here than there. Part of my speech seemed to me. It is claimed that the Icelandic film industry was bleeding wonderfully. I don't agree that despite the fact that I have heard examples of projects in other countries too, but here and there, it is claimed that this is because the system does not succeed. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament what is the basis for this 35% analysis and whether there is a diagnosis that might help with such a decision. A movie conference describes the need to ensure the competitiveness of the system and take out what it is like to do. In fact, that is exactly what we are doing with this group. There are also other factors in the competitiveness of the system here. In Iceland, pay costs are high, e.g. considerably higher, it could also be said that in order to increase the competitiveness of the article, pay costs would have to be much lower. I'm not sure that that would be so. [[The president calls.]] Of course, there are many factors that affect the competitiveness of the system. To compete with the best systems at each time, with the permission of the president, in English ◯race to the bottom-temperature;--I don't know if that's the best way to secure the sustainable system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u124	The President reminds us that the matter is Icelandic. If so, it is fine to translate what is said here in a foreign language.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u125	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers for the counter-sponsored. Whether the number should be 50% or 35% and competitive. No, I'm gonna go back a little. V.E.G. A minister asked me if I felt that I would have to compete with the highest numbers each time to be competitive. No, of course not, I don't think so. However, I believe that according to the close environment we are competing with, these numbers need to be at least in the same place. The other, of course, is a political decision. V.E.G. Minister spoke of 50%, that some countries have decided that the number should be 50%. It was a political decision that was taken from a specific courage at the beginning of the pandemic to get the start of competition, to say: "Here we are, and we are going to get this industry to us. They succeeded and will do so long after Covid has been hit. Behind the 35% point, I have the best knowledge, the criteria to which other parts of the recovery system are similar, but this number, 25%, is the difference between the systems, and therefore this specified number is developed. This is the adjustment that needs to be adjusted so that we become competitive from such recycling systems. - Time's up, but I'll have an answer later.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u126	The answers are actually over, the highest. Minister will not use the right to another answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-17-68.u127	Madam President. I recommend a bill to legalize the loss of the law on the index of construction costs, No. 42/11987. This bill is written at the Ministry of Presidency in cooperation with Iceland's Habitat. This includes special laws on the index of building costs, No. 42/1987, a dead end to a U.S. Habitat Act and a public economic report, No. 163/2007, considered sufficient. In addition, there is a change in the law on punitive tax, No. 153/2006, which refers to the law proposed to be canceled. The bottom line of the story is that the industrial organization sent a message to the Ministry of Presidency requesting that the index of building costs be revised and more specifically targeted at construction costs without any merit tax. It says that changes in the reimbursement rate due to the campaign all work in the direction of the index, which does not reflect the actual costs of contractors, and therefore has an abnormal impact on contracts associated with the index. It was suggested that a merit tax be removed from the index. On behalf of Iceland's Habitats, it has been concluded that there is a better chance that the index of construction costs could not be measured with a merit tax, where construction arrangements have changed over the years and are moved by individual contributions to construction companies. Enterprises live in an internal and tax system and therefore do not have the right to reimburse any valuable tax. At the same time, Iceland's Habitat believes that due to the development of law on Iceland's Habitat and Public Economic Report, no. 163/2007, in fact, does not need the indexing of the building costs as well as their criteria no longer exist. The primary objective of suggesting the deportation of the law is that Iceland's Habitat will be enabled to update methods of measurement and calculation of the index according to the international development of methodology. Iceland's Habitat then can even. a change in the value of the index tax in order to be in line with the implementation of another member of the North countries where the value of building taxes is measured without worth tax. Special laws on the index of construction costs were set 1987, but it was important at the time to promote the legal framework of the index for its use in a credit sheet, published in the year 1979-6971995. The law had an important value for Iceland's Hauspah when it was put in place and committed to the Agency. access to expertise, including the construction industry, which was necessary to ensure the quality and credibility of building sciences, as well as to determine the handling of a tax product and later the value tax in accordance with the existing tax environment. Madam President. When Iceland's Habitat Act and Public Economic Report Act went into effect in 2007, a tool was set up for the Agency's activities, which can replace the trust that ensures Iceland's Habitat access to information and expertise. Furthermore, the role of the index of building costs can be considered part of the credit sheet assessment after 1995 when the loan sheet was dropped. So when the case was taken into consideration at the Ministry of Presidency, we thought that there was clear evidence that Iceland's Habitat Act and Public Economic Report laws were in place enough for the calculation of the index of the building costs. At the same time, I would like to mention that structural indicators in other parts of the North are measured and published in accordance with local economic laws. Madam President. This bill was signed by consultation and a request from Iceland's Haust, the Association of Industrial Affairs, the State's Commission, Housing and Mobilization Agency, the Union of Iceland and the Federal Republic of Iceland. In addition, there was a law code and plan that the bill was published in consultation. The conclusion of the discussion was that there was no basis for canceling the special law, which the Habitat will continue to calculate and publish the index of the building costs. Madam President. I suggest that the bill be referred to the Economic and Business Committee after this discussion.
