ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u1	Borist has received a letter from the Deputy Directorate of the Independence Party, Vilhjálmur of the Árnason, of the 7th, of Vortís Haraldsdóttir. We're out of here. "I can't attend next week. Today, therefore, a second substitute on the independence party list in the district, the Sigþrúður Ármann of the Year, while 1 strategist has already taken his seat.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u2	The letter of the Sigþrúður Ármann has already been investigated and agreed, but it has not previously taken place in the Council and is therefore under oath to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u3	The Sigþrúður's Ármann has now signed a solemn pledge to the Constitution and is welcome to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u4	The president considers it possible for a meeting to last longer than the Council of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u5	President. It says that the changes in my share are being made to a budget on a panel. 228. They are in 10 teams, and they are well supported in reporting with the suggestions. These include: discussed in the section's descriptions. Refuse is reserved for an audience in a budget board, which, however, is fully involved in the work of the Committee, but it is not permitted to present its own independent committee opinion. There will be no more time for the publication of these joint proposals than has already been done by members of the smaller section. However, it is worth a special attention to the five stipulations of 900 million. K. a donation to finance psychology services. Following the initiative of the restoration, a law was adopted in the middle of 2020 that health insurance includes essential psychotherapy and other useful treatments for HCPs. So far, not enough money has been spent to live up to the content of the law, which still was a very broad convergence to set. I hope this is a better thing to do. We live under special circumstances, about which no one shares. The global epidemic has been going through for almost two years. Unfortunately, the latest news of his walk does not give rise to much optimism. There is little evidence that it will soon be completed, and we will have plenty to prepare for it, even for years. This requires that we reexamine how we deal with the problem we face. Sadly, he is not short - lived but long. There is an ongoing emergency in the health system. Despite the fact that its workers have dealt with all the events in the past, it is not possible to expect a longer period of these things. It is neither right nor realistic to require health care professionals that these conditions are the new norm. It will be managed by longer-term action that enables the system to deal with this problem. Otherwise, there is a far worse situation, where employees become discouraged and give up. A person's health - care facilities - especially at the national head hospital - are unusually busy and should not be surprised. Who chooses a field of activity in which there is a constant crisis? Can anyone really expect that? President. Unfortunately, this financial bill does not show that the government recognizes this problem and its possible consequences; the real horror that would exist if the health system could not survive the viral epidemic for months to come. What? What happens if the epidemic continues and there is no improvement? All the government's talk about system problems and reorganization is really just some sort of premise. We know we have an emergency problem, and he must be solved by emergency procedures. We simply need more employees in order to make room for emergency care. At that time, there will be room for sick people in the hospital wards to get people out of the hospital in other types of service and care. We don't need experts to tell us, even if they are compared to Messi football, they won't solve this problem for the government. It is as if the government does not recognize the cost of the epidemic if we are to face it without having the support of a powerful health system. Or is this just gonna work out? A long term epidemic also requires review of other measures. Business life has been taking over. Again, Iceland has shown its unique adaptability. Unemployment and economic growth have been restored. Although there is still a long way to reach the level of travel and restaurants, there has been considerable growth in employment. Severe prolongation of the pandemic requires that this adaptation skills be replaced and specifically considered as supportive but only measures that temporarily reduce the loss of the less invasive sectors. In this context, the position of the State Fund is causing significant anxiety. Sadly, the first government did not use the scope for the epidemic. Instead, government funds were permitted to decline on the adverse side of the disaster and became helpless as early as 2019 C.E. The government increased expenses without looking to strengthen the financial base of the state's budget and support the promotion of employment. In spite of this, and despite the long - term effects of the viral cohesion and unusually lean years, there is no maintenance or policy to strengthen employment adaptation in the bill for the 2022 budget. In view of a reduction in expenses due to degradation of specific temporary Covid activities, there is no repercussion in the state of the budget. There is nothing more to see than that it is the hope of the government that the solutions will fall from heaven. Or is it supposed to be an Icelandic government business? Government funds were already filled with irons before the pandemic struck. After the years ahead, the state's budget had no room to deal with the emergency in any way other than an increase in debt. Thus, all measures have been based on borrowing, mostly foreign risk loans. It follows that continuing to do so is a threat to the sustainability of the money. There will be no avoiding the long - term compromise of the State Fund on the nation. It will lead to the expansion, which works against the Federal Bank's stability targets, and it calls for further growth, with the related consequences for corporate debt families and investments. A growing proportion of the government's income goes on to live up to debt. If expenses do not support economic growth, the pay will eventually come. Government services will be cut down or raised taxes - taxes that are already with the world's greatest known. Increased taxation and increased activity of the public reduces the ability of the economy to produce valuables and the loss of long-term economic growth. Thus, this trend is a major concern. The proposals that the government offers to increase are not put to the fore, since negative consequences will be the least. There is no suggestion for a realistic taxation of resources, which the World Bank has, among other things, pointed out to be an extremely desirable source of income for the Icelandic government, due to the low impact that they have on the commercial life. Do not consider getting the market's food on the real value of a quatan or following the Norwegian example and placing taxes on an energy company. Instead, alcohol costs are raised by $3.2 billion each year. The tents that bite at most on a very weak food and travel sector and, of course, the public who drink alcohol, that gives an eye to it. And while alcohol costs are up to $2.8 billion, waste disposal is a wish for an increase in proposals of 300 million. K. In many places, comments can be made to an extraordinary amount of money. Business and services organization, professional drivers'numbers, and the originals pointed out, for example. reports that drug costs for 2022 were estimated to be $2.5 billion, according to the early estimate of Iceland's Medical Insurance. SI's primary assessment has generally been very close to its final cost, which is based on objective and careful diagnostic work. However, a schedule such as this may increase pressure and compromise the safety of the country. Additional contributions to micro-energy pensioners are a good price paying. However, when the growth in donations is corrected for inflation, there is very little left, or a 1.5% increase, which is actually 4,000 k. ... amonthof full biofuels. The U.S. Marshal of the Council plays a vital role, claiming that 36 million people are missing. K. to be able to provide effective, realistic monitoring, which is particularly important in a government that puts great emphasis on government affairs. Perhaps that is why the office is kept sick. Iceland is in a very attractive position to set an example in energy exchange and to deal with a contribution to non-carbon welfare society. We have the unique scope of renewable energy and knowledge to use it for energy exchange. In spite of this, there is no evidence that the government intends to place a special emphasis on financial climate, at least not as important as possible. We are at a critical point where it is important for all years to narrow down the emissions of contaminated gases. Reverence encourages the government to go much further in the use of economic motivations to advance this trend. Carbon taxes need to be raised and, at the same time, improved support for investments, reducing emissions. The rise in carbon taxes may have negative effects on vulnerable groups, but lack of income can be ensured by reducing the same public charges. In this way, companies and homes can be motivated to act quickly. There are other solutions available on climate levels that would hardly mark the budget, such as. A requirement for enterprises setting up targets for emissions. Let us not forget that all such measures will help to improve the quality of life in Iceland and in the world as well as to increase global production. President. A long - term viral epidemic calls for a review of government reactions. No more milk can be milked out of the health system if this is not to be caused by continued stress. Propulsion and economic pressures need to be changed. A continuing adaptation of industry to new realities is required in a society where Covid passes. This needs to be done without putting the money on its side. The government must immediately withdraw the convulsive action in the sectors that have been best out of the contractions of the past process. A plan must be made to master the head of a government fund for stability. Stability is the best way to encourage the career to continue the pursuit and increase the value of life. Without it, its willingness to take risks and its ability to build up long - term will be limited by the unforeseen cost to the entire nation. There's nothing to worry about these things from the government on this financial bill. President. This is a station bill. This is the bill for those with limited vision of the future. It's kind of, Madam President, yesterday's bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u6	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. I'd like to ask you two points in each answer. It is now discussed in the transformation of the memory of the object, as well as the subsidies of the psychological service. We know that thousands of people sometimes take years or more, which are usually not good for people's mental health, to wait so long. The cost of psychiatry is high, and this is something that rich people can pay without even having to think about it. But I'd like to ask you why. A senator what he believes is the reason for the clear opposition of the government parties, and so we do not talk about conduct at the highest. Secretary of finance here yesterday when this was mentioned. He called it charismatic and other things. What accounts for this opposition? Who thinks what? A senator is to suffer the consequences of not placing funds on these matters, as is necessary and is, in fact, so well. A senator said, "Come over a year since we agreed we had to do it? "
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u7	President. Thank you. A senator for the answer and the questions. I'll try to answer them as best I can. If we start with it, figures in black and white show that people are not well enough and that many are facing problems because of their spiritual well - being. We also know that this is especially among young people. This, for example, is in every place, and especially among groups of people living under extreme and difficult social conditions. How important it is, then, to meet these fine people because the consequences of failure can become so much more expensive to the community; if people are inactive or unable to care for their own lives and jobs. That's very expensive. Of course, in terms of the cost, this type of service requires that we seek it. This has been appreciated by the General, and this is why the law of contributing to the payment of health insurance. The knife, on the other hand, has financed it to be properly effective measures. Frankly, I don't know what's causing. Everybody says it's really important, but when it comes down to it, there's something they don't want. I'm not going to talk about behavior and words at the highest level. Secretary of finance in a pita.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u8	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for a good answer. I want the second question to stick to my health. Like what? A senator pointed out that the health - care system has been funded or subsidied for a long time, and it has had a very bad effect on its design. There is no apparent improvement. Recent figures that appeared in the prestigious morning newspaper, once told lies, say that some 2,000 health - care professionals have fled the country in the past decade in order to work in decent conditions and receive a decent salary in our neighboring countries. And after living in Africa, it reminded me of what often happens there, where people with a chance of going and working elsewhere will. When these classes' pay contracts are sent to arbitration, this is not improved. I'd like to hear from what happened. When it comes to handling the design problem seriously, not just complaining and complaining, he or she talks about digital reforms and productions and other things, he feels that he is not a minister of government.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u9	President. Thank you. A senator for the answer and the questions. Of course, it's not a simple matter, and I'm not gonna say it. I'm also going to make it clear that in the medical system, such as all large financial systems, it always takes to do things effectively, practically, and in the best way possible, because there is an enormous amount of money involved. However, it has become increasingly evident and has come to realize that we have a bottle - neck system that endangers the safety of the citizens and that we have had to take action in the community, especially during the pandemic, which are far too strict because of the fact that they have so much impact on everyday life and employment. If the system were bigger, it wouldn't be that clot in all of this. As I mentioned in my speech, this problem has already been clear to everyone, that it needs to be done. Statistics show that international comparison of e.g. U.S. intensive care and emergency services are very adverse. We've known this a long time. We know that it is not enough to buy a board and a knife and say they have a operating room. You see, it takes people to sit on the board and cut up, and that's where the knife is in the cow, so we use it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u10	Madam President. I want to thank the senator for the tour. I stopped a bit when he turned aside to the different fees the government has chosen not to raise, reflecting their cost. Resource expenditures do not reflect what is natural to drive the nation off the resource; carbon charges do not reflect the social costs of carbon emissions into the environment. I'd like to stick around especially in the second few years. This was much discussed when Katrín's first government, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, was founded and her first task was to cancel the proposed rise in carbon pay set out in the frequent financial minister of exorbitant. The State's contribution to green change may not have to be expensive for government funds. Carbon expenditures and other depositors on pollutants and activities can be a major factor in the cost of green counter measures. It's just not the situation today. Today, we are, for example. with hugely expensive automobiles, with more billion a year's access to electrical cars, and with linking trucks and even several gas cars to car property. But the cost could be zeroed from the wealth of money seen by increasing the payment on the most contaminated cars. This would make this more economic cost more practical for a government fund. It would also increase economic incentives for society to speed up the transition. This is not some flimsy anarchist idea. Rather, it is the core of what the World Bank, OECD, and other experts say about these matters. [[The president calls.]] These people are saying to state: adding carbon, taxing what is contaminated, and using the money to ease people's choice of the green option. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Why is this missing?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u11	The President reminds me of why. The senator should respect the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u12	President. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for the questions and meditations. Yes, it is quite remarkable how these matters all work and how difficult it is to get governments to use methods recommended by international institutions, methods that can at the same time encourage companies and people to behave in a way that is healthy in the way of their environment, and to make the lives of those who pollute their lives. It's an old method, a whip, and a yellow root. Sometimes the procedure must be prepared, but the government has had a problem with it. Of course, there is something very important. A senator reviewed the existing carbon expenditures, as he correctly mentioned, during the short reign of the convention and for the initiative of restoration. It was the first work of a new government then, who had on board representatives who spoke a great deal about the environment and are very interested in them, to reduce these charges. Of course, it's very sad, I don't know, I think I put it that way in my speech, that I think this government is a stationary government. It's a balance that's about doing nothing, and it doesn't interfere with anything that could possibly touch someone.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u13	Madam President. It reminds me that by spring, we may have to triple our carbon pay so that they reflect the real cost of emissions. They realize that such an increase will never be satisfied unless there is something contrary. That is why the carrots are of exactly the same concern as the senator mentioned. I'd like to mention, for example, the Irish carbon bill system where all carbon bills go to pots, climate pots, and every euro that enters that pot goes into something that people connect to the carbon tax. Then people will see the righteousness that is being accomplished. This is not a stock of income for the State. It is a coin used to make society better and better equipped for the future. Half the Irish carbon bill goes to improve housing by using clean energy for heating, and so that less energy is needed to keep people warm, one third goes on social support, only to the poorest people in society - nothing green to it but just fair. All these contributions take into account people's earnings so that people at the bottom of the income ladder get more than the people who can afford to attack the project themselves. As a result, an agreement develops that the carbon expenditures of the Irish are considerably higher than those in this country. It's just that you think it's so set up. The natural word, which can best be applied, is not available in climates when the deadline to take serious action is up to 2030. [[The president calls.]] It's only next term or the second term. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u14	President. Thank you. A senator again. Yeah, it's amazing how hard it is to do this. Hv. A senator mentioned reconciliation. Of course, it is desirable to be able to make peace, and it is very desirable for a system to experience some kind of benefit from being well - behaved. It's very important. A variety of systems exist. A senator mentioned the whole Irish system, which is very interesting, but I think it's also important that we watch it so that we don't necessarily look at it as a revenue tool. It is very important that this is directed so that it comes out objectively, not in itself, as a source of income but as a means of bringing people and businesses into good business, directly and indirectly. Hv. A senator mentioned the Irish arrangement, which makes peace with the higher fees because people see the benefits of what is being done, which are very important because we know that the tendency is that we are so prone to look at these matters from the person's viewpoint and the weakness of it and that it is of no importance in the overall context. Of course, something small is a big one. That's old truth. Hence, it is so important that everyone finds the purpose of working earnestly and with zeal to solve and solve climate problems by reducing pollution.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u15	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson did well to review the stand taken by the United States and the proposals of the government during the absence of Kristrún Frostadóttir, our representative of a budget board, which is under siege, as do so many of these days. Of course, this financial bill is like all financial bills, high-political document. Of course, because we're talking about this just before Christmas, it's a little bit dark. However, this document reveals the priorities of the government, the most important laws each time, and here you can see black in white how money spends on different kinds of lawsuits. In a way, the first budget is a real test of the campaign code. However, these budgets are not in any way consistent with the priorities of the government groups in promoting elections and perhaps just hope. The three groups are not exactly a reflection of one another, but there was no group who promised that high school would have to be cut down, that the National Hospital and the Hospital in Akureyri would be neglected, that cultural contributions would be greatly reduced, or that the desperate and elderly would have to be lenient in the years to come, at least On the contrary, two of the board of directors praised it. Most peculiar, though, is that the laws also cry out against the introduction of the government covenant. When a man was sitting on that Sunday afternoon watching the chairman of the board of directors of the Kjarvalss introduce the Treaty, I must admit that I felt a little optimistic. Indeed, the government covenant does not mention poverty and hardly inequities. Thus, it is not surprising that thousands of children still have to live with want and money shortages, poverty, and the elderly will not be given much hope. But there were other emphasis that made me happy. It was given a high priority on the wide future and how we would have to shoulder responsibility to her and to future generations, that was spoken of the climate, the changes in technology, the aging of the people. It was made beautiful promises that were so simply ice - cold by the contributions of the budget. Then, of course, the right face of this government, perhaps not by individual categories, is revealed, but its manifestation is when such different groups intend to form an alliance for a four - year government. In fact, financial advisers point to this discrepancies in government debates, the text of the Treaty, and the figures displayed in financial policy. A financial body has said that there was a lack of agreement between the Constitution and the government's financial policy. Of course, if we look at the financial law rather than to listen to the beautiful words of the government covenant, the political views of these three categories will appear well together. Their stand remains calm, their lack of courage and indifference toward inadequacy. In addition, this is the vision that can be read from these financial provisions, some form of inadequacy, about getting us into the future that is exciting but complex and cowardly about investing in big and important matters, whether it is the climate or the quality of life of the next generation, to attack action required by a small nation. Let us not forget, too, that a small nation in which almost everyone knows each other is not able to enjoy much disconcerting beyond the financial norms of a wide variety between neighbors. Then it's also just a moral question and something that the presence here does not make possible. This needs to be taken. While the state funds had to set up a large debt due to Covid actions, it can be noted that the event was still much better than expected, and therefore the government does not have an excuse to engage in necessary actions, both short-term and longer, actions that will bring benefits later. Don't think of any increase in expenses as just some future business cost but possibly an investment that saves us later. Of course, it is well known that people who can use medical care, socially active people, people who can share in the community, will be more relieved of the health system later in life. Of course, the same can be said of the climate. Investment now in green structures, green structures, green business, the transformation of important enterprises that are already working in the green also gives us profit in the end. Of course, we are a small nation, and we have had too little economy, but we have seen one and only new foundation grow. Two of them are tourism, culture, and art. We were also completely intertwined, all classes here, through the epidemic that we should be sure to protect homes, businesses, and entire sectors so that they could get through this crisis. True, we have not fully agreed on exactly how we should make adjustments or how the assistance should be directed, but at least that we should take strong measures to keep seawater through this epidemic. In some respects, it has been successful. However, there is concern that only seawater can pass through the epidemic is not enough. We need to make sure that people are properly equipped to cope with the rest. In both of this home, we repeatedly pointed out that it would be necessary to make sure that individuals also get as healthy as possible, and families as brainy at the channel point when it would end so that they won't take years or decades to work up the loss that came up in the two, three years. But this is also true of certain professions. We hear last week that it is estimated that about 20% of independent artists have fallen from the article, gone from the article, an article based on a quality that will become more and more important and valuable to us, which is creative. It will be economic, but it also makes a nation's self - image very important, and it is right to act on it. Worst of all, the situation has affected women who should be concerned about a feminian class, such as left greens, which are often spoken in that way. But what happens? We do not see the location or the need for help that this is being dealt with. Nor do we see in the next year's budget that will make us feel the need for the next additional funds to support these articles because we are still in the middle of a epidemic, let us see how. The kit should be used to address unpredictable changes. However, it is predictable that these groups, both in the food trade sector and in the art sector, will face problems. We already see that. For one or two days, this was taken for a very strong measure of action. I'm not going to question the need to do something, and I've been a public spokesman for the D.A.'s recommendation and is still there. But that does not mean sitting there. Of course, the government after the same government meeting, which she announced to the Continental Action Programme, had announced what means to renew and create new resources for large cultural groups in the food sector, which are now being exposed to large quantities of cattle. Where are those suggestions, Madam President? And because I'm beginning to discuss this, there's news that there's been a gift given to individual artists to hold an event because it was so much laid in place and it was too late to turn around and cancel the event. I don't mean to question it, I think it's a legitimate view, so we have to look at it to everyone. This morning I received mail from the Society of Restaurants, which points out that they've been watched by the Villagers, standing from morning to evening to cut onions, and makinguestbeaf, and God knows what all of this is. Where does all this raw material go? I suppose the people have to eat it themselves at Christmas, food that might have been meant for a few hundred people. There must be some transparency, there must be some equality and justice in this. So I do not criticize that this is being given out because time has been too short, but it must be done in a general way so that everyone will enjoy it because all in these articles are affected. And I ask again, " Where are the actions that should have been proclaimed along with the very thick meeting boundaries? ' This is something that the government cannot compromise, and this should, of course, be taken into the financial arrangement that will be approved. I sure hope so. The chairman of the legal committee here will discuss these matters and discuss how we are going to reimburse or reimburse them. It's like when this budget bill was written, the Covid epidemic has just been evicting, it's over. Oh, no, you're not. A lot of people are going to bleed in the next few months. We can honestly say that the extent of the state funds over the last two years reflects some of the necessary response to a pandemic, but that is not a policy, and that is not a offense. Now we take a third year on response politics, and God knows what this epidemic will last, but we can't deal with it, can't turn all the difficult and necessary questions aside, just because we're defensive. We need to play defense, but we must also be able to play the offense. This is a wise structure, working forward at the same time as it would fit to avoid losing the attack by your opponents. We're not seeing any parishes like that. In climate and environment, hardly in innovation and technological change. There's some increase, yes, and it's done fine in innovation lately, but from 223 it's gonna shrink and run away from it. So do government officials view this as a short - term task in Iceland? Would we not have had to see the increase further into the future? I'm asking, Madam President. Increasing to the climate issues from what was expected in the budget established by the government last year is virtually zero. True, the chairmans of the board of directors told the campaign that the budget is out of date because it was coming elections, and yet it reported it and showed in the budget bill that it is based on this financial program. Then she must be in effect. And there is no increase in climate from what was planned for our last spring in spite of a very loud and loud declaration in a campaign. There is also no educational application, which is key if we are going to any way to benefit from the technological revolution and allow technology to work with us rather than against us, the technological revolution that is discussed in the Treaty so much. Still, I associate education and culture with them, which will be key factors, whether one is going to work in art, culture, accounting, law, or any other way of doing things, that is of great importance to the creative thinking. I can reiterate here, although it's not up to you, Madam President, that I find it hard to convince you how to tear apart the educational and cultural issues and throw over to six different departments and you see no desire for it. I am concerned that cultural issues are being set up with other groups of subjects that indicate that business conditions should continue. Art and culture are so much more than economic things. Although creative articles have an ever greater and greater role in our economy and will do in the future, the art is just a very important thing in itself, as a reflection of society, as criticism of society and popular opinion. It is not to be subject in all situations to any competitive viewpoints, although it may be possible for certain aspects of it to be true. And finally, Madam President, it seems that inequities simply do not concern this government. There is constant reference to making a complete review of the other and this that failed during the last terms. I'm just going to remind you again that people don't eat a full reexamination and people don't live in a complete accounting. People need to be able to live, and it is not enough for the man in 2021 to be able to dress, feed, and have a safe home, though it is necessary and find it very difficult for many. It is also natural to want to enjoy all the beauty and quality of life that we enjoy, whether in the field of leisure, sports, culture, art, or other activities. We cannot create two nations in the same small country, where one half of them certainly has access and opportunity to enjoy all of these, but the other must be content with the necessities of life that our grandparents and we all accepted, being able to live under roofs and eat, and to dress so much more than anything else. Of course, this view of the government is the most serious sign that our basic transportation system is on very weak feet. The position of sensitive large groups in society at that level of government, which is not interested or shows at least I don't want to improve the situation, how their lives play the next few years, and that won't be a pleasure, and that I can't accept, at least not of groups such as left green or forward, five, six weeks before election. An example of this is that basic poverty payments have fallen far back from general pay development in the country. The budget increases the growth in farms and in public labour markets. Now it's time to cut about 90,000 bucks. on the basic pensions and the lowest wage in the country. In addition to this, the government has held back a normal rise in the commercial disability target, which means in English that they don't even have a chance, if they can and cannot all, to improve their income. So microspheres are still maintained and will be held in a straitjacket under the premise that in the lake there is some huge revision to save their ideals. The union will have a full share in that review, and it's important, and I'm not going to belittle it. But the minimum would have been stopping at least so that when we finally achieve this overall review, they would not be drawn back even more than they did when this government began to operate. The same can be said of the situation of older people in the country, people who rely on insurance payments but who see all their pension money or other incomes if they want to lose money because of an out - of - date limit system. With this large group, Madam President, perhaps one of the most tragic groups in Iceland will be seeing as there are 10,000 children in the United States who suffer want while listening to interviews with the deportations that have been distributed by their kindness in elementary schools, talking about how much better it is to have the system so that there will be a lot of money left by the companies so they can see where they're going to go. No, Madam President, we're supposed to have a fair, legitimate and transparent tax system, where we, in turn, have more interest in society and defend the rest. But our shared consumption should not be in the hands of individual companies. Then, of course, it's a capitalist for itself how the government ignores the status of people in a very difficult housing market. We cannot see an increase in the development of social housing in spite of huge increases in housing market prices that are largely responsible for the government's economy one year ago and when it is known to be lacking. It would be more reasonable for the government to produce a long-term schedule on how to control these fluctuations and how to make sure that there is always enough market oer to replace it with, in the event of unsupervised production, always bringing these instructions at least three, four, paybacks that will do nothing but build up the apartment prices and they will immediately bite the second, third, four, four, pay. We know that the society's lowest income has been the worst hit on this insane cost of home living. He has the slightest chance to respond by changing his debt or by changing his loans. Of course, this takes place at all, whether in Reykjavík or in Redfarm, in Kópavogi or in Kaposker, where the market is quite similar. We just can't accept it like that. We must want to build a social, strong housing system while the general public is built on a free market. In this regard, we must think of building apartments that can be bought, as well as building a healthy tenet. I also talked about it yesterday, too, that I have attended several government city conferences, where the same conclusion has always been made that Icelandic tenants are far less interested in renting than tenants in Norway, Sweden or Denmark or Germany. It is always concluded that Iceland is so special that they do not want to live in a rented home. Of course it has nothing to do with it. This has to do with renting here, the lease here is just so much worse than, for example. correspondent in Germany People are so burned with experience that they do not want to be there while 70, 80, 90% of Germans live in rented homes, one of the richest people in the world. It's not about what people want. It's about people's ability to choose and that their choices are good enough for them to choose to be real. In effect, even less wealthy people in Iceland were completely abandoned by the government when the labor - farm system was deposed by an independent group and a forwarding party. There is not enough rent or suitable apartments for people with medium income, much less for those in the weakest position. That is why it is clear to us that this is an enormous project and probably one of the biggest projects we are facing. We should begin to develop the attitude, the attitude of a nation living outside the oceans, and the weather in this area, that housing is not luxury, housing should be viewed as well as other basic needs, but we do not. Therefore, the Union, as well as the rest of the government groups, wants to raise the money that goes into the general housing system and continue working in good cooperation with employee movement and rural society, but the steps the government is taking are too short and too few. In other words, we do not want to change what has started. We just want to do it in a more visible and powerful way. Madam President. This talk cannot be concluded without talking about the child - reform system. This government's program is not part of a child - reform system. This in itself is not to be said, though it may be sad and bitter, and it is even more painful to hear. A social and workforce minister confirms in a speech now several days ago that the child - welfare system should be poverty. It shouldn't be like the rest of the North. I can't figure out where the party is going if he thinks it's normal that child damage starts to go down with the lowest salary. Let it be, though, somewhere in Denmark, I think it happens at 1,100,000 you. K. every month or so. I wouldn't even argue with it if it were a little lower than average income. I think that should be the lowest, Madam President. In the United States and in the United States, as well as in the general population, we view society as responsible for the advancement and well - being of children, and therefore we feel that this is a reasonable step. Besides the fact that children or population growth are also a fairly economic clone for all countries, I think many are beginning to realize that now that population is actually becoming a liability, at least Here in the West. Therefore, we want to balance the status of children with those who do not share their children. That's all it's all about, and that's why we don't want these sharp income connections. It is during this lifetime that the most expensive thing to do is to run a home. You are so right to get into the workforce, and you usually earn less than later. The opposite is that when your children are out of the nest, you have earned considerable rights, many have come into good positions, and then they have the best. Of course, it's good that people have it, but we should lighten up with children. The cost of each home as a result of children is amazing. They are clothes, they are food, school furniture, hobbies, other than that, so this requires more housing, and all of us want our children to be educated. I think this would be a reasonable investment to the future for society. Then I reiterate what I said in the past: I must not view all the expenses of the government's income, as some now do. We should view it as an investment because it will come back. This will result in better education, will be gained in healthy children, this will result in less stress on the health system. It's an investment, but it's not an increase in financial expenditures without anything, such as the highest level. The secretary of finance is now accustomed to looking at things. Madam President. If we examine the financial contributions and the medical facilities, we will find that the increase in the contribution of the Land Hospital is accompanied by a costly task. There is a management of high-success, a legalist on Landakoti to coordinate the health - care system with a pandemic. A lot of things have been done there. However, the increase may not necessarily improve the underlying hospital crisis, although this certainly is a positive step in strengthening health care in the country. I read it in my little members' party party party party list. Kristrún Frostadóttir's daughter's senator, who needed 2 billion people into hospital service next year, and is going to have to cut service to the public if possible. I'm going to leave it alone now, so often I've talked about nursing problems and positions that it is now becoming unstable, but it seems to me that despite the fine campaigns of the committee there, and I commend the committee for having money in there, the situation is still too bad. So this will still be a very burdensome business. With a nation's ever - growing aging process, we must consider a much greater approach to this class. First, natural people are more and more refreshing and are to be made up of so that people can live at home as long as possible. Of course, this could be done with the integration of both health care, home care, and home - care services and the working of nursing homes. But we can do so by taking people into a nursing home, helping them simply to change and adjust their accommodations so that they can live longer. Of course, it is a maintenance cost which quickly comes in plus the state as well, apart from giving the residents a lot more well. This I know is in Sweden, and others are doing well. It's often just about widening doors, shrinking thresholds, raising toilet seat. Of course, it can cost a million. What, though, is the high cost if you watch a day's expenses as a nursing center? Mr. President. We in the United States would have, if we had been in the government with other progressive groups, put in completely different budgets, but it is our share in the government's opposition to improve the budget offered by the government. Government party members will have the opportunity to vote for common proposals of the anti - held anti - Semitic stand, outside the Middle-City, and I encourage them to look at them with an open mind. I'm not going to go over them here, so many senators have already done and I'm sure I'll do it. I'm just trying to remind the management of this. Finally, I'd like to thank the government for taking a huge turn in the adjustment that originally came from the government stand to pay the microdoers 53,000 bucks. Christmas bill. We had to fight for that suggestion for quite some time. We faced opposition from counsellors, not necessarily with the more part of the legal committee, so I don't think it matters now where good comes from, and I think all of us are to be satisfied with the dignity of this outcome. But I still remind you that this is no solution to this group's situation. This is what makes their Christmas celebration more acceptable to them. This relief is to give Christmas gifts to children and grandchildren, to buy hamburgers, and to Christmas halls, to decorate even if there is anything left. This doesn't do any more than that, so I reiterate that, of course, I also want a general review of these groups, but we can't wait to meet them until it's over. I got it. I got it. The representatives of the legal committee to impress them and remind them that it is the council that has the legal authority. We're the ones who make the ultimate decision on what the law looks like. There's no great idea that if we don't always listen to a direct minister's offer, we'd be proud to say, "Yes, yes, we understand your viewpoint, but we disagree with them, we're going to do this a little different. I encourage those in charge to be a little more open to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u16	A respectable president. I come up here to thank you. paritaprevir The son of Einarsson's Logi for his speech. I agree with his Word in that we can disagree completely and deal with but respected opinions. A lot of what happened. A senator gave his talk, and especially, if I take something out, how we have to shape the new issues of older people and how we have prepared them. I cut by the words of a man. A member of a congregation where he spoke about the management of a nursing home. In recent years, this committee has shown considerable concern. In health policy, we have been following this very course. I hear what you're saying. A senator is just the same, at least as I am able to agree, and I believe that in health policy, there is just as much as a plan on how we can use our social housing system to look to older people as much as young people do. But there are other things I want to know. Naturally, we do not agree on all things. Then I'd like to say first: " Yes, I think it might be right around the corner. A senator says that we are writing a budget bill that may account for the end of the epidemic. But it isn't. I can go back one year and say, "Well, we didn't expect to be then in an economic state as strong as we are today. I think that's the conclusion. We do know, however, that we are still in this uncertainty, so I think that the budget is a good testimony that we still want to be careful. We still want to put our trust in the state's wealth that he has a powerful resistance, that we are not in debt to him more than we do. [[The president calls.]] Maybe that's the picture I want to pray for. A senator to respond.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u17	Madam President. To some extent, I'm being advised and doing things so that we're ready to respond vigorously, and I respect it even if I disagree on the approach. What I was pointing out was that the budget is written when people were quite optimistic, but it is now that the epidemic is returning, and we still have a chance to change the budget. At the same time, we see evidence that entire sectors, important jobs, are growing weak and come forward; entertainment and art and culture. That's why I ask, "Why don't we do it more clearly, that instead of waiting for a year and getting something on top of things we're going to press? " Don't we want to take it seriously that 20% of all the independent artists in this country have fallen away from the story? Had it not been done if every fifth sailor had swam ashore, so I don't talk about if every fifth banker had left work. Then I'm afraid something would have been done. This is a very serious thing. We're still too tamed in Iceland to think of art as some cherry on the tree. How much closer it would be to think of the roots from which the tree grows! Thus, these large nations around us do what we would like to say. They crush these people, lift them up, and enable them to live. We are to strengthen this article, we can respond now, and you still have time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u18	A respectable president. I just wanted to draw it here to the economic situation and position of the State Fund that we were predicting a year ago is at least different from our fear at the time. I think it's important that we all agree. It wasn't necessarily clear when we were in action over a year ago that we were in this position. I agree with what. Senator, I think we have to continue to react, and we have shown the flexibility in the handling of budgets and we have responded by means of financial contributions, and we have a further deposit in this budget. A respectable president. I have to, for a word. A senator in his background earlier, reminding us that contributions for innovation and contributions to climate are being made well at the branch point of the section that shows how marvelous these contributions have gone up in recent years. That's why I'd like to allow myself to use my later answer to proselytize it and challenge the claims. A senator said that it had no ambition. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u19	Madam President. I'm sorry if it's anything to do with you. Not good for a senator. I think I just mentioned that something new has been done quite well. I noted, however, that it seems to me according to the financial plan that after 2◯3 years, I was so far away from donations, and I pointed out that this was not a short - term campaign. But better now is not just because of the government council. It is because at the beginning of the crisis, experts predicted in some respects how people would behave, how people would be abused. Therefore, we have no excuse for not taking advantage of that space, up to a further 60 billion, to show a little offense, also to play a parish, not just to be defensive.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u20	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir For extensive speech and many fine points, the Logi of Einarsson's son is given. I agree with him that most likely there is nothing that Iceland is known of around the world than the creative thinking, from the days of Snorri Sturluson to Halldór Laxness, including the Björk and Sigurum, and all the other Arnaths. These are the people who are upholding our name. I'd like to remind you that it's very important, that just as the government was handsomely behind the tourism service when its infrastructure was most dependent on so that its infrastructure didn't rot when the waves crawled over here in the original place, they're branches that hit. A senator has given much importance to the community, both cultural and economically. Then there are the supporting systems of the cultural sector, the creative articles, such as the sound - quality stores and technology companies, in the face of conditions that are facing today. Therefore, I strongly want to make sure that those serving in this field will be taken into account, even though they do not directly have the microphone in their hand. I hope that new planning will also help me build up the creative branches. For a short time, the culture was a little bit like a little drawer in a huge high school department. I am optimistic that by doing this as it is now, this sector can grow and thrive. I also support the demands of restaurants on the localities that must be numbered at this time in the state of the city's height-shason.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u21	President. As to the value of civilization, I think we are. A senator agrees. It is twofold; it is this economic value, but then it is also just what has to do with a nation's self - image. I have sometimes said that we also have to grow the arts that are working on unorthodox art, which, by nature, can never be profitable in any account of the year, because the people are the same for the artists who are working on such a broader market, and research professors are even for people who have become involved in professional life. It is important that we have people in colleges and other places who write and study while we, who are out in the daily job market, can look to them. But I repeat what I said earlier and agree with it. A senator, that it is very important to have some way of dealing with these heavier limits two days ago regarding stage artists, culturals, food fields, and other good ones, two, three days ago, I think, to come. But those hopes were shattered, and in some cases the cost to which the State somehow deserves a debt has come up.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u22	Madam President. You're absolutely right. Einarsson The fact that people have invested in this festival, which is a great concordance, a celebration of consumption and joy. Of course, no one provided the frequency of ultrasound, which now crosses here as in other parts of the world. The budget we're doing here was put together long before it was in progress, and I choose to consider a financial bill to be some kind of primacy that has been proposed for meditation in this hall. And that's what we're doing. We're looking at what we can do better. I'm going to reiterate my gratitude to those with the financial resources that the poor have received now two days ago, and I'm going to hope that what we expect will be taken seriously, and it will be granted to us to be truthful.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u23	Madam President. I wish I were as bright about the budget as it is. A senator, to think of these as just prototypes that would then all of us change to the council. Unfortunately, it is not my experience, although I am not exactly a hump from experience. I've been involved in the deduction of six budgets, this is the sixth budget now, and that's not my experience. Unfortunately, the government has really lost all its resources and more of the budget committees dance small by their heads. So I was urging them to be more independent so that we can achieve the very results that the budget will be more successful. paritaprevir Jakob Frímann Magnússon mentioned earlier. It would certainly be a joyful time, and then we may have moved forward as one step as far as democracy is concerned.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u24	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for a good talk, and there were many things I could agree with. I cut by one in a speech of two. A senator and it was about how many of us smiled at a little smile of joy when we saw some of the government's policy declaration, but then we started to cry when we saw what was really there on a financial bill. It seems that this government is a master at bringing dust into the eyes of people, talking about beautiful actions that are not financed. We've talked about the Psychological Service, we've talked about the innovation, how it's put into the budget now, but then it's just to be completely cut off by a nail in the next few years, in spite of the beautiful government declarations that such changes would be made in the second. That's why I'd like to ask him why. A senator, in which he is only a little more blundered by a financial experience than the person here speaks, how he values the insight into government's real policy of view based on how we read the bill, not the glitter vision presented at the Kjarvalss, but the actual specimens and real things that this government might want to do over the next four years.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u25	Madam President. Perhaps I didn't exactly start to cry like a dog. A senator when I saw the law. It was more as if you were pulled from a delightful night dream into the cold reality of December. This may have been more than what I expected, just because experience in the past four years shows that these different categories find it difficult to take a decisive course in some direction because they share too much among themselves. The insight into what they're really thinking, I came into it in the speech, it's the budget. You see, words must be fulfilled. The words are in the government covenant, the business of the law. There's nothing more to say about that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u26	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I want to talk about something else. A senator was told about this, and it is with means of budgeting. To me, it's putting money in an investment of psychology services. Why? Yes, because if we don't put money in it right now, it'll come behind us in more disability and in the future. The government is always talking about growing out of this, but there seems to be little investments to grow. Just as other members, the World Bank and others, have talked about now being investing, now being built up, now to grow out of this. Counts 'em out. A senator to be a government policy is, in fact, an expansion of the situation? And what do they need to do?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u27	Madam President. In itself, I am fully aware that making great distinctions between investment and operation is important. But I can say with what. In his talk, a senator mentioned the need to think about the issue of spending. Even if these are permanent in the long run, they can be saved as quickly as possible during periods of less stress, e.g. in health care, and more valuable things in the business world. In fact, the prices do not just exist inside the companies, such as the highest. Of course, financial ministers believe, that they will exist by means of good health systems, good education systems, international contracts, and other means. It seems to me that there is a lack of boldness in important investments where there is no disagreement that there is just an investment, e.g. In green industry and climate. But I also feel lacking understanding and wide - minded when it comes to operating expenses that have to do with people who can certainly pay for a long time too. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u28	V.E.G. President. Now that we've been standing here talking for over an hour and a half, we'll have a lunch break soon. It has now been said on the Presidency Committee that regularly pauses meetings to air down because of the causes of disease. I would like to encourage a respected president to decide if we will not take a break and air out before we continue this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u29	Mr President says thank you for the tip, but lunch is scheduled here from 4:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u30	President. The recent elections showed that the people feel that they are doing well. She chose to maintain her unchanged condition and to reject major changes. The Tempting is to act on this will, to avoid difficult decisions, and to rely on it all will be blessed, usually to this point. Sadly, though, such a approach is hardly practical. As early as 2019 C.E., the government's regime had become insurmountable. The crown virus epidemic has then put it all over its side. In the end, the long - standing slopes of the state's funds continue to bite the nation. It promotes expansion, which is eventually manifested by negative influences, such as. inusitis. More and more of the government's income must be arranged for the services of debts, income that the government needs to earn with the taxation of its citizens. Increased taxation and increased activity of the public reduces the ability of the economy to produce valuables and the loss of long-term economic growth. The economy is now being breached. The need for continued government support is decreasing. So the situation is not changed. Difficult decisions are inevitable. Action is needed, whether we like it or not. President. We've seen this happen before in history. Looking around the 1970's, the situation was similar. The nation had been crushed in the form of her husband's failure, and much of her inflation pressure was international because of government funds in many parts of the world and the rise in oil. Unauthorized responses, they allowed continued salinisation on the Iceland State Fund and the pay system, which, in turn, resulted in excessive inflation that took a long time to gain control. The negative consequences of Icelandic families and businesses became large, varied, and long lasting. Better succeeded after the crash. At that time, governments had only one option to deal with and prioritize, but they also adhered to the World Bank Fund's budget so that domestic decision-making was maintained. It is not fun for politicians to have to refuse what they want. The efforts of politicians to stop with unpopular decisions are great, to postpone the problem, and to let the next government deal with it. Those of us who have been selected to make these decisions need to get up. President. Public financial laws were established in order to minimize this danger. They were to support the government in making decisions that are short - term painful, but they were to come up with better results for the long - term nation. So the discrimination of these laws and the quick payment of a budget that we now experience is a major concern. The recent opinion of a financial body underscores the dangers we face. The government decision - making issue is weakened by social problems. The rapid payment of budgetary and financial plans leaves the ideas of extensive consultation and transparency that would contribute to the need for compromise in difficult times. We have the obligation to make decisions in behalf of the long - term interests of the nation. This is not easy when you are not holding it, and the time for a discussion is short. President. It is important to make sure that many things are different today than they were in the early 1970's. The economy is more varied, the state - of - state position is better, a healthy arrangement in currency and economic management, and the export roads are more varied and varied. This, however, does not mean that the dangers are less. The new export products that have developed over the past few years in the shelter of the signaling post-mortem period are most likely more vulnerable to national economic policies than to export roads that marked Iceland in the 1970s. Iceland's Habitat Institute in Export includes the team's fishing roads, industrial industry, tourism, and so forth. In fact, seven of the eight previous quarters of the year have been the largest export of Iceland. But what else is this? Yes, it contains very many and varied items; agricultural products and moths; candy and scrap metals. However, the growth in these joints in recent years has come primarily from fish farming, or about a quarter, and since the export of specialised services, technology, intelligence and thoughtfulness, or 75% of these increases. This export has increased over the past few years, with an average of about 9% per year. New employment opportunities are being developed as ever as rapidly as possible. This growth has been greatest in the last three years, during the Covid period. This trend is very desirable for society. It increases stability and balances the fluctuations of remote export roads. She has a wide range of companies in all kinds of activities that sell all kinds of goods and services. This addition is therefore more likely to result in stability than articles such as, for example. Tourism service. It creates a variety of well - paying jobs for a variety of experts and talented people. It encourages further innovation and growth by deepening labour markets and promoting incentives to attract potential people to the country. This growth needs to be nurtured. This is especially true by responsible management. International competition is hard, but it is greatly appreciated by good ideas in the internationalized world. New creation companies, however, are more dependent on the quality and stability of their operations than most other companies. They do not use limited local resources. Decisions on the world's location are therefore more based on general business conditions than on other export companies. What a mistake it would be to put a rock into the street of these companies with a careless decision-making campaign on government business. We need to get up. President. Less than four decades ago, my father, also a new senator, stood in this public address. His message was very similar to mine: Let's take care of the responsibility we've sought for the nation's efforts, not avoiding difficult decisions, but taking the time to manage them. The decisions taken in this room have a broad impact in Icelandic society. The demand for financial support and the variation from the law on public finances are not to be followed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u31	President. It is not usually a matter of answering the first talk, but congratulations on the first talk here. But I guess this is a very important reminder and a vision that we receive into this situation, looking back at past events, economic events, learning from them, there is no crisis like that. The reminder of innovation as a solution, especially when the situation is changing. That is actually the basis for entire employment practices that, for example, all at once, will not be present with tourism, but also with such factors as. The creative branches, independent artists, need to find other ways to make good use of the intelligence and ability they have been taking advantage of so far. There's been some ideas about something like that. The number of road services and artistic events on bone flow has increased. There is the very possibility that you would think you should at least try to catch. But the first response to the epidemic was just a market campaign to get people here. That was no. 1st Second place was innovation. I would like to gain a little deeper insight into the circumstances of these people who have lost the basis for what they were working with and the possibility of innovation that we should give them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u32	Yeah, it's like this. When you do things for the first time, it's only natural for you to make a small mistake. But I appreciate it. A senator for the opportunity to give a reply here and get practice in it too, and for example. For waitin' before you step in a pillow. This morning, a talk was delivered before us. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson, who actually discussed the situation that we need to face, is that this epidemic is not a short - term phenomenon; it is not a battle that is going to be like the Spanish flu; it is a pandemic that is going to last. This calls for reviewing how he reacts. And exactly like what's happened. A senator may not be the ones we expected to be and who had become normal for a shorter epidemic, i.e. to help companies in the industry simply to dry out and to hope that their services and products demand will come back, but new options need to be sought. What is interesting, however, is that the driving driving drive remains stable regardless of what decisions are made in this room, at least in part. And just like a snooze. A senator pointed out that these opportunities simply arose. Smart people get good ideas and put them into action. He is correct in saying that in many ways it would have been most reasonable to be sure that this creative force exists and that we could activate it because it has shown itself to be more powerful and sustainable than the other solution proved to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u33	President. Exactly this: but it turned out to be. From the beginning of the epidemic, there was so much uncertainty, and the solution was to react equally. But that was a complete mistake because it meant that it was never seen two steps forward. If it wasn't just the first spring or the summer of the first wave, what would it be? If it got longer, what would it be? It wasn't ready. It was just to respond to the same reaction. And when they started to react, it was too late for that wave. We don't know if this is the last wave we're going to have when the music gets here. That would be as bad a guess as it was at the beginning of last year. But it is at the same time exactly the same good guess. It can be exactly like that; that we have only three months, six months left in this, and then it's just gone completely, disappearing as if it's never been here. We simply do not know, and it is uncertain that governments should eliminate by just actions or suggestions that actually appease those who are uncertain. If this does not work out, and if the epidemic does not go on, then no one is harmed by having at least had plans to do more and do better. But we are always in a position to look ahead for three months and then see what happens. There won't be a complete perspective, then we'll always be in the dark. I think that's one of the biggest lessons we can learn from this crisis; not plan too soon.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u34	Yeah, I'll take it from here. paritaprevir The son of Leví, Gunnarsson. As I stopped here, it was a reason. paritaprevir This is Jón Valdimarsson speaking up this morning. I'm sorry, but these budgets we're dealing with are burned to the point of being marked by the past, more than I think it is normal. To me, politicians do not create jobs, they may destroy them, but they hardly create them. It's the career that makes jobs. Our primary role is to provide basic employment conditions in order to create jobs, to achieve good ideas. And as a result, there are usually more efficient general measures than specific measures, so I take my brain under this indication.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u35	The President reminds us of what? Councilmen to address and direct their words to the president.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u36	A respectable president. In my first speech at the Council, I would like to encourage you. Councilmen to pause and consider whether we can show more respect for the taxpayers of this country. I'd like to bring you up to think about the terms of government and the high government expenses and the tax collections that take place in this country and are determined in this hall. I'd also like to share some of my experience with you after 40 years of employment. The first thing that comes to mind about the opinion of the budget bill is what governments have become complex and expensive. We have in our hands some 500 - page publications that describe a total of 2,000 billion dollars. Less than 1,000 billion inside and more than 1,000 billion out. The differences are simply borrowed by pressing a green button. It's 5.5 billion a day that goes in and out, just today. This comes with a lot of responsibility. I notice that in the 2022 budget, there is little discussion on the economy and simple state conflicts. There is nothing to discuss the reduction in the number of government institutions and the survival of government projects to private members is just not part of the program. With regard to the tax system, Iceland is already a major international tax country. We are the second most taxing people in OECD, so to speak, according to a recent report. Only Sweden is more taxing its citizens, and I suggest that we not win Sweden into that sport. The government tax returns about 33% of gross domestic product in 2018. Given the current pay rate, national product, it means that employees are actually working almost half a day just for taxes, six months, half their lives. Have we perhaps reached the tax - tax limit? However, I would like to point out that with taxes we are in general paying for the necessary services most people do not want to do without. But I'm willing to say that we can do much better with the public tax money, and we don't have to look for money for next year to see that there's enough money to be taken. The financier bill tells you that you should grow out of the problem with a strong commercial life, but as this increases government construction and the administrative cost continues to grow. The government has become self-sustained, and it was before the pandemic. Or it may be noted that the government recently received a financial review in connection with financial policy for the next five years. The government's failure to act against the problems we face is a major concern, and it is necessary to take action and save in government business and immediately. The debt rate of state funds is following familiar paths in the bill, and the State's interest rates have now become the fifth - largest - cost debt team in the state's budget. That's a lot of concern too. A respectable president. If the government was a company, Iceland ehf, it would be a constant search for management options, a unit of management units, a reduction in the construction of projects, ablation of projects. There is no charge on the government. To be reasonable, there are many practical suggestions in the digital solutions and services bill and should be welcomed. However, the government will continue to abide by more than 200 government agencies and public societies, hundreds of schemes and committees, and well over a third of the world's e - mail offices will function unchanged. A number of government companies will continue to compete with the private business, often with money from the financial fund. The Ministry continues to blow out, and as an example, this government established during the last term of 248 new committees, in addition to all active ones. The government has come far from responsible and reasonable government. In addition to the worst example the government can set, two schemes that cost about 300 million each year are added. This increase in recruitment has no purpose, seems to me, but to increase the number of advisers so that the ratios of power remain between the parties. What a waste of public tax money and disrespect for taxpayers. We need to remember that we are running a country smaller than any number of cities in Europe we know. I'm asking if there's a need for all this overwork and management costs for this small country. I believe 50 government agencies, not 200, not six embassys, not 26. And six departments would do this country for example. We members of the Parliament need to bear in mind that the main role of the government is to provide citizens of the country a better service and to improve the work programme of Icelandic enterprises, which is the basis for the improvement in terms of government funds of growing, investing, and creating new jobs. A respectable president. We can agree that all inhabitants of our country are to have access to the basic government services and that minimum lifestyle and security for all are guaranteed by public expenses. We agree on this. But the Kingdom has taken on a role that has advanced far beyond this basic service. The money of taxpayers goes on an assignment that the State should not be doing and that does not have to be done. There are many examples of this in the financial system. The rulers of the nation may have to be taught to say no to new expenses at times. It seems that it is too easy to convince the council of increased expenses. Here, we accept 1,000 billion tax returns by pressing a green button. I got it. I got it. Councilmen putting themselves in the footsteps of taxpayers more frequently before we agree to tax increases and increased expenses. Each time we accept new expenses, we need to ask ourselves: " Do I need them, or do I let them go? Homes in the country and every company ask this question every day. It is asked in English whether the expenses are, by permission of the president, ◯ice to have, or by the permission of the President, or by the proper means of having them, or by the request of the book How Would You Answer? The responsibility of the state is today. We show responsibility by being moderate in our expenses and by rolling each cent for us before being paid as tax and expenses for the people of the land. We will be in harbingering with this government, and necessary, thus showing full respect for the taxpayers in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u37	Madam President. I wish. paritaprevir Tómas Möller, congratulations on a gorgeous virgin talk. His words about a statekeeping are timeless and timeless when we are in such a crisis as they do testify, as is often said, to unprecedented circumstances. I trust he will join with all the senators in this council, especially when it comes to restoration.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u38	President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jakob Frímann Magnússon for his encouragement. I will not leave my part in this and wish that the government and the administrative sector work better and more often together to make progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u39	Borist has received a letter from the Deputy Directorate of the Independence Party, Vilhjálmur the Year's Árnason, for Bearing the Birgir's Ármannsson, 9th. Smoke. As well as the President of the Generals, cannot attend next week. Today, then, at the General Assembly 1, a deputy of the Independence Party lists the district, the Friðjón of R. Friðjónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u40	The Friðjón Son R. Friðjónsson has already been investigated and approved, but he has not previously taken his place in the General Assembly, thus signing his pledge to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u41	The Friðjón of R. son of Friðjónsson has signed a solemn pledge to the Constitution and is welcomed to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u42	Madam President. We'll discuss budgets with the 2nd. There's a lot of things going on, so I'm not going to extend this discussion very much, but I'd like to mention a few things. First, I would like to mention what may be one of the main achievements of the Government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, who is united with the conflicting government opposition, so that there has been an almost unprecedented change to the bill from representatives of the four panels to a financial committee, ten joints of the changes that these four categories agree to make in order to see progress. The government situation was often in its neck during the last terms of dissatisfaction, but it shows that, as we have experienced on the part of the government, there are some things we can get together. I may agree on some suggestions below, but I'd like to start with the subject of the bill itself. First, I'd like to mention something that we had only discussed. ...,theprivatetone here and there on the bill and is here and there in the government's work. We know how a private area of the road system is being handled by personal action. When a transport work bill was passed through the council, it was referred to a temple march as the model to be seen. But in this financial bill, it is just showing that the model simply doesn't work. A temple tunnel did not succeed in reimbursement, so the government has to run for a bag. So I would have thought that perhaps there would be grounds for further umbilization on whether this model will cross its heads, and I think that we on an environmental and transport committee will look at it after a year's time. At any rate, I'm going to go for it. But then, naturally, as we have often discussed, a major privatization of plans for the share of the state in financial companies, as occurred with Iceland banking, where a thing was sold at the great price that people who were allowed to participate in that stock supply could provide quite a little profit in the pocket in a very short time. But what I might prefer to mention in this context is 6. budgets, on sale of housing. You see, it has been the burden of people who come to the public because of a certain ideologies that the public is not to have anything, but to buy services and rent facilities and to be little more than some relief program at the expense of the public. What follows is often that the government and the government pay the service a higher price than if it was held in a house. However, this also causes less structure to develop on the grounds of the public; there may be contractors in charge of more than the State where public service takes place. You can see a little thought as to how extensive sources are for selling property in the budget bill, Article 6. It, and also in which areas these assets are. So I'll name a few examples, and I'll give you a warrant for selling property with Guðrunun and the Citytun, where the road had residence, and that's right by, on a Red Sea path and Road, 1143/4,116, where--no, I don't quite remember what was there. And in the same area, the police station at Holfisway 113-115. It's all a home that doesn't play the role it once played, it's totally normal to transport the main operation center of the Vega project into a larger area, and the police have to be placed in modern housing with other members of the European Commission. However, it is only natural for the state to sell out all these possessions rather than perhaps look to the possibility of being able to shape some kind of planning for public service, a policy of the State trying, e.g. having a home in the middle of the city and in most places so that people can go to more places to serve, rather than have to travel long distances to attend the services they personally need to attend? In addition, these fields are very exciting areas. These are often structures near specific knots in the construction of the city line, all areas where the future of the capital area will be developed. This is the area where everything will change most in the coming years and decades, people are growing, and their work becomes more varied. So I feel that it is a bit shortsighted in the government to sell these assets away without further checking what could be done with these areas. Because it is a political decision, e.g. heaping up all the services of the businessman in the capital area above a small spring so that the best way to attend that service is to drive, rather than perhaps to install the local government facilities and where throughout the city so that people can walk there. There is also another authority assigned to the sale at the vicinity of the Assembly Hall, on the other side of the East Coast, and to host the Vienna Camp in East Street. It came as a surprise to me that the Vienna Camp in East Street was in a place owned by the State. But the plan would be to move the work from that facility to some rented house in the middle of the city area. So when it became evident that a rented house would be considered mainly by the premonition carried out by the Camp of Vienna, it was either out on the Granda or out in the church, in fact, also in the Halling Path. I was surprised to learn that the Camp of Vienna is considering taking a job in downtown Reykjavík, where a higher percentage of residents than anywhere else in the city prefers not to use a private car every day - not to interfere with public service by selling down the store owned by the government in the best place to rent in the long term, probably at some worse elected place somewhere far away. I may also mention the strange promise that even though it has been reported in the financial bill itself, there is a possibility that the work of Iceland's National Institute of Art. Of course, the art school is a self - interest institution because pure religion of right men who conducted governments at the time of the institution of the school would not allow any more public schools to be formed. As a result, we are faced with the fact that we are probably the only State in our part of the world that does not offer public - based art courses but only at a school that has to be paid considerably higher than normal in the public system. Then if the list University's fail-dose management funds are to be paid rent to any person in the state who is going to sell the toll house, I think this animal's gonna get worse by the minute it gets worse. Here I think it's only natural that the majority of the things in my belly are not selling the customs house, if the idea is to introduce the Art University there, and to complete the natural step, and to take the Art University into custody and make it one of our public colleges, as it were naturally meant to be from the beginning. But this, just so I'm holding my arm around this point, is about it rather than selling away desirable property at the best place in town, or many of the best places in town, there's every reason for the state to take a stand against its property policy, which takes into account how the government's ownership and use of the state of property can support a sustainable urban organization. It's not now. But now it is an opportunity to do this before the government sells it just to organize all public services on the edge of the city because some contractor has decided to offer the State a 50 - year contract where the leaks of money can be done for a long time. Speaking of sustainable planning, I'm going to have to tell you how hard it works, which is suggested to add support to public transport in the bill. While pure religion in a right approach to government, it says that depositing money in services is something more than in investments in concrete and possessions, there is probably no other way to say that an investment in public transport is probably the best green investment you could make today. Today, about one third of Iceland's community discharges, which is said to be one third of the emissions falling outside of the EU's emissions and other than land use emissions, are due to road transport. This is the amount of disposal that we have to drive very quickly if we are to reach the 2030 Paris Treaty's targets, because, perhaps, it is time to review, Madam President, only next week will be in 2022, and then there are only eight years to 2030. During those eight years, we would be more likely to have practically rid ourselves of greenhouse gas emissions from roadways. We don't do that by suggesting 150 million. K. into public transportation, but some of the money that's much, much higher. There are also amounts of money that return directly to a better community. They'll increase bus service. The urban structure can then be accelerated. This will make it easier for people to give up the huge expenses involved in having a car. In this way, the need for transport workers to build up for their private vehicle can be reduced by reducing the environmental impact in close proximity to these vehicles, such as. noise pollution and particulate pollution, which are not to the same extent of public transportation. Of course, 150 million are steps in the right direction, so to be positive, but that's just an amazing little step. This may be the point that I would like to mention in terms of the scope of action to deal with the climate crisis in this financial bill and in the government financial programme, which is clearly said to be too little. I'm going to draw out a good report by young environmentalists, who say the same thing that they've said so many times before. They point out that if you consider what is needed to finance global climate change measures, if you consider a United Nations report on global warming limitation at 1.5°, then the world has to provide 6% of - GDP globally called global production. At least 6% of the number corresponding to the GDP of all countries. But Iceland has an advantage because a large part of this 6% has already been worked here on land because we have a geothermal to warm up our houses and we have renewable energy that produces electricity in our houses. These are the challenges we faced during the last century, which in this century many kingdoms of the world have to face. Because we have this advantage, we can say that this 6% falls to 4% of GDP relative to Iceland's facility. It may be appropriate to ask ourselves, " Who should make that effort? ' You could tip on something like that. that the state took half of this, taking 2% of land production, and lying in climates, the other 2% being the common burden of rural society and employment. Suppose, for example, that this standard of the United Nations was recorded at 2% of the government's gross domestic product that should be proposed. The amount on this budget bill is 13 billion. That's half a percent of national production. So if we were to do well that we were only in harmony with what the United Nations thinks the world needs to do, we would have to make four times as much money. It would have to be, not 13 billion, but something between 50 and 60 billion a year. That sounds like a huge amount, and of course it is. But it's an investment. Just as the investment in public transportation results in a better community, every dollar in supporting society's green and righteous exchanges comes in a better community, not just for future generations, and not just in 2030 when it comes to the production of the Paris Convention, but right now. There are so many things that will be right now. And not even all this amount is needed to be clean expenses from the State. I'd like to mention, for example, the use of clean cars. The decline in vehicle costs is half of what is proposed to climate today. This is an enormously expensive part of what the state is doing in climates, and that's only half of it or about half of it, which runs to real clean energy cars, electric and hydrogen cars. The rest of the rest goes largely into linking trucks, which, for one thing, run part for electricity but also part for gasoline. Then there's some of the stuff that runs into fuel trucks and diesel trucks that they buy because rather than telling the job life that they're supposed to carry 2% of them while the state carries 2% itself, the General decided to run under a load of rental cars and say, "We're willing to subsidize your gas cars if you promise to buy just a little green cars that we're also going to dig down." So when such a system should, of course, be built up as a balance system, where there would be an increased penalty for pollution, the State has created a highly inexhaustible and expensive subsidies. It would be possible to speed it up, for people do not see the benefits of buying fossil fuel cars by increasing the budgets on those cars and using the income that the government has by supporting people in investing in sustainable transport. And not just the electrical vehicles that are, despite much subsidies, very expensive and only suitable for certain social groups, but they use them to build public transportation or to support people buying electrical riding wheels, as there is probably no quick investment campaign that could bring more and faster contractions from transport than the fast - approaching electrically populated cities. It's a thought that is generally lacking in terms of reimbursement of the government, as we discussed earlier in the discussion. The rate of increase in carbon pay determined by the government of 2017 was lost. To disappear from that increase was one of the first acts of the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. And since then the ideologies behind a carbon charge have been completely replaced. Today, carbon costs are by no means as high as they would have to be to reflect the real cost of fossil fuels, community costs, and the environment. At least three times or four times that one would likely reflect that cost. However, there is a change that cannot be made with a single pen mark and thrown out in society because we do not support the righteous transformations that must take place. The carbon price needs to be raised, but the public should see that it gives something to them. This enables us to establish a solid basis for this procedure. If I quote from Land Protection, it contributes to such an increase in paces but also encourages the use of the cost, for example. to ensure that subsidies do not carry an abnormally heavy load of high carbon taxation by initiating some kind of income-based recovery system and that carbon costs on certain sectors could be partly used to strengthen leading enterprises in these fields to implement climate - related technologies. It's kind of amazing that we're not even further in this because it's just like the international institutions, like the World Bank and OECD, that we're measuring a carbon as some of the most efficient tools in the struggle against the climate, focusing on; keeping the balance between these things, that these are useful to the public, that they're not a stock for the State, not another way for the state to earn money, but a certain way for the state to transfer money to people and companies according to the pollution policy, over people and companies who need to help take the green steps. There are plenty of examples. But I just want to mention one example, because I loved it so much, from our neighbors in Ireland. It is the carbon bill, so it just goes into a pot, and half of that pot goes back out to improve the living house repairs, to change the sexual stores so that they stop burning gas and going to electricity, and to replace simple glass, improve the isolation of roofs and walls, making all the improvements in the housing needed to stop being negative from the climate. This will not only reduce greenhouse gas emissions because of this housing but also make it a better home for the people who live in it. It'll be more valuable. So the improvement, as in all these measures, is not just about some figure of carbon dioxide, but about the quality of life of people living in these buildings. So half are going to make these improvements to the Irish residence. A third goes on social transfers, only to support earners, support children of a number of families, support all kinds of people who need additional support beyond what the social security system offers. The key to this Irish system is, of course, that there's also a lot of income linked to it and so, so, we just make a little unfair but clear image, income shark, the people who can afford to buy animals, contaminated cars just have to pay extra for it. But that coin is taken and brought down to the people's low income in order to improve their circumstances. This is something that could have been considered during the last term if the government hadn't decided that the only thing she was going to do about carbon charge would be to cancel the rise that the last government had determined, just take one net rise at the beginning of the terms of the term, and then no more. It was no longer to be touched. The problem is that from the time the government has submitted updated targets to the United Nations Climate Convention, from 40% to 55% to its common goal with the European Union and Norway, and now announced in the Treaty at the beginning of this term that this 55% aim will not be combined with the EU but, rather, Iceland's own national objective, as we now fought a few in the last winter and went so far as to establish a legal adjustment made by the government in June. But it's always good that people see each other's faces. These increasing goals mean that more is needed. And things need to be touched, such as reevaluating carbon charge, reevaluating the costs of vehicles so that the economic motivations serve much more fully the green turns. To that end, governments must stop being so shy about touching both sides. Bonus-malus is sometimes called a whip and a yellow root would spread in Icelandic. We can't just have the carrots on the green business, but we can't stop wearing the whip on them. I'm afraid that's the situation today. I don't think I'm going to be taking so much time to talk about it, but that's just how you get in, Madam President. I'd like to mention the changes I mentioned at the beginning of the speech, the joint adjustments made by the representatives of Porita, the Conspiracies, and the group's members in a budget of ten teams, which, as I said earlier, are a very significant document for these reasons that it is not necessarily a financial debate that the government's opposition groups are united in these ways of changing proposals. However, this may show that the faults of the budget bill are so clear that these four groups find very easy to find major, simple changes that must be made on the bill in order to serve the community better. In fact, these suggestions are so responsible that they are financed, so these are not just budgets, but proposals are made to change the government's income to settle this. Even so, they are modest enough to fit within the budget that can be used in the budget. I'd like to mention one particular suggestion, because we talked only about it here yesterday -- Well, or tonight, it's been past midnight there, so it was the night of the day we live. It is the proposal of the government to spend 900 million in order to fund subsidies for psychological services, to finance something that the Allied Council approved by law. It's so strange, Madam President, that in June of last year, one and a half years ago, the General agreed that I didn't have to go into the same subsidies as physical therapy had done a year before, just because it's fair, because there's a need for this service, and it's something people shouldn't have to mean. This is always fair, but this may only be vital now, when the spiritual effects of the Covid epidemic and all the measures taken to curb the spread of Covid, the mental effects, begin to be observed in people's homes, they don't need to stay away from help just because there's an incredible long waiting list on the clinic or that the person doesn't have 20,000 calls to go to psychologists. That is why the smaller portion suggested a total of 900 million. K. into this team, 900 million. K. to uphold a law adopted by the General Assembly, because only after the People's Council approved these laws appeared to a minister of finance in a press office, where he pointed out that this was all too expensive, and then brought back his next budget, and it was still enormous. And then the law of the law came now, and then it's still a fortune. So when we agreed to subsidies on the psychological costs, the officials who went all out on their backs for such a great deal of mental health have continued to show quite a different way of life. This proposal of the memory of the part, which was one of the figures at the council concluded yesterday, led to the development of a financial minister's coming here gray for irons, a totally corrosive algorithm over the fact that the government's stand dared put this contribution first at the end of Congress agreements, to achieve the fact that the Allied Council is fulfilling the promises and benefits of a psychological service. It will never be accepted. The minister here said in a speech chair, full of humanity. Madam President. That's why it's fun to be able to hold it here. 240, just out of print, from the financial committee of all who have agreed to do this, of course not all the sum, did not make full financial contributions, but made confessions with the now amount of 150 million. K. a contribution to finance psychiatric subsidies. We must rejoice in that triumph of a united government opposition against the unfair and unfair minister of finance of yesterday.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u43	President. It is a true privilege for me to stand here today and participate in discussions about the budget. This is a fundamental part of government management and the building of the infrastructure and services to which the people of the land trust. As it happens, however, this day is not just remarkable for me to give a talk for the first time. He's also remarkable for the fact that my company is all appointed replacements. Unpredictable is a word that has been widely used since the pandemic, and I think this situation is truly unprecedented. Now I came in with full anticipation to handle this huge project, to get a quick tour of the situation in the various committees, to run through the way I should behave, and to try to study the budget and other major issues in a very short period of time. I readily admit that there was a slight stress in this situation, and I am confident that I will make some mistake. Perhaps I will address a respectable president in a wrong way or another. Senators or even something else. You see, in most cases when you have to do things fast, they are not as well done as you would like. But that's exactly what I think is the tone that has been appointed for this council. It took a long time to put together a government, to put money late forward, and other important matters to be handled at an alarming rate. As noted in talks here yesterday, this is a government problem of its own. If I go back a few days, I was on Thursday night with my childhood friends in a sewing club. There we discussed the new work of one of the group and how often it is difficult to be the new employee. The group agreed, however, that the majority of new employees could be very valuable because they come in and look at things with new eyes. Little did I realize that within 24 hours, I would be at my place of being the new employee. But since it is, I'm going to allow myself to watch the work here with the eyes of the new employee. I was so scared to watch 2nd. Funds start without any Minister being present, and in fact, it was hardly visible to a senator from a board of directors in the hall. After the vote on the matter ahead, I watched the council members say goodbye with the words: See you tomorrow. There seemed no interest in any conversation about the country's most important laws at the council Hall. The speed, the hours of work, the power pride shown in conversation yesterday is not to be imitated, and I believe the council needs to be more effective. The first part of that would be to form a law-to-keep elections in the spring. Thus, there could be adequate room for the formation and handling of financial laws. In fact, the government in hand had to announce election elections in the spring, as have all previous governments, who have served a full term after a sudden fall election. Then it would be no worse to see the majority of them show respect for the work and authority of the members of the smaller section. It's a little interesting to read the budget at this point. It's not long since the bill was submitted, but it was the pandemic where we wrestled with everything else. Today, there are, in fact, circumstances quite different from those of those who lived a long time ago. So the optimism of the law stands a little inconsistencies. It is a question of whether there is a basis for settling over the situation that the nation now faces and reevaluating what awaits us. But since I'm stopping here only for a few days, anyway, I want to take advantage of this opportunity and discuss a few issues in particular. First, I would like to encourage the government to fulfill their own promises that they have already made. NPA deals are legal, but have not been fully financed. While this is the case, it is not possible to perform this vital service. The same is true of psychological services. Its payment was legal, but it has not yet been financed. Now is the time to correct matters. How good it is to be able to conduct a government contract with beautiful words, even to get approved in the General Laws that are agreed on by people but not to finance them! This is a big issue for the future. People's spiritual health should be just as serious as physical health, and they will pay much back to handle these matters firmly. Before the pandemic, one third of the people felt that they could not afford to get mental - health care. The percentage is still higher among students and high - income groups. There's no chance it got better in the last two years. Next, I'd like to be Congressman of the Southwestern district to discuss the funding of our transportation. It is vital that transport in the capital area be the future. We must have the courage to take drastic steps to make public transportation a practical option. As is usually true of the subsidies, there is a much more expensive delay in society than in construction. Governments are obliged to take care of them in order to contribute here to continued employment and value development. Thus, all of us have the courage to deal with expensive transport benefits, such as the Sunway, and thus allow our own initiative to take part. From the financial bill it can be concluded that this project will not be carried out without the availability of its own initiative. As Mos gangs, I can tell you that this project is absolutely necessary to ensure a safe flow in and out of the capital area, especially if there is a planned transfer of waste to incineration in Elfs, which is something that might be considered more closely in the vicinity of the population. In the end, I'd like to talk about education. The global epidemic has set up the school system in a place we thought would not be reached until some time later. Having been squeezed into technology was a challenge, and school teachers and staff were honored by the fact that they had spent almost two years in a curved school and turned into the most incredible direction. Now let's use this opportunity to support this trend. Let us give up this incredible lack of monopoly on study production and ensure that the future will be guaranteed to all of us for our good in school work. Whether the school language splits between hallmarks must be revealed. In all respects, parishion tools are available. The government can accept budgets that provide increased prosperity, favour, and modern transport and the necessary basic services. This takes only the will and solidarity of 32 members of Parliament. The rookie's eyes tell me it's possible. What's up?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u44	President. I want to start by challenging the highest. Health Minister to immediately resolve the knot on the plans for the construction of a new nursing home on the Cape of the Hornfjord if the highest. Minister hasn't already done that. A park is a long out - of - date building, and we simply cannot invite our people to wait longer for decent places to live. I am the first in the hearing at the General Assembly and we will discuss the budget of 2022, a law that sheds light on the policy and priorities of the government. There's a lot I'd like to talk about and of a lot to take, but I'm going to keep mostly on climate issues, especially on the part of the protection, recovery and sustainable use of ecosystems in the country. The climate is not merely debet/kreit-book of emissions reduction and increased binding, as many would like to think. It is a complex system of earth's cycles, first and last to restore the carbon cycle. This we do by reviewing all of our human systems, whether social, environmental, or economic systems with the aim of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and increasing binding while reducing pressures on natural resources, stopping overuse and protecting nature, Mother Earth. I could talk about the condition of the Icelandic ecosystems, which is still, despite centuries of tireless work, bad because the challenge is so big. Tens of thousands of square miles of land have lost soil and vegetation over the centuries, and there are over 50% of the ecosystem. We have an enormous amount of material to do. I could talk about the fact that the international community over the last few years has quickly opened its eyes to the importance of protecting and restoring earth's ecosystems and their biodiversity as a climate and nature protection operation and how it will take place in the future government policy barriers around the world following the epidemic. Or about a decade in the United Nations on recovery of ecosystems to 2030 and how both urban and rural areas of the world are heading for protection and recovery of diverse and effective ecosystems, including to increase the binding of carbon dioxide and reduce the impacts of climate change by protecting biodiversity and improving overall living conditions. In order to create an increased risk of floods, droughts, and other natural hazards, the work of nature and its own solutions is emphasized. These solutions are called natural solutions, and it is good to report that Iceland has used this method for years, including some of them. to build the collapses of ecosystems in order to improve their persistence and improve their ability to reduce the impact of natural tears, such as eruptions. An example of this is the Heklu Forest project, which is about to increase the spread of birch forest in the near environment of Heclu. Another example is a project in preparation for the impact area of the Skaft River. It aims to increase the spread of birch forests and boughs in order to reduce the growth of marshes or clay in the wake of the Roft River. In such a way, Thompans call it a fine chemical that mars all over the world. I could also discuss how much this government's emphasis on protection and recovery of ecosystems as a powerful climate and nature protection operation during the last term and how oddly it would appear to the layman that the same government has now decided to bring the two institutions that are responsible for this vastly important task force from the multi-disciplinary Ministry of the Environment over to the Aggression Ministry. The last time I knew it, agri-environmental services were restricted, not the general environment and nature protection of rural areas and urban areas, such as protection and recovery of ecosystems. In fact, I could also talk about how happy I am that the interests offoresting and the subterfugeal management are moving from the Environmental and Resource Ministry to the Aggression Ministry. Well, it's definitely a agricultural business. I trust the highest, too. Agrienvironment schemes are well developed to solve existing projects, such as the rest of the Commission on sustainable land use. It is high time for land use to be guided by the same criteria directed by fish fishing, i.e. Based on the state of the resource, which in this case is the vegetation, not the new form. But what remains close to my heart is how governments define the policies of climate-related policies related to the protection, recovery and use of the ecosystems in the country, their ambitions, whether they are specific, measurable, limited and practical, whether they are woven into all policies and links, and whether they are financed. So I'd rather discuss these matters and start by backing them up in time. Iceland, such as Norway, decided to wish for the European Union to share in the European Union's joint aim for a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions within the Paris Convention in 2015. Otherwise, we would have to send in an independent commitment objective according to the Paris Treaty for a recession during the 20213/4030 period, which will take into account all emissions, including the major industry. It would have been a big, hard bite in Iceland's throat. In turn, little Iceland continued with its independent climate policy activities despite the fact that the decision to participate in the joint aim of the EU and Norway required us to implement a new EU strategy and to implement a so-called climate change team, according to the LULUCF. Actually, I'm not going to do any more about it here, but it affects all our work, of course, that we are only involved in the decision to be involved, not in building up the way we are going to do it, so we do not participate in the EU policy and policy agendas. It's very pathetic. Since the time we have a strong climate resistance problem is short, it was a real disappointment for me when this government took over the last year of 2017, who said it was the first term and decided to put them out of action on climate issues that were available when the government took over. I would never have believed that the inexperienced ones on the left green would not use the cool work that had been put in blood, sweat, and tears throughout 2017, but instead, they go back to the same job and thus lose a whole year. But I guess there's no other friend in politics. The government has often said that during the last terms, they have provided the first funding of a climate - related operation program. Still, it does not indicate how well the plan will handle the challenges ahead. Clearly, the real need for ecosystems recovery is so much higher than in the schedule. So, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well. For example, there is goals for the recovery of wetlands. It is reported that there are some 2,600 miles [2,600 km] of the most advanced wetlands we need to evaluate and consider whether or not we can recover. You can't take it all. We're totally aware of that. I'm not saying that this number is what you can get back right here and now. Yet, these are 2,660 acres [2,60 ha] of the most advanced wetlands we need to examine. This country is not in agricultural use. Nevertheless, the objective of a climate - related operation program is that from the next year, 500 acres [500 ha] will be restored annually. Everyone sees that the need is far greater. It's also true of the dry land care systems. I'm just not going into it right now. Adding is far too far. If there is a will, the government might decide to follow in the footsteps of the Scottish government, such as the government. and set as ambitious goals as the Scotsmen do in the field of wetland recovery. In such cases, health - care governments plan to recover 250,000 acres [50,000 ha] of water or moatlands in their case, from 2022 to 2025 acres [202 to 2025 ha] a year. In this project, they have marked, only this project, I want to make it very clear, according to my best knowledge of 250 million pounds. I'll tell you, if Scots can do it, we can do it at least half that way. The financial law is a means by which, not just for the government, but for the protection of the environment of the public and the businesses of the country. Sadly, the government has handled climate as if it were her personal affairs, but it divides all of us, and all of us need to be involved in changes if they are to have a real effect. The restoration has suggested that carbon charges increase, and other charges are reduced, that those who pollute the city, and that those who reduce its emissions benefit from it. I wish that future vision would appear in the government's financial laws, but it will not. President. One thing is more important than another. It is that there will be good living conditions for the future. Its premise is that we are a sustainable society that is at peace with nature, with mother Earth, that future generations enjoy the same quality and resources that we do today. In order for this to happen, a quick reversal and a new constitution will be required. The government's responsibility is great, and I only wish it to be subject to that responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u45	Madam President. I thank you for this passage by the dog. Senator. There are some things you could discuss there. Perhaps I'd like to start off with this united Iceland with the European Union in climate -- which I think was a very wise step in the course of time, I don't think the government or the council would have had the drive to put the big, industrial chair in front of the door without - if we don't have to go to work as a small part of the government's climate policy. This partnership has somehow been the main part, but we need, for example. reviewing the following years how we can get the big business to reduce emissions more quickly. The European Union's trade system may not be enough, so we need to consider whether additional carbon expenditures are needed to promote evolution there but also that we are not accepting the lowest common products between the ambitions of European countries and the coal addicts, i.e. That we're going as far as Iceland can, but not as far as the Brussels compromise goes. Then the senator touched on something that has just bothered me a little bit, this cold feeling that it has been submitted to the first comprehensive plan of some of Iceland's governments on climate change. But goals simply do not control the problem, so far from it. They do not even grasp the recession that is said to include the plan. But the contraction is only 35%, which is far too small to what science calls for us to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u46	Thank you. A senator for the record. I wholeheartedly agree, of course we should do much better. We can do much better. But what I was talking about in this context, about the European Union and what is happening there, away from the European Union as some unit, is that there is a large bond that has the ability to shape a powerful policy, the umbrella of this so-called green community contract. Under it is the agricultural policy, which is the strengthening system for agriculture in the European Union. It is a food policy. It is a policy of biodiversity. These are three key features of this green community contract to achieve success in all these sectors but always first and last with the natural needs in mind. It's so important. We're making plans here. For the last two years, I'll say it for the government's credit, has happened a lot in creating a frame, but they're just not connected. We've made a land healing program at one corner, a forest plan at another corner, though in the same Ministry. We've made an appendix to national planning in the same Ministry, but also inaccessible. We've made food policy unrelated to the other programmes, and we've made agrienvironmental policy unrelated to the other programmes as well. This damages our ability to achieve results more quickly. That hurts.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u47	Madam President. It would be possible to keep this list of non-interchangeable plans to go on indefinitely. Also, in recent years we have often adopted a transport program in which the impact on climate is not assessed, although it is likely to be the government's most impact on long-term climate. And talking about plans in the same Ministry that doesn't apply to each other. We also have plans for the same points in different forms of advice not to be called on. Because the Senator was talking about protection and recovery of ecosystems, I recall that in the section of a marine economist in a financial program perhaps two years ago, wetlands with goals other than the government strategy. You would've thought people would have talked something about these matters. Hv. The speaker took note of the importance of meeting the goals, such as these plans, and not only that, but also that they were measurable and financed so that people can see that the funds are enough to reach their goals. Then I'd like to ask myself, " Do I see in the budget some step in that direction? ' The budget for climate and climate resources is e.g. to draw together. I would have said, so that the public and we who shape policy would know what was going on in our goals, that it would have to, for example, be. A highly powerful and critical climatic Council builds experts who could omit everything. But that will not happen in these words.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u48	President. I'll be back with what. A senator, who has done many good things, can do so much better. That is what we have also talked about, and others, of course, need to be integrated in all government work. Environmental issues need to be interwoven, and they must always be placed in the same places as economics, since they are likely the most important economic issue we face in our modern world. Hv. A senator also talked about policy and other things and I would have liked to see - these are the three pillars, the sustainable rights, the world goals, etc. All financial and financial activities should be evaluated according to this: Is it environmentally practical? Is it economic cost? And do they yield social benefits?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u49	A respectable president. It is a true privilege to appear here in the chair of the High Generals, and I am truly grateful to be here to address the council and, hopefully, the whole nation. This is a chance I can't let go, and I don't want to let go that I have a business with all of you, my fellow Americans. Funds are being discussed, and this has been shown in the debates that there has been a large exchange of government funds between the year and the year, and official support has increased. Funds are being approved, and economic growth is likely to be impaired. The problem is that various jobs are in trouble, and this contributes to inflation and various problems. I can agree with that. paritaprevir Thomas Möller said earlier today, that economics are now important as in other times. And speaking of the senators, it was. Einarsson So early, the flame was so much so that the budget bill was actually a metaphor for what he called a response case. I thought that part was nice by a dog. A senator even though I myself would not offer the same ways that that that good man did. The General Assembly is the key agency of the Republic, and this is not to be a response issue but to watch out for the field view, on the public and on the long-term prowess. However, the danger at such times as we do today is that the principles of the government's directive to regulate government authority may be disfellowshipped from principles, core guidelines for the extent of State success, and possibly ousted from some guidelines on what is considered to be an acceptable compromise. But all of this is done in the absence of the unknown virus, which produces many kinds of fear. I have asked myself, and I would like to direct this question to you who listen: Is the danger we face so far justified in pushing aside traditional standards? It goes so far as to set aside the criteria we have proposed, i.e. about a state of justice, about civil liberty, or about democracy? Are these principles of the administration supposed to be in an upset state? Is the danger we face so grave that it is justified in disrupting the full balance of power between legislation, execution, and judicial authority? I noticed in court releases just moments ago, where the viewpoint was tested as to whether the disease was diseased and this included discrimination from a political rule, that courts provided it with the statement that it was acceptable at the time of our living to confess to governments a state of freedom. I was filled, I must admit, a certain fear, speaking of fear, but my fear bowed down to whether this principle of government modulation was being jeopardized, for it is certainly one of the main roles of the judiciary to provide the Commission and the legislation. Is it acceptable to deal with issues involving an order of equal interest, saying that the government should have an abundance of space? Is there such a danger that you can use a disease control law to reduce the overall rights of the citizens? Is the danger we face in such a way that it is justified to govern the country with rules not to be signed by democratic debates? I've asked, and I'm most serious about the question, if it could be that it's coming up here with some kind of new government and that the public, and possibly a body of Congress, didn't realize what's going on. In this regard, this must be true and must not be avoided. I'll mention it here because it's worth reminding you that in 1 st. The republic's constitutions, these are the opening words of our Constitution, that Iceland is a republic with a conniving government. It doesn't say: Iceland is a republic with a government council. So the best defense, obviously, against any kind of government abuse is a political government. This also includes, and we can see, that our constitution has no general authority to declare a state of emergency. I'd like to underline this: The best defense, the best public defense against any kind of emergency is a contingency, i.e. Governments and executives who are influenced by the Generals and later by the courts. In this, it will be reflected again that democracy and justice are the most important defense of civil liberty and human rights at this time as well as of others. Why am I talking democracy? This is because all authority really comes from the nation. What gives democratically elected governments, such as the Council, legalistically represent the people who are present here for their power to the nation. Notice, this is what makes democratic government legitimate. Where, then, do oppressors go for their rights? Where have totalitarian governments and former tyrants come from? It is to answer, or this is my answer, that the legitimate in such cases is so efficient that it is so rapid that it is so rapid that it is able to interpret the will of the common people and be able to protect the interests of the common people so well. The situation here in Iceland now for almost two years is designed to numb the line in the minds of the common people and possibly in the minds of members of the council between what we can call legitimate democratic government on the other hand and what I call oppressive government. On the one hand, we are faced with violence, which manifests us in the form of a government that is centrally powered, efficiency, and speed, and, however, we are talking about the state of justice, where the government is convened, where the Council is central, in which we live according to general law, etc. The problem, as I see him, and I want to mention it here, is that I'm afraid that the courts are being undermined gradually - paying attention, you who listen - are being strengthened by the state of justice. In pragmatic terms, we are faced with the fact that large amounts of funds are being given with reference to a crisis or emergency. This was understandable at the beginning of the crowning virus epidemic, but I allow myself to doubt that it is understandable and justified at the time it has arrived. I mention this because according to general government and government laws it is not accepted that a crisis can be spoken of if rulers themselves control the situation that causes distress. Note carefully: The seeds do not recognize that an emergency can be spoken of if the rulers themselves control the situation that causes it. What do I mean by that? I mean, it's been referred to here repeatedly that all we can do is narrow down and put more emphasis on civil liberty in this country because the hospitals are out of control. It is referred to as a lack of space at the Land Hospital, but when the window is passed, it turns out that in recent years the number of people in Icelandic clinics has declined. Thus I saw a decrease from 1,283 in 2007 to 1,009 in 2020. Clearly, this is something that the European government has full authority to correct. So I've called it a home-made dissector, and I've said that on such a foundation it's not legitimate and it's not legitimate to get people into some sort of death. Then it is the duty of the government, the duty of the council, to step in, to focus on measures, to increase health - care costs, to increase beds, and to do everything in the authority of the government, and to the point that there is room to escape the seas of the Icelandic nation. Then I'm referring to children and young people and to all who want and can do their jobs and participate in a free society. A respectable president. I want to, now that I draw this up, use this opportunity to remind the audience that the state of justice, just so that it shows up here in this hall, means that the State is bound by rules and is to be kept in a corresponding measure. This vision of the state of justice means that the cities are protected from the unjust use of the State. It is an ideal that has lived with mankind for centuries, and we know that this was a sacred issue, such as the Bible. in the time of the monarchy. This means that if civil freedom is impaired, it will only be done under strict rules and conditions. The crown virus certainly reveals weakness here and elsewhere. There are a number of people who have been deprived of their jobs and standards, countless people who have lost freedom of movement and meeting freedom, and children have almost been taken away from the right to school. The situation is certainly worse in many parts of the world and in continental Europe, but this alone does not justify the marvelous intervention by governments in the daily lives of the citizens of this city. From traditional criteria I was referring to earlier, the role of the Generalis, i.e. on how to handle the situation and how to monitor it, we have to drag the Generals into this scene, and we'll reassign it in all of this discussion. We are not to allow the reference to a crisis to be cut out by the General Assembly, the democracy to function, and some kind of decree government brought in here on the land. I hope, in time, we will be able to say that we have managed to defend the state of justice here. I believe that we Icelanders are in a dead position to do so, that in our small kingdom, our good officials, our health professionals, and our good officials, we are able to master the challenge and free us from the bondage that has taken us for two years now. I urge you, fine Americans and fine senators, to maintain here in the form of questions and legitimate civil resistance. I urge you to have questions. I call upon the management board, experts and the government to answer questions that depend on the basis of these actions. I urge you, fine Americans, to resist the intensification of experts in increasing authority over power. I urge you to defend the General and stand by the fact that all of this is valid by the Council. Because we're discussing the budget, someday I was on the Spanish beach and took what was next to me to read. It was a German newspaper, and it was discussing in German that Germany was what they called the Zahlmeister under Prüegelknabe, i.e. both the man who shovels money out of the box, and it can be said that the Allied is put in that position, but also a Mr. Prügelnknabe, because at the time of the German Shepherd, it was a special job to spank the prince each time he did something wrong. The general body should not be in the position to offer a thorn if problems arise because the experts and management have overstepped. The General is responsible for a tremendous amount of democratic and political responsibility, and we must activate it. We are faced with the gradual removal of the branch office and its impact on legalization. Honorable President and dear members of the council. I bring it here to remind you that it is the General himself who is to be held here on the helm not only for financial management but also for policies, management and management of government and administration. The role of the government is to perform the law, the role of the administration as well. But it is not a government or executive, government, to establish the law. It is not acceptable for the management or execution of the Agency to take over a wide range of legal laws that provide a sense of urgency and the use of preventative measures to run over anything called a free society. In the light of a realistic assessment of the danger and the risk of home preparation, at least we need to be careful not to let it slip away from what we have called civil liberty, justice, etc. If administration and executive authority are given wide and open, it is no longer possible to talk about the political regime. I recommend this as a reminder, a respectable president. I recommend this as an encouragement to the Generals and to the people of the country that they hear to remind them that the most important safety instrument of the nation in its time is a contingency with all that is involved, including government defense, civil liberty and democracy. I wish that peace and happiness will be with the Allied Parliament and the whole nation in the new year. I appreciate this opportunity to come up here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u50	The president would like to mention it for this reason that the matter is Icelandic, and when giving a foreign witness, it should be done in a special way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u51	A respectable president. I heard why. A member of the Parliament refers to the treatment protocols, the pathologists, the legal rights of the administration, the disease prevention procedures, and the Constitutions' rights. He crossed a wide field, and I know it's a debate about budgeting, but I can't help asking why. First, a senator: What does he want? A member of the SEC in Iceland? There is now a system in progress that involves an official, a DCC, sending a memo to the health minister who makes a decision on behalf of the Council of Government as Minister for Disease Control. What does he want for preventative measures, and what does he want about the vaccination of the people of the land? He's talking a lot about human rights and a state of justice, but I'd like to remind him that in the El Team 5. There are cases of European Conventiones that allow the individual's freedom to be impaired by infectious diseases. The main human rights contract in Iceland is expected to impair the freedom of individuals. All I can see is the use of preventative measures that limit meetings and other factors as a result of the transmission of infectious diseases. Then he spoke of a conniving government, that I don't think there's a conniving government in Iceland if I understand correctly. I'm a new member of the council, and I can be absolutely certain that the current government is in the hands of a more-than-real body of Congress here at the General Assembly. I'm not part of this matter of Congress, and there are rules that are in force here, in all committees of the council and in all the activities of the council, and that will be considered below. What exactly does he mean about disease prevention procedures and vaccinations, what does he want there, and what does he mean, that a political government is not available in Iceland or at least to a very limited extent?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u52	A respectable president. I thank you for the opportunity to come back here and explain the details of what I was talking about, if there was anything blurred in what I was talking about. I've simply been suggesting that there be a discussion of disease control issues and measures involved in the treatment prevention will be discussed on a broader academic and political foundation than we've seen so far. I have been concerned that instead of a broad democratic and general discussion of disease prevention, only a psychiatrist makes a memo without visible consultation with other scholars in that field, without any one or another modulation of his proposals, without adequate and apparent theoretical support. This I believe is a sign of a government that is not compatible with what is called the classic democracy and the state of justice and may possibly represent civil liberty in the country, and I have actually said it, I stand by, that I believe it was. And I say so too, since I get the chance to come up here again, that I don't think we're seeing the end of the loss of freedom we're facing now and that's in my mind a great anxiety. So I'm urging that the discussion be changed, the power be taken out of the hands of experts, and more activated. At the very least, it would be a legal matter for citizens to see that more experts come up with these issues to control power. In fact, it is in the classical sense the objective of democracy and the objective of Congress that the government is adjusted and that it is balanced in the way we rule the country. [[The president calls.]] With regard to the vaccinees, I have merely encouraged the level of caution in these matters. [[The president calls.]] I thank you again for a good sound, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u53	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I understand it was his virgin, and I congratulate him on her. I understand it's tradition here not to contradict a virgin talk, but I do so in the power of his knowledge, a great deal of legal knowledge and experience, so I would like to answer his speech. I'd like to state that it is very important for a citizen of the country to express his opinion on alcohol prevention and participate in democratic discussions about them, have his opinion on vaccinations, and so on. That's basic. But my opinion is on the path to disease prevention that the system that we now have is excellent in many ways. We have a very powerful pathologist. I'd like to use this opportunity to warn you that there will be a committee to make the decision that will be decided by the current pathologist. I believe that in this kind of war now it is important that the leaders, the individuals, make sudden decisions. I have at least a few minutes. I don't know how many times I've had an infection beds and tests and so forth. In this case, I think we did all right. Icelanders are very effective in emergency management during disasters. But it has become a long period of time and has become a great test of endurance. I thought after my vaccination, it was over, but it doesn't seem so, we're still wearing masks and stuff like that. But I personally try to live by the rules set, and I think it's important that the public do so as well as best of their ability, and I'm not trying to undermine the system we have now in this small community of ours.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u54	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry, and there's no sensitivity in this on my part. I'm just glad to come up and express myself on this. I would like to emphasize that in a small community, every person is precious. Every voice is precious. The democracy is good because it has the exact color of human society to enjoy its own and certain forms of mistaken beliefs, even my delusions and others, best corrected by reflecting them in discussion. That's exactly the danger I see in this new government I've called in Iceland, i.e. Some kind of community and specialist government rather than republicry and democratic government in the classic sense. The best defense we have is to trust the source of the republic, not disappear in fear, and may realistically evaluate fear and danger at each occasion, and in that case, we all need our hands on deck to express ourselves and to encourage those in charge. I'm not suggesting anything unrealistic or crazy about the material, just measured, theoretical, and balanced discussion that I've found to be lacking. I have missed that the council did not give more attention to these matters and that it was actually set in motion by rules throughout the public life of the day without the arrival of the council, which is unfortunate. I hope that it will be improved in the coming year.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u55	A respectable president. I'm not gonna stick around for a while. I'm just gonna come up here to close up this discussion and thank you for it. I'd like to go over the main thing, though. The priority of the government is to continue to promote economic and social stability in the terms of the ideal period in which we are looking. It is a role and to be the role of the government to contribute to the environment of low growth, moderate inflation, and in good consultation with all partners of the labour market. It is urgent and extremely important that we restore the financial status of the state funds and the guarantee of long-term sustainable financial resources, and in this way we need to expand our resources. Similarly, government funds need to be spent on money policy years and to help reduce inflation and economic stability. Of course, it is worthwhile to remind you that at least 180 billion bucks. The next year, which is about 5% of gross domestic product. We have used the government budget vigorously, and the result has been an increase in economic activity and a better debt than we anticipated. We can see what has been done for us and, fortunately, unemployment has been reduced. We continue to emphasize powerful support for innovation, research, and development as a support for the economy, thus supporting the growth of the economy. The government's investment rates increased significantly during the past terms, and they were also significant in recent years and this, in response to the economic effects of the crown virus, as we know. If we look at national interest capital investments, the budget is expected to cover a total of some 88 billion, or 2.5% of gross domestic product, which is considerably higher than the long - term average of investments. We continue on the road to building wood. Now, for example, we answer a nursing home's cry for an increase in the pay of the day, and there is further increase in health care. A new course of health to 2030, approved here at the General Assembly, aims for the health system in the years to come. As we know, the largest investment project is the continuation of the construction of a new land hospital, and it is expected that we will spend some 14 billion on it in the coming year. In addition, an estimated 3 billion dollars is expected. contributions to continue strengthening the hospital to deal with the pandemic. As I've been in the past, there will be a series of six high-supervising reports and 30 new rehabilitation reports established by a special epidemic unit in Fos Soil. We're going to raise the budget for health insurance on less than 5 billion. There, the cost of buying drugs goes on a larger scale. We expect 800 million. K. increase in supply to the health care unit to continue to reduce the patient's payment, as well as temporarily increasing the allowance for mental health care for one year by 400 million. K. We continue on the road to strengthen our health care facilities as the first stop of users and further strengthens a multidisciplinary teamwork that will lead to health care when it comes to health care and to follow a human health and prevention programme. In order to reduce hospital stress, especially the emergency department, there is an increase in the number of services and health - care centers. Mental - health services will continue to be promoted by all groups of society, especially children and young people, and special emphasis will be placed on promoting preemptive mental health. National mental - health teams must continue to be strengthened and endeavored to provide variety of services and to care for different needs. It is also a pleasure to relate that at a meeting of the former legal committee, more part contributed to a total of 150 million. K. additional contributions will be made to Iceland's Medical Insurance to fund subsidies for psychology services following contracts that Iceland's Medical Insurance will make. All of this is for mental - health services. We've also discussed an additional percentage increase in disability and sensibilities at this time of the year. With the indicated actions, it will return to the pocket, where the decrease rate varies from 25% to 11% of basic life and age-related microenergy supplementation. These are the first steps toward a more transparent and just system. They're small, but we're on our way. In the Treaty, there is a plan to attack people with reduced skills for rehabilitation and employment. To that end, the public and the general labour market need to increase the number of flexible jobs and part - time jobs. We also want to ensure the survival of those who are unable to participate in a workforce. In the bill, I'd like to reiterate that an elderly citizen's holiday target will be doubled next year to 200,000. It is important that we continue to provide older ones with a wide variety of territory and territory. That's where we have to look beyond the box. I hope that a project of the city and State or the Ministry of Health, such experimental projects, will be successful, setting the pattern for what should come. In recent years, climate expenditures have increased dramatically and we continue on that path, as Iceland has set its own national target of 55% reduction by 2030 compared to 2005. Remunerations to the seminars increase by a billion to a total of 13 billion next year. It is in harmony with government policy to increase the annual contribution to climate by a billion until 2031, which has increased by about 10 billion throughout the period. Another 600 billion will be added. K. to speed up transport energy exchange. We also legalize tax incentives to support government energy exchanges and climate goals. A respectable president. I'm about to end this discussion and I'd like to make two rights here. A greater proportion of legal committees contributed 640 billion. K. maintenance of travel costs at the Management Board and institutions, in the spirit of government climate policy. Perhaps we've fixed well the cost of the change in Board of Directors and a little more than that. Then I'd like to correct what was said in the case of the day. paritaprevir This morning, Jón Steindór, the son of Valdimarsson, criticized that he was being appointed by the Generals. So I'd like to make a decision, so General's agent gets 36 million to add two legal standards, and the holding is canceled, as requested. This priority in expanding the budget, and much is not stated, is in line with the clear policy of a new government to build a strong community of welfare and equal instruments. Finally, I'd like to say, as we've all come to see, the time for the financial work has been aggravated, extremely tight. I reiterate my gratitude to members of the board for good cooperation and for having been willing to cooperate all along and wanting to pay for this work. I certainly hope it gives the tone for the coming terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u56	President. Just to finish the discussion and actually make a living for the handling of budgets here at the council. It has been shown in the discussion how untransparently these budgets are, tremendous innuendo, and even greater today. If we're going, for example. to vote for more part modifications or less substitution that are, for example, a. changes made to the Ministry of Presidency totals 40 million, 35 million, and 10 million, but more than 85 million, not 40, 35, and 10. If I as a senator would like to say, yes, I'd like to agree to the Ministry of Presidency on a legal opinion of 10 million, I can't. I can't ask for disunition on these 85 million who are making more changes in order to say yes to 10 million, but perhaps they are sitting with the other suggestions of 40 and 35 million. This is a defect in the budget bill now and the budget that is defined by a lack of transparency and lack of understanding regarding what is being done in this council hall on the matter of approval of legal authority. I just wanted to push the head of a budget board to see if we shouldn't go to a lot of work in the coming process and during this term to fix it so that it's clear that the funds are here, and so we can vote on some special legal proposals, like one would think we could do.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u57	A respectable president. We're gonna go for a second. A senator has discussed this with the transparency before, and it's extremely important and I've supported him in it, and I know that the former Chairman did too, trying to get close to this. The steps have been slow, yet we have something slightly pushed forward. Yes, I'm quite ready to do that, I've painted it here, and I think we should take the time to go to this job because it's really important. Indeed, it is important that we not allow ourselves to be crushed into something, so we can't even vote for a vote because it is in a pot or in a fold of documents or rows that can't be elected for a complete student. I know that that's what it is, and I don't think that's just part of a financial committee. I think that's what it's going to be for. And I think we have more people, even staff and others, to try to make it simpler and more productive, the presentation on the bill itself too, not just on change proposals and stuff like that. It would certainly be better if it were to improve. While it may be easier for us to adapt the whole thing, I agree that it would do much better if we could do it better and more beneficial. You might break up things, even if they were in the same language numbers or joints. So, yes, I would like to go to this job. We know we have a little work to do after the New Year's, but I will not push this thing away. I think we should go to this job--or continue it, we've taken a chicken step, as I said. So at least I'll say yes. Let's get close.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u58	Mr. President. I appreciate that. I just want to say that I haven't been able to deal with these hen steps, that's the problem. We need to examine closely these laws, financial laws, as well as financial plans, government policies, and entirely in annual accounts. They should be in what we want, and the people and the people need to understand what is being done with the public. I've never heard of us being asked or asked how the people should act. An idea of greed may be to dissociate even lawsuits or grammatical areas by law, demonstrating the cost of the implementation of these laws. Then you can ask about the dissociation of various tasks within them, etc. The very foundation for what we're doing here is setting laws that have costs we follow up and monitors to be performed appropriately. Part of this monitoring is to check that the cost is adequate according to the cost assessment of the law. You wonder if it would be more beneficial in some way or not. In any case, you would understand the context, what is always called in the frame, or total, of the past year or something like that. Then there would be some disunition of what you can see over the years.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u59	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I think maybe we'll need a work conference plan on this. Sometimes it's been said that we have to have such a yellow ticket meeting. Maybe that's how we need to go through some water and get together the first steps, where we'd like to start, because we know we can't get over the whole first episode. But if we wanted to see some results even in the next budget right away, I think we need to try to watch the big movie, try to make a breakthrough, and first of all, find out what it is we want and how we want to change, whether we get together on how we want to see it. All for the benefit, I agree with that, and that we can follow up on the fact that the funds are being dealt with as they are supposed to be used. So I agree with it, and I think we're all on the committee to do this. I trust it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u60	A respectable president. The budget of a new government is the first test to see if its promises are accepted. Now the government has shown the game about the first quarter of the terms and does not seem to make much of that promise. The scope of the State Fund action over the last two years reflects the necessary response to a pandemic, not a policy or application. The third year is the year in which reactivity issues are controlled and there is little room for needed improvement on the public bases for the welfare or application. This reflects the basic focus of government over the past few years. The wealth is an observer, not a community doer, and it stands alone in distress. A little discussion on the importance of developing markets is needed to change the underlying imbalance in the system. We owe one another as a community to strengthen the foundation upon which we all grow. If the next year's budget is determined, that strength will not take place soon.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u61	A respectable president. As soon as we are faced with a government budget of 180 billion squares next year, we still have these funds to meet the challenges ahead with the public's interests and prosperity. We emphasize the importance of growing out of this deep crisis that we have been in and are still in. We will continue to develop public services, end the government's purpose to provide people with an equation and a climate guide. A respectable president. It's a building law.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u62	President. These are excellent suggestions, some bad ones. But what is the main problem with these budgets is what is missing, and that is what the government stresss, what is missing. There is a flaw in the implementation of these budgets. They are extremely transparent, making some suggestions that simply cannot be elected. You can't get disunited to say, "Yes, I want this 10 billion." K. ... butno,I don't want the other million that come with it. It is simply put together in one summer that I cannot, as a senator, say yes or no to each separately. Therefore, as well as in the general situation, we do not ask for disunitions to make things work a little better and to sit by in the most successful laws of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u63	V.E.G. President. I just wanted to come up here as a financier and thank you for the fine work that was done on the committee in leading this document here in front of us, and we are now giving up for the General Assembly of the Icelanders. In many ways, secular work was different from that of many times before. Time was more challenging, but I am convinced that we managed to do well in difficult situations during the short time that would allow us to finish this. So I'm very comfortable with the budget we're offering here. They help us to take a big step in growing out of our problems. We're building up. It's the building law, and I'm convinced that these budgets are steps in the right direction for all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u64	Madam President. We're here paying votes for next year's budget that reflect an amazing economic shock. We're on the right track. We're cutting back. These are funding that are strengthening, upbuilding, reflecting government policies that received a new commission in the fall. We did better in the current year than we feared. This was not the least because the government and the Senate were alert to social situations and that's how we want to stay. We want to put our hands around society. We want to keep building. It's ours in here to carry that tide to support the building and the parish that we're building with these embezzlements.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u65	President. Money is the flagship of every government, and it is to describe plans and promises as to what lies ahead. It's a date. Sadly, these budgets are burned to the point that they are primarily standards of station. These are budgets that do not deal with the larger systems that are important to our society. There's nothing going on with the government itself. The government continues to run with a tilt. This is very bad, but this is, of course, a description of the broad solidarity of cohesion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u66	President. I don't think that's enough money. They are not enough for the hospital in the middle of a pandemic. They do not contain enough money for building buildings. They are by no means sufficient to ensure a man - made price for microchip. They are not sufficient to pay MPA for all who are entitled to that service. Granted, they are not enough to deal with climate, and they are not enough to subsidize the psychological services that this council agreed on a year ago that we would. Of course, it is happy that the more part responded to the desire of the smaller parts to do better when it comes to subsiding psychological services, but it is not enough to cover the costs of this council. These laws are not enough; they do not grow to prosperity. [[The president calls.]] But it may only be expected from this government of the lowest possible candidate.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u67	A respectable president. It has been observed that there is a high degree of failure that the terms of remuneration are respected and that a substantial proportion of businesses are mistakenly listed as capital gains in Iceland. At present, there is considerable information to be taken into account for the tax authorities when it comes to determining partners in their own business of normal wages. It is noteworthy that these indications have not been addressed, such as specifying capital gains on the basis of sectoral property and preparing for yield, as are done in many countries. It is suggested in this suggestion. We will be worth billions of dollars every year because of this gap in the present rule - making work, and this is money that can easily be used for better aspects of society. That's why we're saying yes to the United States.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u68	A respectable president. Somehow, we need to finance our welfare society. It is based on subsidies in the combination so that we can support our long - term welfare systems. We've seen certain income institutions lost in recent years, some of them good, some of which are evil, i.e. reduce taxation on groups that can certainly bear greater burdens. Here we are. looking for ways by raising the price of hunting, by paying more for society to those who have a broader bed. But it's not just about income. It is also a matter of righteousness. We know that Iceland's resource level is estimated at 30 to 70 billion dollars. every year. During the next year, we will get about 5 billion out of the price. This is a coin that we can use in building a service in a welfare state. We need to look beyond our time for the way we care for the ministry. This is what we vote for today. That's why the Conspiracy says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u69	President. During my last term, I sought information on how much government funds were paid to monitor the fishing road; Fishing Office, Merro, Landkeeping, etc. The cost of doing so was only about 500 million. K. below the average fishing rate per year, which means we get 500 million. K. A year in profit from this combined resource while the remuneration is much higher. This proposal is a fraction of what it takes just to settle it, to divide half. There are so many things you can do to get this, e.g. I'll put down the price exchange plant, just that. It would really have to pay the real price for what she hunts and pays sailors a real salary for what they catch.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u70	A respectable president. This proposal involves bringing the bank tax to its former end and reaching 6 billion dollars. ... ina treasureofthecreet. It is important for a body of Congress to realize that the community is not a competitive banking system. It's an automatic system. Thirteen years after failure, we have been unable to build a competitive banking system. This is one of the biggest problems in Icelandic society, that the banking system is not a system that serves the public but only its owners. The argument against this suggestion has been that by then banks only increase their interest. There are arguments that are completely unacceptable to us here at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. - I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u71	A respectable president. Although there are quite a number of teams gathered there is one factor that makes me say yes, there are 200 million sexually involved. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u72	A respectable president. Here we are paying votes for the money to be used for farmers who are in the blood supply to help them quit that ugly industry because one animal is being raped to prey on another animal. It's a disgrace to us. I hope we will agree here at the Council to forbid this evil treatment on this beautiful animal that is the horse and that has been the most useful servant of ours. This is to make sure that farmers will not be harmed when it is approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u73	A respectable president. This is where we vote for our cultural wealth and culture. We, on the smaller part of the budget board, noticed that this year contributions are to be drawn from this fund from year to year. Since 2020, cultural funds have fallen to some 1 billion dollars, 400 million now between the years. What kind of situation are we in today? Today, culture is in a very difficult situation, where cultural funds have provided a measure of culture for the sake of living. At work, we made serious comments not to be viewed, especially in Covid, to strengthen this fund instead of reducing its power. The argument was that a great deal of Covid comes to an end, to the end, to make it happen. But this is where we're all sitting in masks today. In the United States, we vote with this proposal to strengthen the cultural wealth, knowing for certain that our cultural life will need assistance in the coming year.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u74	President. As mentioned earlier, this was due to cultural funds, which is exactly one of the things missing in this financial bill. It's missing. And if we go back to 2020, that's what they say, about a billion. This is an additional step, if she followed the suggestions of the greater part, perhaps to what is missing. So we suggest minimally that we keep seawater in these difficult areas. This should be a minimum requirement.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u75	A respectable president. It is a pleasure to report that the more part is being added to civilization, and after the introduction to museums from the Ministry of Culture and Business, these funds will rise but will not decrease. Here are some factors: Artist's pay is increased by 100 million; the job theaters are increased by 55 million; the music is about 60 million; the art fund is about 55 million; the child culture is about 5 million; and the National Archives collection is about 75 million. All of this takes place almost half a billion because all of us here wholeheartedly agree that we need to support culture and creative articles. So I welcome these suggestions and thank you very much for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u76	A respectable president. We're here to vote if we're gonna stay out of surgery at the hospitals in our country. It's heading for 2 billion bucks. in view of the decision to avoid adding the so - called real - life interest to the hospital, we could also take with the Hospital in Akureyri, in view of the decision to avoid adding the so - called real - life interest to the hospital. This means that the hospital does not have to be expected to obtain legal documents to deal with the aging and proliferation of a nation. A nation's age and growth are inevitable. The cost of these things cannot be avoided. We're putting up budgets in these or more of the budgets and the government to reduce the pressures in other parts of the system, just to reduce the necessary resources to cope with increased pressures. This will land in the hospital later in the year. That's why we're saying in the United States:
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u77	A respectable president. As I came in earlier, these budgets are by no means enough. They are not enough to ensure adequate hospital management in Iceland, in the middle of a pandemic. We are just suggesting a minimum amount needed to get away from only the hunger policy that has been run against the health system here for years. It's a minimum proposal. This situation cannot be maintained, keeping our medical institutions on a permanent budget, allowing the nation's aging and population increase in the quality of the ministry. There will not be a health system in the first category. It's not something we can be proud of. I encourage more of our efforts to turn their stand for better health care in Iceland. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u78	President wants to encourage them. Senators to vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u79	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u80	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you for the discussion we have on our health care system. It is clear that we are all in the medical and hospital, as is suggested here. I just want to draw out the context here in view of the discussion. This government has stood by the health system and met the increased stress expressed during the Covid epidemic, which is truly great. I just want to draw out the context of the objects here. For 2017, about Sixty billion in Land Hospital. They're up to 90 and they're growing 10 billion into this year, the budget we're accepting here. That's about a 13% increase. Speaking of actual stress, the real deal is more than 3%. It's higher than the real stress you're referring to here. It is true that this crisis, including the load, has been resolved. to ease the pressure in the hospital, in the intensive care unit, and in the hospital, and in other things. And then I just want to say, finally, based on these figures and the budget bill that we agreed on yesterday, with all the extra Covid costs at the Land Hospital, it's a little weird if there's no confirmation that we're all at the hospital. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u81	A respectable president. We vote on whether to strengthen the country's psychological and mental - health services. I'm glad, and all of us in the smaller part, that it was at least Some of the wishes that there would be more to this group of subjects, in view of the fact that this has been agreed to promote psychological services in the country without its application. We're looking at budgets that refuse to create microchip on the grounds that the main focus of this government is to promote human activity. One of the highest rates of disability is among young people with spiritual illness. Here is an opportunity to strengthen people, to strengthen the people, to be without financial support. That's why we're saying yes to the United States.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u82	President. This is where the government states to recommend that the Council provide a financial warrant for the law they have already agreed on, that we provide adequate financial resources for some time ago that we have already decided to implement, and that is a subsidence of the psychological services. We provide a lower limit for the cost estimates agreed by the General Assembly, which were reported at 800 to 1,700 million sunboats. We set the lower limit, that this important service has already been accomplished by the Parliament but is not ready to stand up once it has come to pass. We'll pay for a compromise vote, at least raise the money in this, which is good. But it's still not enough, and it's not good that we're accepting this law all the time and all the time that we're not willing to accept it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u83	Madam President. It should therefore be welcomed that this is the setting of funding for the psychological service, its subsidies. [[Up front.]] Why? [[Up front.]] Excuse me, I'll just jump out.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u84	Here seems to be a misunderstanding, since there are votes on two suggestions on the same document. We'll finish this vote. Number 46 on deck. 211 is what we just finished.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u85	A respectable president. Now an agreement has been made to raise budgets intended for subsidies from a total of 100 million dollars to 250 million, which are still far too little but certainly more than it is, and therefore, a cause for rejoicing. I hope now it's better to negotiate subsidies for psychology because this important service needs to be done quickly, especially in the light of the situation. This result, this increase, is due to the solidarity of the government, its solidarity with the people's mental health, and our high emphasis on doing better in this series but also our high emphasis on the fact that the Council is guaranteed, that when we agree with them, we also lend it. It's just that you're probably doing it. This is a step in that direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u86	President. It is a pleasure to have an agreement with a greater proportion of the proposal made by a financial committee. It has long been our debate on wood to ensure psychological services in a way that health insurance is involved in cost. A little over a year ago, the General passed its laws, but there is a shortage of funding and also a shortage of Iceland's health insurance to negotiate with psychologists, and that's a problem. It's not good if the budget provides funds for the Agency to prepare a contract to provide a specific service if it then ends up in the health insurance agency. I think we senators have to unite in making sure that Iceland's insurance will go to the agreements she's made.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u87	A respectable president. Here we are taking steps, step by step, for those with mental illness who need help. We must realize that the money that goes to that seminar is very well spent. We're stopping this from being a transfer of microchip to the future. It doesn't mean that we come up here and say, "What are we going to do about the disability problem? The solution is here. That's why I say it's a chicken step, and hopefully we'll take the next full step and make sure those who need this service get it without cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u88	A respectable president. I welcome the increase that has been achieved here on this contribution, which is actually very timely. We need to realize that for some reason, long before the collapse of a bank or Covid, Icelanders had some sort of antipsychotic record that reflects the expected state of bipolar disorder, which is a very special and research subject that we should use to find out what causes. So it's a good thing. I've been thanking the advance to the disability that came in this week, and I thank you for your contributions to culture, but I wish that the council would concentrate on meeting those contracts earlier on things that became a major issue yesterday and that this television station would need to be cut off from a relationship that the nation watches.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u89	Madam President. I just want to agree with the words here on the agreement on this matter and to make it clear that we are all in this room aware of the importance of mental health and the importance of what we have to work on in those matters. In recent years many things have been done, especially in the light of the situation, and now we are continuing to do so. I'm here to celebrate this solidarity and the conversation on this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u90	Madam President. Of course, this adjustment form is required to celebrate, and I have already paid it my vote. However, I would like to point to the indiscriminateness of this case, which is that it is really by the opposition, the lower part of which treaties are involved. This is really just a trace into something that the government has a legal obligation to do. It's not that the memory part is asking for something completely brand new that comes out of ourselves and we can think of. We are simply asking that there is a possibility of following the law. I rejoice that the amount of money is, of course, just a fraction of what is needed. But this was the only agreement this time, which is absurd for itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u91	Madam President. I hope I'm speaking with the right team right now. Therefore, it should be welcomed that this is an increase in the budget for the subsidies of psychological services, something very important to the people's mental health. But the people's emotional state should never be part of a political fox. The fact that we've had to fight here in a speech chair yesterday for this, the highest. Secretary of finance called charades, shame. The lack of funding has already been made with a much higher sum of money written on the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u92	V.E.G. President. I want to, like other members of the council, to rejoice in this contribution. This will be useful in addition to the amount contributed to this agreement. I would like to agree with every word that has been said about mental health and that this supports the way we are going. There are 400 million mental health professionals on the bill, and twice we've had Covid support for these matters, 540 million last. Here goes 80 million to school. A mental - health team is being supported all over the country and psychological services in the medical facility, so I think we are constantly putting our arms together. That's why I welcome the solidarity of the Committee. Thank you. The legal committee, and especially the small portion for the contribution shown here, backs it up whole - souled.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u93	President. These include 500 million contributions to various projects related to prevention and treatment. It suggests about 380 million to the UK and related parties to their projects and 120 million in contributions to other organisations for the prevention and treatment of a variety of addiction problems. Here are such activities as Smokeyund, Mrs. Ragnheki, and other members of the organization who are involved in this vital work. I suggest that we look seriously at the problem here. The members of the U.S.A. came to the branch office and urged us to attend seriously to this legal group. I suggest that people show it in action by pressing the green button.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u94	A respectable president. Now, 600 people are waiting to make it to Vog. Today, only 70% of Vog's rights, the rest 30%, are funded by self-prices. A great deal of the budget is coming in here, after 2nd. ar., only about one third of the U.S. distress call without further support. I would like to state that this is inconsistencies with the government's emphasis on increasing activity and production in society, as well as with the obvious situation that here is a violation of the human rights of people who are in need of needed service. So let us bear in mind, in view of the fact that these are often spoken of as children in society, that individuals in Vogi are young people, often with young children, who have much social problems. Many of those who do not have steady employment have open - minded children's health issues or the judiciary system. How important it is that we strengthen these activities in order to maintain our trust in the foundation! That's why the Conspiracy says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u95	Madam President. It's a great Senate home. The man here who says I can confirm that Vogi works. I had the privilege of being treated by Vogs 40 years ago, who saved my life. Two years later, I was almost out of control and had to go back to therapy. At that time, I thought I could do nothing but go to a foreign country, so I went to a very nice treatment center, Egehill her name. Since then, I've been staying at Hazelden for three weeks, which is the Mecca treatment line in the world. After seeing these foreign treatment institutions, I can confirm that Vogg is a top-class treatment agency, and it's urgent to contribute all the money they need to deal with the problem, because I know the problem personally - and I know the problem too because I'm involved with people who need help.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u96	A respectable president. I would like to agree with the words made here at this vote. Here's 380 million that are supposed to run to FEY. As we have seen, the organization is subfundant. We also have to look to it, and I was aware of my work on a financial committee, that a part of the medical system is driven by a free organization. FEW are the very freedoms of association that care for health care that the State is really supposed to perform. However, free association shows the drive of this important work in Icelandic society. The Icelandic government is obliged to finance this business and not just that, to support this activity, this association that plays an important role in dealing with addiction. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u97	The president wishes, before the continuation of the vote, to remind him to do so. Councilmen who wish to account for their votes need to pray for the word before the first one would speak. I want to reiterate this. The President has shown certain flexibility, including for a distance here from the sideyards. But the president reiterates his exhortation that the senators respond quickly. Then the President wants to pray. Councilmen to respect masked duty while they're not talking.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u98	A respectable president. Year after year, the government has ignored instructions from the 69rd grade. Act on social security. This is no exception. The law allows the pensions of social security to be accompanied by pay development. There's a bit of pay. The remuneration rate has increased by 7.5% per year, but instead of laying the basis for a pay index number, the budget is in the budget based on average increase and a 3.8% rise in pension. In addition, the secretary of finance has added 0.8% of prices because the upcoming of the last budget did not keep up with inflation. So together, it's a 4-6% increase in social security pension. Pension workers cannot go to strike to demand correction. Their interests are not usually given priority to the government. The General Assembly of the Icelanders is to protect the interests of all members of the community and ensure that pensioners will not be discriminated against in this way. Explain the instructions in the 69th chapter of this article. the law on social security is aimed at ensuring it. - I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u99	President. Here's a proposition for 2.5 billion bucks. contributions, on the one hand, $1 billion to raise the job market in accordance with the elderly vacation market and 1.5 billion to stop the blundering of disability pensions compared to biographies. These are actually two suggestions we vote for, but we can't divide it. It's a little awkward. In the theoretical world that the government might agree that the shutting down of the men'feet is not a special vote for that proposal. It's very important. But this is the world in which we live, and we have to fix it, just like we're going to fix it. This is not just a bludgeon for the next year but also, in fact, the accumulated human nail of this year. In fact, if this is not to be approved, it can be said that the disability agreements are missing both 2021 and 2022.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u100	A respectable president. That'll cover 90,000 bucks. of the world's basic biofuel of disability and minimum in the country. There's never time to close this hole because it always seems so insurmountable. Yet, there is another year when we allow this hole to grow and expand. The only thing we are trying to do with this adjustment is to stop the gliding from increasing one more year in a row. It is not even the requirement of entering this hole and shutting it down but only to make this problem my future for the government. Second, we are also paying votes to raise the cost of disability to 200,000 dollars. to enable people living on low incomes to earn extra money without paying the highest taxes in the country. - We in the United States say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u101	A respectable president. Last July, the General adopted the law that government funds should provide funding to raise, train, and import guide dogs to the blind in line with demand. It is important to ensure funding for this task. According to the Board of Directors, 10 billion have been reached. K. to hire a full - time dog trainer, and three guide dogs are being introduced next year. Several are waiting for a guide dog, and the Allied has already agreed to meet the needs of the blind on this guide dog's aid. Follow it along with a flimsy financing. This suggests an additional 50 million. K. to the jury. These funds would shorten the waiting list by guide dogs and ensure that funding for their training and training the owner of guide dogs, which can enhance the quality of life of the blind. It is not a large group, nor would it amount to a large sum of money. - I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u102	President. This is another case in which there is not enough money. There are no additional 320 million here, for there were 300 million of those in the budget. It is simply being replaced by reforms, remunerations, and such. It's about the NPA deal that's been mentioned here a lot. Legally, the state should be paid with a fixed number of contracts each year; 2018 80 treaties, 2021 150 contracts, and the next year, 172 contracts. They are being met by 93 this year, similar to the one next year on the basis of this budget. It's not additional, it's a resolution, despite the fact that we don't have to expand our contracts. There is again no legal hearing set up by the Council. This is not the code of law approved here and then the budget to be approved in order to fulfill the law. Again.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u103	Madam President. This is a very important matter, and I want to inform the Senate that there is a review of the problems of disabled people and is the conclusion of the review now to be expected at the beginning of the next year. In view of this, it is important that we consider the future need for funds for this group of subjects. With the increase here from a financial committee, we gain a measure of stability, which will be guaranteed in the next year in the MPA agreements and will be able to maintain the number of contracts that are currently being negotiated. I'll use myself to make sure that we do well in this group. Much of this is to validate the United Nations Convention on the Rights of disabled people who are to be legalized during this terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u104	A respectable president. Here we vote with a suggestion similar to that of disabled people. It's about reducing the progress of the human erection. It's amazing to see another year in a row that people feel acceptable to see more peaks in the public market than in this group. There are a group of people who can't rely on employment income, who can't take advantage of an increase on the elderly vacation market, which is available to about 3% of the elderly. These are people who have been working physically hard, people who have to rely on basic pensions for extra income, and it's very hard to believe that we're looking at a shut-down year after year. This will only make it harder to get over the problem. That's why we're saying yes to the United States.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u105	President. This is really weird. We always talk about system changes, and what needs to be fixed, etc., but we know that this forward is far below the minimum. No matter what the result of a system change, this gap must inevitably be bridged. At the same time, social security laws vary, in reality, for older citizens and disability, where disability are increased by 1%, while the elderly have an increase in their holiday target. The same approach to these groups is not being used even if they agree with the same laws. The suggestion for the memory of the part is to leave the same points for both of these groups. This is mainly to stop the jaw feeling. Without it, it's much easier to make system changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u106	A respectable president. We're here to vote to control the housing market. Camp - price increases today are a prime reason why inflation is far beyond the cost of inflation. This is the root economic instability in the country. This takes 13 billion additional government budgets per year. It's gonna cost the companies in this country a lot of money. But most of all, these people in the country are at a price of safety. There's something wrong with a welfare state where there seems to be no weapons to provide shelter for the affordable price. This is a way of holding back the price. We'd like to double the budget that goes into building a suitable housing. This is a way of providing rented homes at low and cost - cost price for people in need. However, it is also for other groups; disabled people, students, not just low - income people, people at the time of their lives that they need inexpensive housing. In the same way, this also restrains the cost of housing on the market. That's why we're saying yes to the United States.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u107	President. According to a report by the Homing House and Civilization Agency, there is a shortage of apartments within the country. Everybody knows this, and they've known for a very long time. Government initiatives have added funding to the demand side, increasing prices, rising prices, and increasing to the inflation that affects all of us. If we're going to reduce this shortage of apartments, as suggested by Homing and Mobilization Institutes, we're going to need 3.5 billion a year to build a budget to cover it. It's the minimum to work down that slope, minimum. We would like to do better, of course, but this is a request to the government to please do what is least necessary to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u108	A respectable president. I agree with the words that have been made here in connection with this vote. These suggestions are intended to increase the provision of housing. Housekeeping is the largest joint in the world that is moving on inflation and inflation. This is a way that the government and the state can use to reduce inflation in Iceland. This motivates more of the country's housing and, especially, the local community's motivation to build more and provide conditions for increased housing for low-payers and middle-temperatures. - I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u109	Madam President. I'd like to use this opportunity and thank a budget for making up my proposal to reimburse the contributions made to the Associations of ◯78, which must have been, in effect, being handled by the Ministry of Presidents, except for the fact that this is the second year in a row that it happens. I suggest that, with this budget assured in hand, the Ministry of Justice goes on to negotiate with the organization for a longer time than one year and asks that they apologize for these annual vices have been adopted and it only became more difficult as a ministry minister who always wants to brag about being so damn thorough in queer matters, getting better into treating queer interests of people's interests with respect.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u110	A respectable president. Here we propose, four groups in the smaller section, 3 billion bucks. This is a case that is distributed on a number of departments. Of course, this is not enough time. In this country, the last contract of measures, 55% reduction in emissions by 2030, has been adopted, but despite additional policy recession, there is no additional budget. This is our path, including ours. in the memory section to help with this objective. There's a chance we'll have to raise the budget of this suit. This is an investment to the future, for it will take on us later if we don't put money in green economy, we don't support technology development and solutions in this area to make sure that we're still the best at this level of issues in the next decade. That's why we're saying yes to the United States.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u111	Madam President. It is one thing to talk about green investments, building green infrastructures, talking about innovation, green innovations, and other means of funding it. We're always going through the same thing. We hear the government saying something, even making laws and putting them on, but the funding is missing. Here's the funding for green innovations and green infrastructures. We offer all our help to provide appropriate counsel to make sure that this will come back in the future in a far greater way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u112	Madam President. It was not expected that the government would be particularly leading in climate matters when we saw the election policy lists before elections in the autumn. That's fine with the budget. In fact, the budget for climate is not nearly sufficient, and over a five - year financial program, they are to reduce immediately in the following year. Here's a suggestion to take a little step in the right direction. It is not even enough to fulfill our goals. I don't think it's up to the board to support it. I hope it's not like six months ago when the government's officials proposed a proposal to establish their own targets in Iceland's emissions of greenhouse gases that have now suddenly become a government policy, as if it had invented it. I hope they're only beginning to realize that the next few years are crucial to the battle against climate change and such a roll and smudge as the government is involved in these issues. [[The president calls.]] It is literally criminal toward future generations.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u113	A respectable president. A little context here. Here, the government, in these budgets, is making 500 million money in the new ministry, as we have sometimes called the U.S.R., the Ministry of Education, 500 million this year, probably about 2 billion for this election period. Compared to that, 250 million people are subsiding psychology services this year. So the QA receives 500 million because of something that the three presidents might think of in terms of coffee, but a project that has been agreed on by the Council to be able to make a total of 250 million.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u114	Madam President. According to OECD, the rich world countries are expected to produce 0.7% of the gross national product for development. The government boasts of raising the project from 0.32% to 0.37%, but it was found that the GDP grew and the figure in the budget would have established us to 0.38%, slightly higher, only closer to what we had planned. But no, what did more of the legal committee do? He took this amount and dropped it, what goes to people in distress, what goes to people who live less than $2 a day. And where was it put? Yes, in making and changing the ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u115	Madam President. No more names are added to the list of artist's awards this time. The Commission, a General and Education Committee, which is a significant newcomer, is well agreed to the need to revise the law and become our first work in the new year. We live in a world other than that of artists'honored awards. We'd like to call professional societies and other artists to the table. Women are now inclined in spite of the law's regulations. In the time of the metoo revolution, it is important not to fear taking the conversation and looking to factors other than achievements in the art field when assigning the privileges and payments of public funds. There is a budget for 25 credit artists and therefore it is not excluded that a new year's list will be improved once review has been completed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u116	A respectable president. The a-team at this vote is to vote on whether or not to be authorized to sell in Iceland. This is where the privateisation of the banks is resumed by granting authorization for sales of all parts of Iceland. The last privateization of the banks took place in 2003. A few years later, in October 2008, the collapse occurred. This is an enormously important document given by the General Assembly, and where is the discussion? I have not had any discussion about this warrant and what the conditions should be for it. What matters is not the price of sale on the bank, it's the quality of the owners. That's the main thing, who to sell. That lesson was learned in October 2008. I have a feeling we haven't learned that lesson. If the bank is to be sold, it is to be used for reorganization in the bank market and there are two objectives, a community bank or a link to a Norwegian bank market, which is the most efficient and developed banking market in the world. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u117	A respectable president. This is a vote for a sale at the National Bank. One of the saddest things I've had when I've lived abroad is when I tell about the fact that the Landsbanki Iceland, The National Bank of Iceland, was sold to individuals who made beer sales in Europe's most corrupt state in the most corrupt decade of the big country. The response is incredible. The people are silenced. I challenge people to try to tell this story abroad, it's just everybody. Iceland's privateisation of banks has not been restored in 2003, and if we're going on the road to selling the Lands Bank on the same basis without clear goals, without the approval of its owners at the General Assembly of Iceland and none other than the Allied Congress of Iceland, we're on the wrong road and we're about to begin the newest campaign, the newest greed period in Iceland history. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u118	President. Selling Iceland Bank got totally screwed up, it was literally giving the first letters, so now we're at least on the right price, and the salinity ahead of it is as though there's nothing in our hands. But there's no way I could trust this government or this secretary of finance to start selling new banks.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u119	A respectable president. There's a warrant for sale on the ferry of the Navy, an oldjķjķjķjķjķjķjķurf, which is at the pier in the Western Islands. Farmers on the West and the West have called for military coaches, i.e. Old Collards, to be used for ferry cruises on Bresafjörður to relieve old Baldur who does not meet modern security requirements and others do not meet demand. This is an enormously important means of transportation for the West. It is time to settle conditions in the northwestern district, and the region will be equal to the capital area. We need to start with a big campaign of transportation, and it is important that we try to use the old Emirates for sailing in the Cape, where there is a tremendous growth in fish farms, and it will continue to strengthen the coast on the West. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-22-16.u120	Before I close a meeting, I'd like to use this opportunity to present to all the members of the council and to our staff and to the people of the land the best wishes for a merry and peaceful Christmas. Like what? The members of Congress are aware of the third meeting at Christmas, so our separation will not be long this time. It is marked as the holding of Congress on December 27 and 28th. Then there are budgets and a number of other issues that will need full consideration before the New Year's Eve. I repeat my Christmas greetings to what? Senators and for our President, I thank you for your cooperation in busy and unusual days. Those who have come a long way home, I wish we could all meet together right after this brief Christmas break.
