ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u1	Mr. President. Now are the days; the days have become ballroom weekend if they don't have a week; explosives that originally came in here during the Middle Ages with Hansa merchants and German bishops, ◯Sprintigg sheep, and is turning Catholic to sprinkle dedicated water on people and things, as is the German verb ◯hryen-56, to distribute. So there's a decree from the then European Union that has become an eating day. We've turned it into a birthday in Iceland. Besides, it's the most fun day of all of them, ash Day. In a normal year's trip, this town is full of kids in weird costumes singing for candy. I stand here myself in a suit that would have seemed to have been a funny costume on me for the longest of my life and although I'm not currently singing for candy straight, I might have pulled a little bit of the interpretation and said that the coming election battle is a long, long day of ash. Then politicians come to the eyes and ears of the public and take some form of prograting and wear some sort of costume and get the reward of some sort of candy. Then, a respectable president, when they talk about how they want to close their taxes, even though at the moment the government groups are putting down the job of an tax investigator and running Panama all the way out of the map. They will talk about child reforms, although the fact is that in this country child damage is lower than in the North and is more regarded as poverty grant than the rights of parents. They will regret the deterioration of the social security system, and they will be sorry for poverty, although they refuse to ensure the minimum withdrawal of jobseekers. [[The president calls.]] That is how it can be counted for a long time. Then those who choose will have to know the sheep from the goats. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u2	President. Last night, there was a debate about the affairs of immigrants, a simple subject on the activities of the National Society. Without further reviewing the discussion, there is one factor that needs to be added, and this is consideration. The immigrants are a diverse minority in Icelandic society, much less the group that has come here for persecution in their own country. It is a group that can be deeply involved in public discussions and who find it difficult to comment for obvious reasons. This fact brings certain consequences to public discussions. It requires consideration for the matters of this group that are needed so that those who are unable to give a reply do not have to answer for them. This does not mean restriction of expression freedom or censorship, which simply means that we need to be careful about our speech. Undistracted issues to this group can easily be misunderstood in every way, with very serious consequences. Historically, there are some groups that have been particularly negative and prejudiced. There are immigrants, religious groups, and people with different skin colorings of the most obvious examples. Historically, certain political elements have developed prejudiced debates in favor of bad and often disastrous results. So the responsibility of those who flirt with such prejudices, even those who are ill - meaning and who flirt with them, is great. The result is no matter how well - meaning prejudices were. If people do not understand the importance of taking the lead in a discussion of immigrants, the problem lies there; in ignorance of the consequences of prejudice and unconcerned debates about groups that cannot be answered.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u3	President. Unfortunately, it was not surprising that this morning it was reported that there should be a police issue at a police hearing tomorrow. No doubt this report appeared in the wake of the shooting last Saturday. I hope the police aren't about to use the tragic event that contributes to the challenge of armsing the police. The police were nowhere near when the shooting took place, so the use of the attack would be of little value to prepare a lawsuit for the police's further arms trade. An internal minister's answer to a request for the arms property of the 2015 police reveals that the police had a total of 590 weapons. Between January 1, 2015, and June 10, 2020, 188 additional weapons were purchased. Therefore, the police are armed with weapons, so the question is, Do we need to increase the monitoring of existing arms property instead of increasing the number of weapons? Still more of the police arms control is not going to solve any problems. I hope the U.S. Senate realizes that when the police pressure comes through the door with great force. With respect to police authority to investigate organized activities, we must not forget that police action involves the intervention of privacy, and it is not without reason that police authority to intervene in individual private life is restricted. Police officials believe in Iceland there's less policy on police authority than it does for a member country. It may not be bad if we consider the case involving individuals' rights in the foreground. Police, like any other government, must never receive uncircumcised authority as to anything. That's close to living in the state of police. Would further police arms have prevented the shooting on Saturday? No. Would increased police surveillance, an assessment of her general working environment have been able to prevent the event on Saturday? At least I choose to believe it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u4	President. I'd like to pick up the thread where it went. A senator who spoke before me let him go. In the wake of this terrible last weekend, shooting, murder, another debate has arose over whether the general police are to be armed. I'll take a warning about it. We would probably discuss how the police, the good agency, and the very essential role that plays in working against organized crime, have a general view of the need to change things, of course, with all rights in mind. I'm sure they're taking their case. President. We need to decide what kind of nation we want to be. I believe we still want to be a nation where the public police are not armed. The present arrangement has proved to be effective. A task force has weapons to be in charge if necessary. We are not to throw our hand, because of the reaction to terrible things, when we wondered how the answer is. Let us consider these matters, but let us ask ourselves this fundamental question: " What nation do we want to be? As far as I'm concerned, my answer is simple: we're supposed to promote the general police. We're not supposed to take the step of increasing her arms.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u5	A respectable president. Investment has recently called attention to the new bill of social and child-real Affairs for the job document and described it as a wet rag in the face of persistent thefts. There are too many people in Iceland to pay thefts, and the problem is growing. Yet, the Icelandic government has repeatedly backed up his words of legal reform in this case. The workforce and efficiency of the workforce have not been achieved. Instead, there are useless legal ideas in which the labor movement's views have not been met. A review of this new bill says, according to the President's permission: ▪ In the bill, victims of pay theft are put out of their own security before a labour agency gives them an audience in a new and extremely complex course of treatment, in which each step compromises their ability to break down. Job drivers get a full self - example of self - blame in a ◯ Congregation Committee and decide for themselves whether a special case applies to their case. In fact, the bill lays all responsibility on an individual employee, and penalties are limited to that one matter rather than considering all similar issues that are likely to take place at the same time. The bill does not contain any tax or money control, as the labor movement has called out, which could ensure the consequences for the most common job thefts in the Icelandic labour market. It is incomprehensible, respectable president, why the present government has no greater ambition in the affairs of paymen. The director of Efvers has said that a minister's imagination has been released without any trace of the reality of workers and low-payers. Why can't you do these things well and be careful of the rights of those who actually turn their professional wheels in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u6	V.E.G. President. Building the Akureyri Airport, expanding air bases, and flying barns. We agreed here on a council plan for 18 billion because of Covid by the end of March last year. That was the first raise of five last year. At that time, there was also a difference between the two groups. Decided to take on the expansion of the airport airport airports, and put 200 million on that job, and enlargement of airports at Akureyri airport 315 million before it. It was thought of as funding to start this vital project. It was later found that the project should be completed through the government investment campaign for the year 2021, 2022, and 2023, a special 60 billion investment initiative in response to the Covid economic crisis. Yesterday, a meeting was conducted by the National Marketing Lab that discussed the construction of the Akureyri Airport in connection with international flights to and from the airport. That's where we even came from. Until construction is started, practical projects are ports, and much design is done. It even came. conducted by an local representative of Isvia's local work on the design of new terminals by now the end of March. The time line of Istavia, an executive in charge of the government on this project, assumes that the completion of the work will be May, June 1923, at the completion of a new flight charge. There's a lot of options in Icelandic tourism by Covid. There's obviously a lot of travel abroad and to get us home. We have good products to offer where people can travel in the country, pick up small ones, and enjoy a quiet environment in Iceland. We have a huge chance in this situation. Here, too, consider the construction of the international flying system in the country. We are advancing the national emergency flight system, and we need to consider the importance of the Egli Zone and the Reykjavík airport in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u7	Mr. President. I mean, it's kind of spring out now, and then it's nice to talk about such ideologies as the city line, which is coming out of nowhere and is actually not just ideologies anymore. The city line is about to become a reality, and it's going to matter a lot. It will increase the likelihood that people will choose carless or carless lifestyles. The first phases to come will be raised in the next four to five years, i.e. A passage from the Cape of Altaics to Hamraburg, Kópavogi, in two lines. With the city line being used, cars will probably be fewer, which means easy traffic, both for those who use the city line and for those who do not. Thus all groups, those who select a car, those who choose not to drive, and those who have to use a car. If you do well, the city line will help us into a new era where air quality in the capital area will improve. This can happen even if the absolute number of travel travel is only 10 to 20% of the total population. At the same time, the city line will be built or laid 15 miles [15 km] of bicycle path and 9 miles [9 km] of footpaths. With increasing use of a city line with environmental energy sources, air quality will improve, as I said earlier, thus supporting the work on the government's climate targets. There are exciting times ahead, and I look forward to making a good choice as to whether I can ride a bicycle, walk, or use a city line to survive the Cásnesa in Quodina.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u8	Mr. President. Here's two of 'em. During the preceding discussion, members of the council turned to the police and her sources. Of course, I can agree with them to a degree, i.e. I agree with them that in all cases police authority and power clearances are restricted and monitored. Of course, when government officials, whether police or non - police, are given authority, rich sources, to either study or to use force, power must be shaped in some way. So, of course, there is always a need for caution regarding legal rights and actions in this regard. It is normal, however, when serious events occur that police research and force clearances are taken into consideration, discussed. I think it would be good for us to take up the case at the scene of a global and educational committee, which has, in fact, a with police business to do, so that we can hear from police officials and justice authorities what changes have taken place in this environment in recent years, see the possible recommendations for changes in authority, and whether the police are the way we want them to be, prepared to deal with more serious situations and serious crimes. Both the present Minister of Justice and the former Justice Minister have promoted the police in many ways and are important to the Board of Education and the Board of Education. There's been work done in this field, including to counteract organized crime, and it is only natural to consider whether we need to take further steps in this regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u9	Mr. President. There was a few discussions recently on the subject of a political debate and debate. Senators from here on the deck promised to behave well, or they said that they had never used a word talk that would be unappreciative. But now, a few weeks later, the Reformation is gone. Here last night, there was a speech going on as president, along with the Presidency Committee, which must consider the drawing of an entire body with a small brushbeard and all hairs on the left. That's not the situation, Mr. President. And it is not common for a whole assembly to be accused of an act that draws close to Jewish hatred, and this is coming from the mayor of the city who imposed a ban on Israel. How much hypocrisy can that be, Mr. President? And that's how, Mr. President, about the walk, the aimless people with their hands closed with their books in their pocket are going to teach us how to behave. Last night, a popu list of the single policy groups could not resist the opening of the same song as the moralal minister of social matters, who is recently exposed to the laws of Ministerhood and Congress. He joined in to paint this terrible council of Jewish haters and homophobic plungers, which are completely intolerable. Mr. President. This speech needs to be stopped now. The Presidency Committee and President, in reverse, need to take this matter into consideration and make sure that such a speech is not being held here at the General Assembly Hall. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u10	It is important that all be careful about what they say. The president did not comment on this talk, but his comments were somewhat deep on the subject of others who work at that workplace.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u11	A respectable president. To work or not work is not to be the question, but each person should have the right to work according to his ability, without the impairment or chain reaction. So, should we Icelanders be proud of all the social security systems, as the Secretary of Economics and Economics told me about the pension business last night? Should we be proud of the tax system and destroy a large group of poor and elderly citizens not only in poverty but in desperate straits? Should we be proud of the system as the highest. According to financial secretary, a huge step has taken almost every year in the past, so for example. since 2015, the provision of those who accept social security benefits has increased by an average of 25%? The ones who accept benefits from the social security system, says the highest. Secretary of finance. They're just common reform workers in his eyes, and they're supposed to be thanking the cost-growing reformers by 25% from 2015. He proudly says that this is remarkable progress in no longer any longer. Pension pay is legalized, and property supplies are savings, to the majority, capital gains. Other social security payments are acquired rights, not benefits. Twenty-five percent increase in 200,000 bucks. In a month it is 50,000, giving $250,000. a month before tax, it is well below poverty limits, very poor, by taxes. For a hired man with one million, that's $250,000, or the same number as the one that gets the benefits, the highest. Secretary of finance, to pay for taxes and impairment. The secretary of finance then says that the terms of those who had least of the hands, of those who receive social security, have improved rapidly in recent years. Their numbers improved faster than those who have more between their hands and still accept something from the social security system. Despair and senior citizens are receivers, reformers, at the administration of the state.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u12	A respectable president. I'm going to start by describing the satisfaction of a tie selection of the highest. President on the day of ashes. But another thing: The bitcoin-bol is now ever swollen as never before. But is this a bubble? At least many considered the Internet to be a pox, which has become an essential part of my life. Whether Bitcoin proves to be infested or not, there is no need for governments to panic and want to get a hold of Bitcoin or any other electronics and ban them. It is more reasonable that we ensure a clear, simple law code of laws throughout all our occupations. In answer to the highest. Secretary of finance for my inquiry since 2018, on the icicle. 1343, are the answers very well answered: Has the Ministry, or subsidiary, defined especially the characteristics of companies with electric coins, such as Bitcoin? What is the fundamental principle of the law of such a business, including in terms of tax and tax control? Would a minister consider a reason to do a business with electrical coins for further inspection? Of course, we should keep a close eye on this trend. If there's some holes in our laws when we're up against the flashmint, we'll have to deal with it. But do not be afraid, ordering, and bans as if it were our here to direct everything in the community. And what is it, a respectable president, when such mines should be banned because it is simply a waste of energy? At least the reduction is no greater than that the mineralmin electricity has increased by 75% since its New Year's Eve. The score is no greater than that the famous pioneers at Elon Musk, founder of the Tesseract, has bought the coin for about $1.5 billion and at least five companies on theune 500 list have done the same. Some people do not want our energy to be new in aluminium production. Well, then we'd be wise to use it in a data plant. Well, we all need digital clouds. But now we're suddenly going to say, " No, I'm not supposed to dig for a penny. ' President. I say no. Let people and businesses alone and trust them to do what they think best, within a clear code of law.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u13	V.E.G. President. On November 19, I sent a request to the Department of Transport for the cost of increasing the number of trips with the British Biodiversium for two trips each day from September 1 to May 31. Today, there are eight trips per week, two trips on Mondays and Fridays to meet the increased need for transport from the fish farm on the south side of the West. I received an answer on December 10 that the cost of such an increase in travel was about 208 million. K. In winter, we will be living in Flatey, but less than 198 million will be available in Flatey. V.E.G. President. I got a phone call yesterday where I was trying to get one extra trip today, Wednesday, because otherwise nine 40 tons of trucks would have to drive west through a ruined road in a Gufudal Squad, with the resulting damage road from stress. By midnight, there was an announcement that there was an extra trip today, so most of these trucks made the ferry cross the beach. There's been a lot of appeal for the recent increase in the number of trips with Bjöi immediately and a counter-reference for a new ferry that would take at least Ten trucks. We have to work fast on these things because the roads, as they show, are ruined there in a Gufudal Squad. At some point in the future it will improve, but it is not for the next few years, so this must be taken immediately. By increasing travel, this could be done immediately tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u14	Mr. President. For more than a year now, governments have been pointing out the nonstatutory subsidies of Iceland's e-mails, subsidies that stumble under the number of competitors across the country, leading to the loss of the company that the taxpayers pay. Factors that have an interest in business are designed to march between Pontíus Pilate and Heródes in order to experience only the inactivity and inactivity of the system. But the bandage is not missing. We have two Ministryes, two Ministers. There's two surveillance agencies, a military and telecommunications agency and the Contestant. Then there is political government over the company and finally the General. It is only hoped that they will be asked: " How many politicians are needed to run post - mail? ' And the answer is, Of course, none, especially politicians who are united in the system and opposed to business freedom. It is time to face the fact that the government's grip on mail service is a ghost of the past. We need to define professionally, in a transparent process, which mail service is the nature of the state's means to include conditional payments and then offer them services by strict, transparent regulations. Then let's let the market, all these fine companies who are running around the country, take care of the services of competition, and compete. It is the way we guarantee consumers the best possible service. That is how we should associate with a company rather than deliberately put a stone in their path, and that is how we stop associating with tax dollars in such an irresponsible manner as this service is. You see, a department of government affairs needs to be more than just a bill of elections every four years. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u15	The president now reminds us that they walked between Pontíus Pílatus and Pontius Pilate.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u16	No. His name was Pontíus Pílatus, and he went between him and Heródes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u17	Well, Heródesar. Then the president's incorrigibly out of memory and prays for favor. Heródes was certainly in the days when this happened.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u18	Mr. President. We've been proud to say that Iceland is a relatively peaceful and secure country. Of course, that is how we want it to remain. Yesterday, I spoke to the highest. The Minister of Justice on recent news of a disaster in this city and general concern is found in the community of the trends in the harshness that appears to be being being established in the subworlds of the city. People react naturally when such events occur, but the fact is, Mr. President, that this should not be surprising. Here from the General Assembly's symposium, I have repeatedly pointed to serious warnings from the state Marshal's intelligence department at the ever-growing risk of the rise of organized crime groups, often with foreign connections, e.g. in 2017 and again 2019. Also, in the spring of 2018, I had a special discussion about the subject. The clues have been in place. The risk has been identified. The report of the diagnostics is considered to be national security. The situation is serious and appears to have not responded sufficiently to the intended indications within the ranks of the police themselves. It seems that organized crime groups are growing on the edge of the river. What can we do? We can listen to the police's tips on these topics, expand them, and increase the number of police calls and increase police clearances to premeditated authorities in these matters so that they can deal with this deadly operation, and so it could continue to be counted. A lot of what? Councilmen have discussed police and organized crime today. So I think it's very important to take this matter for a special discussion here in the Generals sales and there's no need for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u19	A respectable president. It's been armed without electricity from the electrical power system since Sunday. A backup power of burning oil has provided electricity for the whole community of these days; Sunday, Monday, Tuesday; and today it is Wednesday. The line was damaged, and since then the risk of avalanches and weather has prevented repairs and still does. It's a terrible and unacceptable place, and it's in the middle of a fur business. It may be that nearly all the furs that are landed are involved in a lack of energy - consuming vegetation. Landsnet's website plans to place part of a weapons ground line alone in the ground of nearly 10 miles [10 km] of Hellish land where weather conditions are difficult, difficult, and dangerous, just in the area where the line is now broken. The Landsnet website estimates this portion of the line to be buried in the summer of 2021. The situation today shows exactly the importance of not delaying that program, to which it will be held. There's no weapons-line two because the power system is completely unsolved on the northeast corner, just like beyond. There is a lack of electricity in this area, and it has a potent inhibitory effect on the job life in the region and the environmental impacts of burning oil. A respectable president. This situation still reminds us that all communities must have access to sufficient and safe electricity, such as the Grinch, and the northeast corner, and beyond the bottom line, or end up in our electrical system.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u20	A respectable president. During the past few weeks, farmers and the free market spokesmen have communicated on the import of agricultural products and on how to get the best of agrienvironment schemes. It may be said that there are different views. Erna Bjarnadóttir economist has repeatedly pointed to the problem of importing dairy products, but somehow these products tend to be converted to the sea on their way from the mainland to Iceland. Normal cheese changes, e.g. in herbal cheese, etc. However, according to Erna's tip, it seems that the import of plant cheese has greatly diminished. That's really interesting. Let us now move to our products in the meat industry. An interesting discussion has been made about the course to take. In this terms, the candidates of the move have three times during this term provided the bill that the products of the carnivorous industry will be provided with annuity of 71rd. A livestock that allows the cooperation and cooperation of companies that work in this field. It may be said that not all agree on what course to take when we discuss the future of domestic food production. The above - mentioned Erna Bjarnadóttir has noted that there are similar leaves in Norway and in the European Union. When it comes to agriculture, many of the world's countries have viewed the need to give out certain rules about competition. A competition is a good thing, but let's get the competition on the basis of equality. The competition comes from the outside, and it directs the production of food markets. To cope with this modified world picture, farmers and businesses need tools to extract food.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u21	A respectable president. When discussing the interest of older ones, it must be borne in mind that a group of older citizens differs, as there are many individuals. Fortunately, most of the elderly are desirable. Those who are now entering retirement are a competitive group, the flower generation who wanted to change and stood before them; women's rights, increased right to study, child rights, and employment market rights. The rights that returned in the last two decades of the last century were revolutionary and were important. With improved human health, the nation grows older and continues to be able to enjoy life. Hence, it is normal for those who wish to continue in the job market to be able to do so. What's normal about putting it into law that the 67th anniversary is getting old? That may have been 50 years ago, but not today. There were also other criteria. At the age of 67 people gain privileges, but they also lose others. The struggle to improve the quality of retirement is not far from over. Those who have a good pension savings or who have had the opportunity to trust their means of living with savings or possessions do not have to worry about those years. However, there is a community group that enjoys ultimatums, especially women, but also men who have been in a low - paying market and could not secure their own housing as well as those who have not built up pensions. Is it possible to update or recruit the share loans for this group? These groups and especially those who receive pensions from the minimum wage will need to be considered. At this point, the decrease in pensions for employment and other revenues above the limit is 45%. The elderly cannot be leveled in a simple way, but as a group living in a crisis situation within this age group, the struggle continues.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u22	A respectable president. Iceland's Medical Association has now concluded that by moving research into the cervical cancer section to Denmark, important special jobs are being taken from the country. This is also the opinion of the Icelandic gynecologists and obstetrics, also of the case of research doctors, the opinion of the surgeon's office, and the majority of the advice for screening for cervical cancer. In the opinion of all these professionals, the minister went. These professionals share a common desire that all the parts of the screening process be conducted here. The results of 90% of the cervical samples sent to Denmark have not yet been obtained since the analysis was transferred to the health care facility. In the medical journalReynir Tómas Geirsson, former professor and head of the Women's Hospital, describes doubts about these changes in cervical and breast cancer. He fears that important knowledge will be lost here. V.E.G. During a discussion with this subject the other day, a minister said: "It can't be a matter of special interest where the vision is intelligent, but it can be accurate intelligence. It's a safety issue. Mr. President. This is a security concern, and it should not matter which task is done if the result is a professional and efficient service for all. However, it has become a matter of personal interest to strengthen the confidence that people and especially women have toward this system in view of how these changes have been under way. It's time for us to look into the matter, to revere grounds, and consequences. We have simply come to a place where trust has been read. The matter and the whole process therefore need to be examined so that trust can be restored.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u23	Mr. President. A summary of Northstack, a web report on innovation, reveals that last year's investment was 29 billion dollars. of 26 wands. Today, the editor noted that a large amount of money in innovation was not invested in new opportunities, but the money was spent in the continuing development of sceptres previously funded capitals. The money fund here is more and less fully invested, so it does not have the funds to put into new companies. These are good news and bad news, for business growth is being financed, but bad, because money to new enterprises is lacking. This tells us that it can't stand waiting for Kía, the Neon and sceptre funds to go into operation right away and it's actually incomprehensible how long it's taken. Minister of innovation to bring him into action, but the law was agreed in June last year. But more is needed. The setting of innovation must be very strong and predictable. As a step in this direction, we have provided the bill for the promotion of special favors of research and development, which were temporary in May. By this general means, there will be well - paid jobs in the companies. The company grows stronger, they increase the variety of jobs, resulting in the benefits to society through progress, taxes, and employment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u24	A respectable president. Yesterday, I spoke to the highest. Prime Minister on the crown's status. It is as if it was a surprise to the prime minister that I recorded it. They said I was here in politics. Yes, I'm in politics, a karymicopolitic, because it's a matter of public interest, not of special interest, which I think the government is defending. It is in our core policy of restoration to a stable currency by linking with euro or recording euro. No longer will it be for Icelandic homes, for jobs, for the welfare system, to live with a swinging currency and a swinging economy. When I asked if government ministers discussed the change that took place in the nation's financial affairs last year, the answers were, "Don't talk the crown down." Actually, it's an old bad phrase. On the contrary, I would like to thank the prime minister the faith that a miserable chairman of government opposition can speak down an entire currency. All right. Let it be between parts. But what matters is that we in this important legal court need to have a conversation. We need to have a conversation about why this transformation took place. And what are we talking about? We supported the financing of a government fund here in a country where there is no safety problem, inside our pet farm. No, the government is stepping outside because it has such great faith in the crown, taking foreign loans, not with big interest. But when have we Icelanders experienced a time free of luck? And I'd like to remind you that just last year, there was an increase in state funds due to a turnaround of 45 billion. [[The president calls.]] It's a matter of taking up this subject here, it's a huge interest for the Icelandic public, for Icelandic homes and families, but as well as how we're going, a respectable president, to protect our welfare system for a long time. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u25	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Sæmundsson came up earlier and complained about the criticism that I fell here yesterday to the Middle Party. During last night's discussions, I used films of minorities, such as gays and Jews, and that I should mention these photographs, apparently, went to the chest of the middle class and might not be surprised. I just wanted to come up here and tell you that I'm upset as a senator and a democrat that here's a call to silence members of the council for criticizing the Middle Party. I chose my words yesterday with zeal and precision. I'll keep them. I'll reiterate them. I'm not gonna apologize to you, and I'm going to let the Central Party correct what he thinks has gone wrong yesterday.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u26	A respectable president. I'm so glad we're legalizing this bill today. It is tempting to consider who made this statement or to work on it. I still want to thank the highest. Prime Minister for consultations with other members who have been involved in the media over the years. Then I'd also like to remind you that there was a bright future that set this issue on schedule at the time, and I'd mention it here because I rather strongly criticized that bill for the process, which should be thanked for where it comes from. But I would also especially like to thank those people in the community, mostly women, who are being subjected to the violence we are dealing with here and who had the courage and courage to perform this matter. The violence we are here dealing with is that people may be reluctant to speak openly of the fact that they are subject to it, that is, the nature of the offense. We must not forget the heroism needed to bring this matter to the fore on the part of the victims of the crime itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u27	Mr. President. I welcome this progress and celebrate the solidarity that is involved in this progress issue of sexual and sexual violence and harassment in a digital world. The bill we're doing here is based on extensive diagnostic work and consultation. And that is exactly what happened to them. A senator who spoke before me, there have been many who have given this matter their support, spoke for it, and fought for it here at a council hall as well as in the community. But this clearly shows the desire of the Generals to accept the darker aspects of technology and actually address sexual violence and harassment. I want to thank the highest, too. Minister of Justice for bringing this matter to an end successfully in consultation with the issue. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u28	True, that is not a roll call.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u29	Didn't I just explain votes?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u30	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u31	A respectable president. Thank you. A global and educational committee for her work on making this bill and all those who have been working on these changes. Of course, the law environment must primarily reflect the community in which we live, and it has not done so in the carrying of nude photos or threats, but it will do so after this legislation is approved. So I am very happy to see the tremendous support it is to be given here at the council. The view that the transmission of nude images involves spontaneous approval for the public distribution of the material is as archaic as that women publishing feminine self - image are bringing sexual harassment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u32	A respectable president. This is a good and very important matter that will address problems that have long been faced. It is a heavy social ill, with serious consequences to the life and well - being of those who suffer. I'm celebrating this in particular, and since I'm making an account for my vote, I definitely say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u33	It is good for members of Congress to state their firm support for the matter, whether they say yes or say it differently, but here is the electronic vote, so it is the button that counts.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u34	Mr. President. I recommend here on behalf of the Economic and Business Committee for Committee to Commission on bill to legalize the changing of the law on the operation of terrorism and the funding of terrorism, No. 140/2018. The brief version is this: The committee suggests that the bill will be passed on. Hv. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson was absent from the case. Under the heading "Birth of the Ages " Óli Björn's Kárason, Jóri, Jón the Steindór of Valmur, Brabbur the Valdimarsson of Níelsson, Bryndís the daughter of Haraldsdóttir, Oddný G.; Harðardóttir, the daughter of Ólafur, the Þór of Gunnarsson, the Smári son of Mccarthy, and Theri Þórarinn, the son of Ingi, the son of Pétursson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u35	Mr. President. I present a report by the Council of Europe by 2020. In some respects an unexpected project, let's say, but the report is about Iceland's activities before the European Parliament began, and my discussion of the nature of the matter will be fully devoted to it. The report is extensive and well put together, and I should thank her for it, and I'm impressed. Councilmen to study it. As the members of Parliament are aware, the main objective of the European Parliament was in 2020 the effect of a pandemic crown virus on the affairs of the European Council, democracy, human rights, and the legal rights. The Congress also discussed equality issues, cases of refugees, the effects of artificial intelligence, protests following the election of Presidents in the United States, and armed conflicts in Nagorno-Karabakah. The first meeting of the Council was held as a local meeting, but after the meeting in January 2020, meetings went to a telecommunications meeting and are still, although the council that was held in January has been held in some kind of hybrid form, a section of the council was present but part on telecommunications. The Iceland Department was generally active in the council, and its members were involved in a number of telecommunications committees. Hv. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir was a senior document on political prisoners in Azerbaijan at a meeting in January and again. paritaprevir Vosa Brynjólfsdóttir Bjork Brylfsdóttir was a senior authority report on an effective security system for children who are escorted in Europe at a telecommunication committee meeting in December. In addition, they were appointed prominent men for five more reports and were employed. As a matter of fact, the director of the World Health Organization Ghebreyesus Gheberesus addressed the Council's Committee for Directors and overcoming the global epidemic. In fact, Ghebreyesus returned to a conference, a teleportation, in January last year, and discussed the risks of what he has repeatedly called vaccine national policy and the importance of the world's countries meeting against the epidemic because the epidemic was never won until it was won everywhere. Since then, discussions over these subjects have continued and will no doubt be made up of them since this year. The war in Nagorno-Karabakh was also replaced by a board of directors at a meeting in October as well as other cases, and the actions of Turkish government against government opposition were discussed in that country. The major people in Iceland last year were nuts. The members of Rósa Björk Brynjólfsdóttir, Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Ævarsdótir and Bergþór Ólason, arrived at a number of meetings, most of them telecommunications, to form the meeting in January and a hearing in Paris in March. As the members of Parliament are aware, the nature of the discussion in the European Council is a matter of great concern on human rights, including the matter of refugees. During the last year of work, there was also some discussion of welfare, democracy, democracy development, and the status of the legal state. As I mentioned earlier, Iceland's members were very active this year, and I believe they applied for and over 50 meetings, and in some of them there were more than one member of the Iceland Department. I'm not going to list this much longer, but the report is extensive, and I strongly encourage members of the Parliament to study it. I'm going to the end of this year to thank the senior president of the Iceland Department for my good work in the past years before the Iceland Department, and I'm going to finish my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u36	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for history and killing on the European Parliament report. I'd like to take this opportunity to share a case that I'd like to share. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason has used us to discuss the war in Nagorno-Karabah last year. The war in Nagorno-Karabah, between Armenia and Azerbaijan, has a long history, or so that the Soviet Union began to end. On September 27, last year, another war broke out in Nagorno-Karabakh, the worst since 1990, resulting in a tragic loss and disaster. I saw this firsthand when I visited the area during the war. It cannot be summed up in words, Mr. President, how devastating wars are, and sooner, it is the civilian population that is going to be the worst. People who sought refuge in churches in Karabakh were not safe, since attacks were made on everything that happened, churches, schools, and hospitals. The human hope was absolute. Mr. President. I will never fail to witness such things. There is strong evidence that mercenaries from terrorist groups in the Middle East participated in the war and fought with Azerbaijan. That has even been true. Show from the mercenaries themselves who were taken into custody. They have admitted that they had been hired by the Turks and then moved to Azerbaijan and to the battlefield of the Turks. There is no obligation to hire mercenaries in international wars and international communities to oppose them. International treaties forbidding participation by mercenaries in wars include a 1989 international agreement that forbids mercenaries'recruitment, funding, and their training. The Azerbaijan and Turkey have made a commitment to the 1989 contract. There is also an appendix to the 1949 Geneva Convention. That Turks hired mercenaries, also terrorists, in order to fight with Azerbaijan soldiers in the war in Nagorno-Krabakh, is clearly a violation of international law. The United Nations has condemned the involvement of mercenaries in wars in a special resolution of No. 42 of September 26, 2019. The United Nations makes it clear that involvement in war - torn mercenaries is a threat to world peace, security, and human rights. The proposal we have proposed to the Council of Europe is that the Council of Europe appoints a special committee to investigate the role of mercenaries, terrorists from the Middle East, in the war in Nagorno-Karabakh, in behalf of Azerbaijan. If, in our suggestion, the Commission concluded that the European Council, Turkey and Azerbaijan, shall violate international laws and agreements in this regard. To say that, Mr. President, I thought it proper to bring this matter to the attention. This is a very important matter, and I hope there is a progress in the Council of Europe. At the end, I'd like to use this opportunity to thank the senior president of the European Parliament, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörðurdóttir, for a very good job and a very good cooperation. She's done a great deal of good for us in the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u37	Mr. President. The Council of Europe, and the Council of Europe, is one of the most important institutions involved in human rights, democracy, laws, and rules. We have been fortunate enough to have been member of the 1950 European Council and to enter our laws with many regulations and directives from the European Council, including the Istanbul Convention and other practical directives. During the past few years of the European Parliament's work, there has been an event, as expected, as was the effect of the pandemic crown virus on the topic field and on the work of the European Parliament, as in this year's entire international work of the General Assembly. However, in spite of the pandemic, I am very proud that the Council of Europe itself did not stop its activities but, contrary to the number of telecommunications, tried its best to function under the circumstances we have lived in for almost a year, the need for them to maintain the human rights of various groups of member countries has been very important. I also want to thank my warm words from the newly appointed head of the Iceland Department and also wish him all the best things he can do, even though the council may not have left him much. But I just want to touch a few things here that we at the Council of Europe and the Council of Europe have been dealing with over the past year, and that's not little things, but pretty big. It is quite remarkable to think that a year ago last meeting was held in Strasbourg, held on January 27 to 31, 2020. At that meeting was Rik Daems, a senator from Belgium and president of a group of liberals elected presidents of the council. As a senator who has a lot of ambition and efficiency for the Speaker, he immediately declared that he was going to visit all Member States, but because of a pandemic, there have been some changes. Nevertheless, the new president of the Council called for a new book on climate Treaty on Europe's European Convention and said that he would work hard to implement the Istanbul Convention for the remaining countries. But as we all know, the Istanbul deal is one of the most important documents in which we are involved, involved in a battle against sexual violence and domestic violence. I would also like to thank those members of the Parliament who have been most active in the work of the European Parliament. I would especially like to mention Thorhildi Ævarsdóttir Onvardsdóttir, who has served as chairman of the Council's Legal and Human Rights Committee during this period, and did so with respect. And I would also like to mention Birgir Þórarinsson, who, in his custodian position in the League, has acted when he has been able to do so. For example, Birgir participated in debates about election management in New York, where he participated in that surveillance, during the last January of the council, and Þórhildur Sunna was a senior guide for political prisoners in Azerbaijan. Last January, the European Parliament agreed to initiate an active monitoring with Poland's forwardness of its commitment to the European Council and not to be short-repeated as seen in the past few months where a large protest has taken place in Poland regarding the results of Poland's Supreme Court on the Istanbul Convention and the break-off of pregnancy. This has been the case with members of the Council of Europe and the Council of Europe and the Council of Human Rights and Human Rights of the European Council. A year ago, the Synod took special note of the position of the children who had joined the terrorist groups identified themselves in Islamic states. The decision of the Council, which is of great importance in my opinion and in my opinion as well as in others, was called upon by the European Parliament member countries to bring their children home without delay into the commitments of the countries to the European Council agreements and to the United Nations Children's Convention. Children were determined not to be responsible for their parents'decisions or circumstances. There, in a joint discussion of these conclusions, the European Council's member made known that commitments to children and rights were required by Member States. There were also some informative conclusions on how to take action against the tradesmen and sleeks and children on the move, the refugees, who have sadly disappeared in Europe and in the Member States, and who need to do a lot of research to find them. Then I would like to remind you that the last meeting of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament, where all the presidents of the United States, was held in Paris on March 6, so far. At that meeting a resolution was adopted on the battle against violence and discrimination against religious minorities among refugees in Europe. This case has come to pass in the hall of the General Assembly, where the one here has proposed a bill and a synonym on discrimination against religious minorities, and there we also need to understand the tremendous serious evolution that has taken place in the past few months. After this meeting in March, it was decided to meet with telecommunications. As I mentioned at the outset, it was successful. I believe, of all the international committees of the Parliament, the European Parliament's Iceland Department was most active in the telecommunications work and is well pleased, and I am very pleased with it. We discussed the effects of Covid, for instance the effects of domestic violence, mental violence, and even violence when it comes to access to health care, violence, and restrictions about women's access to pregnancy breaking and how Covid-19 has been adversely affected, of course, by rights. I would also like to remind you of what the current chairman mentioned in his background address. The director of the World Health Organization came to our meeting on June 26, 2000. I was able to ask him, Tedros Ghebreyesus Ghebereus, about the effect of the pandemic on refugees and immigrants, and asked him to consider further warnings from the strains due to the increase in Europe's infection. Thus, Ghebreyesus responded with great respect and skill, and those who have guided the World Health Organization in the amazing conditions that have already existed worldwide have shown extraordinary skill and good reflexes and control, especially with regard to human rights and the access of all of us to health care. I could list endless conclusions here. White Russia's topic has been very important this year as well as the conflict between Azerbaijan and Armenia. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's children mentioned in their speech. The Congress has taken a firm step, both to condemn the situation in the Republic of Russia and to promote peace between the warring states of Azerbaijan and Armenia. I'd also like to finally, Mr. President, sincerely thank you for the time I've achieved being president of the European Parliament of Iceland. I am very proud of Iceland's Department, and I am very proud of the extent to which we have been inside, and this has led to our having been entrusted with confidential work at the European Parliament. [[The president calls.]] I say again and again, we should talk more about everything we do at the European Parliament and give more attention to this in our work and in our community. [[The president calls.]] After that, I also wish a new chairman a good success in all our activities. [[The president calls.]] In Iceland's chairmanship of the Council of Europe, exciting times are ahead of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u38	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for a fine review of the work of the Committee and the Council of the European Parliament last year. Clearly, there is much knowledge and experience involved. But I'd like to take this opportunity to ask you why. A senator, in view of the fact that now we're looking ahead and Iceland has a prehuman role, anyway. A senator envisions something special that could be added either to the Council of Europe's organization, or to the Council of Europe, or in the manner in which Iceland is introduced to both the Parliament and the Council of Europe as a whole. Although it is an important institution, and it is really unappreciated, nothing is perfect and always an opportunity to improve. I know it may be a bit hard to try to get such a short answer to such deep information, but it's at the Committee to Re-Elect. ; and, footnotes, page 22; and, footnotes, page 233. October, which I know. A senator sat, discussing conclusions and recommendations on democratic control of artificial intelligence, the use of artificial intelligence in the jurist system, and the discrimination in artificial intelligence. I don't know if it's practical, but I could do it. A senator might have rejuvenated some points about what was at the top of it? These are clearly things where we should be on guard.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u39	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. The short answer to the first part of the question is yes, that there are surely things to be improved when it comes to our participation in the work of the Council of Europe, i.e. to add to the council, to reduce the limit to the participation of members of the Committee, which brings us much. And because we have a chairman who now conducts a meeting and serves as the head of a committee that deals with the International Work of the Parliament and weighs it and measures it, I want to direct the question to the President. I think that we who have been in the European Parliament's Iceland Department can suggest good things for that work. Regarding the second part of the question of artificial intelligence and its impact on the European Council's issues, it is true. A senator points out that at a meeting last October, we approved seven reports on the use of artificial intelligence and its impact on the topic field, i.e. Human rights, democracy, law and order. When we agree with a report, we are usually accepting a report that takes between one and a half years to negotiate and suggest, so to agree with seven reports is an enormously efficient task and also shows that the European Council has done a tremendously good job when it comes to artificial intelligence and the present supply of artificial intelligence to human rights. There's something we need to take more to ourselves and talk more about, and I think we should go. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy would be perfect for that discussion, i.e. on the contact areas of human rights and artificial intelligence. I also think Iceland can pick up this European Parliament's trial fountain when it comes to artificial intelligence and we should do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u40	Mr. President. Yes, I can indeed agree that, of course, the key to our participation in foreign cooperation is that there are no restrictions on how much senators can participate, and that makes eye contact if you are saying, "We're supposed to be involved, but we're not supposed to be too involved, perhaps only part of a meeting. I know that it has often been a problem to be allowed simply to attend more meetings, even for executives and other important roles in the Council of Europe. It's not good, it's an ambitious attitude on our part that we never want to show. It also shows that we place this international class too little priority. Fortunately, I have not been exposed to this in the EFTA Committee, but there may be less to do there than in the Council of Europe. As for artificial intelligence, and to make sure I understand it, the report says that both conclusions have been made and suggestions - am I mistaken? Is this really a petition to be approved, or are these final reports being prepared? I can't figure it out. I've never been in the Council of Europe, and I don't quite understand what things are like there.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u41	Mr. President. The reports adopted by the Council of Europe have a relatively long turn of events. First, a form of plagiarization proposal is adopted for signing a specific number of members of a panel to continue that job on the committees. Then the professional work is carried out by discussions, also in the conference halls and votes, both in committees and in the Assembly Hall. There's a lot of work that's behind it when the reports are approved. The reports are also adopted after this massive process, this great democratic and professional process because the Council of Europe and the Council of Europe have tremendously professional and cool experts, extremely good. I mention, because we're talking about the artificial intelligence, Jan Kleijssen, which is over the artificial intelligence, and has been doing amazing things, especially when connecting the artificial intelligence into human rights, into democracy, etc. The European Parliament has also been in a good relationship and cooperation with the European Union when it comes to artificial intelligence, and I have to say that when it comes to these issues, we are very far behind, whether in discussion, legislation or knowledge of artificial intelligence, its impact and the speed of identification at present. I encourage members of Congress who are here or who listen to this discussion to familiarize themselves with the work that the European Council has at the time of artificial intelligence. I know that the prime minister has a group of work men to discuss the effects of artificial intelligence, and it has a wide experience bank and a rich garden to pay when it comes to the Council of Europe and the work there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u42	A respectable president. I present a report by the International Parliament before 2020. The report is on the deck. 825. There, the committee's work is done well, aided, the meetings held. I'm not going to trace it from word to word. I'm just going to refer to it. The International Parliamentary Union, so that you will review it, is the 179th Reich Assembly but added to its 13 regional members. In other words, Iceland is one of those councils. Iceland has been involved in the International Parliament, but the relationship's focus is on the human rights and purposes of the Union as a fundamental element of democracy and Congress. Then the International Parliament's special aim is to support the National Assembly and help with the development of democratic work reactions within them, and there is no need for a number of member states, some of which are not democratically elected. The International Parliament Union presents two conferences each year. One in the spring, held in one of the EU's member states, is that of an autumn assembly that has always been held in Geneva. As with other international activities of the International Assembly and other international conventions in the world, the work has been marked by the pandemic, not by a meeting, but by telecommunications. It is this way from Iceland that the National Department of Iceland called on the membership of the International Parliament, where three representatives from each national division sit, and, of course, the same applies in Iceland. Besides me, the Iceland Department's orders. Councilmen Ágúst Ólafur, son of Ágústsson, who has been vice president, and Sigmundur, Davíð Gunuga's Gunnlaugsson. We've had criminals. Councilmen of Bergþór Ólason, Helga Vala Helgadóttir and Jón Gunnarsson. I'm just going to go for a big one about the meetings that have been held. The International Parliamental Union itself holds two meetings a year at the council. In addition, areas have remained together, perhaps forming small subsidiaries, and Iceland, of course, has organized themselves with the Norwegian Parliaments. Last year there were two Norwegian conferences, as it has been every year, to review the issues of the upcoming council. It has often been the case that the Norwegian countries have conformed to their stand on certain matters. Last year, in 2020, Denmark took the lead in these Norwegian consultations. So there were two such meetings, and they were held electronically. I could, for example, tore it here and tell you that these Norwegian conferences, the people I've been sitting with, may have become overly concerned with the work that lies ahead of us in the International Parliament and so technically. I stressed that, in those meetings I have attended, it was specifically discussed, and the scene was specifically used, this Norwegian setting, to discuss the pandemic in particular, and how the Assembly in these countries were dealing with the epidemic in view of human rights and democratic rights and duties that members of the Parliament have in our ideal democracies. The first such meeting following the pandemic took place on June 8, where it was tore. The second meeting, this Norwegian, was held September 1st, with a little discussion going on. It is as if in this worldwide work, you would like to have someone make your coat over others. In addition to the Norwegian cooperation that Iceland and I have, Iceland has also taken part in a national partnership called 12, plus, and the European Union is all in addition to Canada and some other countries, Israel and some other countries; countries that view them as being united in culture and democratic evolution. For these twelve plus plus group, a certain Portuguese who planned to make himself available as president of the International Parliament. At such a Norwegian conference held in September, the Norwegian states discussed whether they should agree to support one candidate above another. It is so informal and unwritten in this international community that the Presidency runs between countries, and it was up to this area that the 12 plus the group, Europe, Canada and Israel, are involved. They choose as their conscience commands them, but it turned out that the chairman of the twelve plus the group, Duarte Pacheco, gave up and was the candidate group for the President of the International Assembly. There were a number of meetings to discuss these matters technically back and forth. The International Parliamentary Association early made the decision to hold only this great assembly, almost the main meeting, or a council meeting, as it is called, the International Parliamentary Union of 1,◯4. November 2020. The decision was made to keep it electronic. For the purpose of a new president's approval, an investment was made, in view of the discussions all over the matter, for large amounts of money in an electronic election system that was tested and confirmed before the vote. It was exemplary in the way it was being conducted and perhaps to imitate for other international organisations in this area to use telecommunications in this way, and when it comes to voting on some matter to use an electronic election system so that some travel may be reduced. It is often in this international community to vote for a few, and perhaps not very remarkable things, though it was in this case, the elected president of the Union, which no doubt can be used through electronic elections to reduce unmarkable meetings in real worlds. There were others who made a move in the Presidency, but it turned out that in November last year, the 12 candidate plus the group in Iceland, Duarte Pacheco of Portugal, was elected by the President of the International Parliament. At a meeting of twelve plus the group shortly before, a newly elected senator was appointed for the 12 plus group, a Dutch senator, Arda Gerkens, who is now leading the Iceland and the rest of the northern countries. In itself, I don't have to have this much further. The International Parliamentary Union is an interesting field for members of Congress to meet with members of the Parliament from all parts of the world. It is what may distinguish the International Assembly from another international work that the International Parliament is involved in, that its members have the opportunity to connect and address with members of the Parliament from all parts of the world, and to bring matters into the program in various professional groups in the Union, education, equality, health matters, and anything. In this regard, each of the reasons and issues that will be the most urgent in this cooperation often depend on increasing democracy and increasing human rights, the sharpening of the relationship, and the role of our members from developed democracies to uphold the views that have been successful in economic, social, and cultural success in all areas. I would like to end the report, because it says that the International Assembly concluded a number of issues in 2020, including the pandemic. Of course, that could not be avoided. It is an excellent conclusion that a health - care counseling group stated on the role of members of the state in this pandemic particularly, stressing that the National Assembly will provide a response to the pandemic, in this particular case of the Korean virus epidemic, while at the same time monitoring the government's decisions should be taken in a moderate measure and the protection of human rights and so on in the streets. It is also obligatory to consider and represent all those who face the effects of a pandemic. It is not merely to focus on those infected with this particular infectious disease; it is the responsibility of the Congress to view the whole result of the epidemic and the action taken by the outbreak; to monitor fully on the effects of government action. I have in my prehuman existence, and in the meetings I've had with the Norwegian coal and these twelve plus group, as I mention it specifically planned, and have mentioned that it has puzzled me that it has not been planned for a planned location in the program of all these meetings to discuss the specific roles and activities of the Congress in the epidemic. A respectable president. I'll have this review over the report, but I'll just refer to it the way it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u43	Mr. President. I wanted to ask a few questions about some of the points mentioned in the report. The first is what is stated here in a third paragraph of the report that all members of the Member States were invited to participate in telecommunications and are being referred to as a number of telecommunications concerning the pandemic and influence on various issues. Am I correct in understanding that this refers not only to senators who are members of the International Parliamentary Department but to all members of Congress? If so, it would be intriguing to know whether this was somehow introduced to members of the general Parliament. I haven't seen it yet, and I'm wondering if it's just a misunderstanding that all members of Congress are involved or if there's some kind of handman involved that they've forgotten to deliver everyone here at the General Assembly. I would also like to ask: There are some statements from the President of the International Parliament, which are listed in the rest altogether. Now I know that the President's declarations are not binding at first for the Congress, but they reflect important political issues at one time. There are especially two statements that I wanted to get some sort of piece of a piece at each. A senator if possible. On the one hand, it is about the situation in Malibu and the elimination of nuclear weapons because the rest of the matter tells itself a little bit. There may be a number of factors in the other two cases and may be curious to know what it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u44	A respectable president. As for a meeting held by the International Parliamental Association, or as part of a group, there is a World Health Organization and the United Nations, I think it is safe to say that it is safe to refer to all members of Congress. I don't know how it's been advertised for members of Congress. Of course, this is also held by the United Nations, so that reports about this may disappear into the sea - so many conferences are held. I'm sure I'm referring to the fact that all members of the Parliament can participate in these UN meetings. I believe that a great number of UN conferences last year have been open to all. However, it is good to include only in that study and to review only the attention of the members of the country at various conferences held and offered to others but only to members of the Parliament who participate in that matter. Of course, there are many, and I think that this is exactly what they have been doing during our telecommunications last year. There is good reason to examine it. A respected president who now serves as president of the United States may be able to consider this in the work he has in mind these days. With regard to the reports, I have to admit that I do not know the exact statements. I know them about the pandemic, Covid, but I could even assume that this is not the U.S. President's statement about the pandemic, but that's what the Subcommittee has to do with the situation in Mali or the elimination of nuclear weapons. Unfortunately, I cannot accurately comment on their subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u45	Mr. President. I appreciate those answers. Granted, it is surprising that such invitations do not exist. There's a lot of meetings, just standing by. It's part of the senator's job. However, it is very rare for some meetings to fall in that may appeal to certain members of Congress and when offered, especially by members of a body like the International Parliament's Association, to ensure that they are recognized by members of Congress. I have attended recent years of telecommunications established by the Gavi World Health Organization. The Gavi organization has nothing to do with the council, they had no obligation to invite me or anyone else to the meeting. But am I supposed to believe that Gavi is more successful in ensuring the entrance of Icelandic senators to such an open meeting than the International Parliamentary Union and the Iceland Department? I think there's gotta be something we can do better here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u46	A respectable president. I'm sure you can ask members of the Parliament to send a meeting to more members than a representative of the Iceland Department, but I'm sure that's worth it. On the other hand, I would recommend that men be able to sign up on a mailing list. I think very many members of Congress, or those interested in international work, are on the United Nations mailing list, even with other institutions, and are being offered all kinds of events. During periods of time, a person may not be able to explain the matter of drowning members in all kinds of invitations at conferences and meetings. I have not personally attended the meetings established by Iceland's Department in cooperation with the World Health Organization or the United Nations, not one of the many telecommunications referred to there. It's not because they've missed me, I've seen some of these events advertised, they've just not intrigued me, and I haven't felt that the material applies to the discussion here, as much interest as I've had in the discussions about the pandemic and that exactly is why the International Parliament Union is giving more attention to it and to the Congress of the Member States. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator has not missed his train. I think there's more meetings and he'll probably have the opportunity to attend this telecommunications meeting and many more in the next semester. But I agree with his view that there would be a better summary for members of the council so that they can figure out what's going on over the next few weeks or so, the progress in those projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u47	Mr. President. I would like to comment on the committee in which I am in and maybe expand the discussion and talk about international matters in general. As the chairman of the Committee handled well earlier, the International Parliamentary Association is quite remarkable. In fact, at the international level, there is not much about socializing based on the National Assembly. The International Parliamentary Union is an old phenomenon of about 180 national conventions. I first shared in their work 14 years ago, and I know that relationship quite well. Also, countless Icelandic senators have been actively involved in the work of the relationship. We who observe international affairs see this - and we should, in fact, do so much more and much more in this room. I miss a little, and it's not like anyone or anybody's fault, that we don't take more of a deeper discussion on international matters. We'll see, for example. that when it is done, it may always be the same members of Congress. But all right, we're going to do our business. I think it was so important for the Icelanders as a small nation to take an active part in international affairs. As a small nation, we rely on international and international communication regulations. We cannot rely on strength or size, so it is so important that Icelanders are immediately involved in international cooperation. There should not be some perimeter that we're dealing with as side effects. For the Icelanders and for the little nations, it's a big deal. It could even be a matter of life and death. As we know about history, we know the importance of international and international benefits, as it were, to be respected and respected, especially when the big countries pay attention to their own interests at the expense of other countries. We can also see that there are many solutions and challenges on a global scale, and we solve those problems only cross-border. International problems require international solutions. The most outstanding example today is the virus. The virus does not respect borders. It is amazing to observe the solidarity of the entire world, the scientific community across borders, between institutions, universities, etc. and the interaction of the private sector and the public sector in fighting the virus. When we return together, the human family will have success. But it is not just in the field of health that we need to reverse. I'd like to present some other lawsuits here. The environment, of course, requires a cross-border solution and particularly under the direction of international institutions. Here, whether in the United Nations or in the United Nations, the International Parliament, such as we speak here, or just all the other battles, must turn around and focus on taking steps that are important. It is empty to talk about if individual countries or individual continents, if they are gone, will take responsibility for this, but the rest will not. All mankind has to do is focus on us as mankind. We're one of humanity and our planet is in danger. She's literally in danger. The standard for living and the quality of life of our children and our grandchildren are directly at risk compared with the state of the environment. When we focus on environmental challenges together, we have been successful. As I was growing up, there was a lot of talk about the ozone layer. Senators of my age and older know that it was a real danger. The International Union was successful, precisely by public rule, when it came to controlling the instruments and chemicals that were building a hole in the ozone layer. It's just an excellent example that when we win international goals, we get international results. Another thing I'd like to draw out is the environmental refugee problem. It is a challenge, of course, that we need to focus much more on. That problem will only grow from year to year. It has to do with other factors where we have to be successful together, and that is just peace. There are still many conflicts on earth, many of which do not even find their way to the news anymore. It should be of interest to all of us to promote greater peace in the regions of war. Our battle for human rights; we have long considered that human rights are absolute. They're not specific, they're absolute. I have long felt this way, and I think a lot of senators believe, that the international community needs a lot of money to get involved when governments violate its citizens. We cannot ignore any government or president or prime minister who violates his subjects and the human rights that all of us have. We can't sit next to each other. Grief examples in history show this, as did Rwanda. I'll take that as an example. We already have a conflict in which the international community needs to interfere. The Yemen is a good example, as it is today. We're never supposed to feel like fascist. We should never feel that people live in violations of human rights, violence, imprisonment, etc. This is very important. The International Parliamentary Union - again to this phenomenon that we address here - is precisely involved in the imprisonment of members of Congress. It's just the terrible art you get at these conferences that you cover countries where senators are directly imprisoned for their jobs. Can you imagine, it's so far away for us here? We can criticize this blessed government as if it were no tomorrow, but we do not think that they would imprison us. But that is the reality of some of our colleagues out in the great world. Mr. President. I want to continue to present challenges that require international solutions. Inflexible is one of them. Uneven chess threatens balance. Injustice is not only unfair; it is also dangerous for the community. As the gap between the rich and the poor grows, it creates danger. Besides, of course, we should have the ideologies to raise as many as possible out of poverty. This is the problem we see in many parts of the world, this increase in property balance. All we see is these enormous numbers. Individuals have become virtually richer than nations. Can you imagine? In what way are we, and what sort of system do we have if a person can grow richer than the whole kingdoms, even exerting power in harmony with them? This is a challenge that we need to round up, whether it's cutting off a tax field or just bringing in a fair and balanced game code. We see that this is not the case. This is the classic battle between special interest and public interest that we know so well from this room. International Business - I am a great internationalist and I believe that the more business between countries is the better, the more our interests get together, the better. I don't think we're supposed to jump in the fence and build customs in the name of any other goal, whether it's called food security or something like that. I think it's much more reasonable that international business is here at all. Of course, care must be taken to ensure that the interests of the people of this system are being pursued, but as international commerce grows, the nations usually fare better. An assault on our computer systems is also a challenge that crosss borders. It also requires that the international benefit we are talking about responding in agreement, that this matter really matters. We rely so much on computers, communications and communication. It's all very fragile when it comes to assaults of any kind, whether by governments or by gangs. Finally, I would like to mention a group that interests me, and perhaps it would be Spanish. It's animal protection. No kidding. Animal protection is here. Why do I mention it? Of course, it is important that we stand for the variety of animal life. We owe it to the earth and to the future generation. But I'm going to end the words I opened at the beginning. What are we struggling with today? We are dealing with a virus that spread from an animal to man because of an abnormally high level of association in certain parts of the world. That's why I want it connected. We are dealing with a virus, and unfortunately it is not the last virus unless we change the way we approach animals and humans. Many of the worst epidemics come this way, whether it's a bird flu, a pig's strength, or a Covid-19. It's important. It's touching all of us. Something that happens on distant markets in Asia has a direct effect on us today in small Iceland. This virus epidemic is a good example of this, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u48	Mr. President. It is important that we take time to review the international cooperation that the Parliament and the Parliament have in behalf of us because this may not always be the first thing people think of, that we are in cooperation with the other people and these very important issues. I have long served as a spokesman that we should expand this cooperation because international decisions affect the overall interest of Iceland as an independent sovereign state and our emphasis on the human rights and rights of people and our rights to our own decisions. I'm gonna skate on the U.S. OSE report. As a matter of fact, I don't care about the Democratic and Human Rights Committee, but it's where our good partner sits, why. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, who will cross it. At the centre of the European Council of Security and Cooperation, the SE, as we call it, there may be a high level of debate over the challenges that the Korean virus has created for the Council and its activities, and, of course, the response of the Member States to the epidemic. Then there was an armed conflict in Nagorno-Karabakh and protests following the election in the United States. In Vienna in February, the ASE Parliament's winter meeting was a custom, and it found that unsolved conflicts in the ASE region, Ukraine, Georgia, Nagorno-Karabakah, and Transnistria, banned other functions of the United Nations. Unfortunately, Mr. President, we have to admit that these are old-fashioned names, old-fashioned problems we are dealing with, and some older than others. It is safe to say that much of this was a so - called frozen argument, as it is called in a foreign language, ◯frrozen conflicts. Yet, there has been a period of cease - fire after civil conflicts broke out in Nagorno-Karabah. But as it turns out, who will appear to be, when peace is established, and what will be discussed? At the very least, the war that broke out with assistance even. The Russians who took advantage of it. The ODIHR Institute of Human Rights and Democracy was active as Captain Sólrún Gílún Gísladóttir discussed at the annual meeting exactly what was going on there. After a pandemic crown virus spread to the SE Parliament, the decision in April was first issued to cancel the annual meeting held in Vancouver, Canada, in June. The Council of SE is such that conclusions agreed on at the council meeting should be made with a hearing for the members of the council. The same is true of the election of the president and the vice president of the council. Thus, in 2020, there were no conclusions adopted or elected by the council. By the end of the year, a plan was presented for changing the rules of action to enable the SE to cope with conditions like these in the future. The Council's Office and the Council's Special Committee for Staff of the Council were criticized for the lateness of the proposals. Of course, the SE election watch and ODIHR were limited during the year because of strict disease control rules. There were a number of dissuades. In the beginning of April, the council's office began to collect information on the impact of the epidemic in Member States and spread to members of Congress. The Parliament's summary office discussed a number of infections, a state of emergency, economic actions, electronic surveillance, border closure, etc. These information will be precious in the future if we want to compare our actions with what we can learn. However, they were just as precious at that time as they did not tire of accessing index data and information on different measures. The office did pretty good on this, so I'm gonna say it. The office also used the WhetsApp, I don't know the Icelandic name of it, I just call it a chat program, where information was exchanged and brief meetings were held. There was a nice flow of information there. There were various websites, including the pandemic and its influence on various SE classes, and various experts called in. During discussions at the Commission meetings at the end of the year, the importance of international cooperation and solidarity was identified by the epidemic. On page 18. 2 is a chapter called the General for the SE Council. I'm not going to spend much time with him, but the European Security and Cooperation Agency, OSE, operates on the basis of the Helsinki finals from 1975. This Helsinki complex committed Member States to improve cooperation, respect national boundaries, and ensure national rights. Legally, the final arrangement is not a standard covenant, not established by the legislators of the peoples who signed it. Is this therefore different from other international institutions in this regard, yet, this statement is very important in view of the work of the SE Council. The role of the SE Council is to influence policy development and focus in the work of SE and to monitor and assess the results of the Agency's activities. The conference's topic committees work to prepare conclusions. They are then provided at annual meetings and presented with the SE Minister of Ministers, the department of Foreign Ministers of the Member States and the Book of SE, who owns ambassadors or regular representatives of the Member States against the SE. The OSE council is meeting for a annual meeting for up to five days in July. Individual Member States shall have a annual meeting. As I said earlier, a recent annual meeting was not held because of the crown virus epidemic. Then a winter meeting is held in Vienna and then a fall meeting. It has been customary for the winter meeting in Vienna, while the autumn meeting is held in the Member States. I think it's about time, Mr. President, for Iceland to take over and ask that our fall meeting be held in Iceland as soon as possible. Iceland has a lot to offer. Iceland is an active member of this international partnership, whether in the ESE or in the European Parliament and elsewhere. It would be an honor to offer this assembly here, and I know it is, and it's been a few years of interest to the man who's been running ASE from day to day for the meeting in Iceland. That's why I think there's a reason to mention it here. The report reviews how all of this works, what the President can do, etc. In the Iceland Department, there's three of us, the one that says, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir and Guðmundur Andri Thorsson. Guards are Sigurður Páll Jónsson, Birgir Ármannsson, and Logi Einarsson, a secretary who Bylgja the Year's Árnadóttir of an international secretary. I'm a member of the Committee on Security and Political Affairs, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir on Economic, Scientific, Technical, and Environmental Affairs and The Guðmundur of Andri Thorsson, under the Committee on Democracy and Human Rights. Now I've considered just how the meetings work, when they meet, and so on. The Winter Summit was held in Vienna in 20,◯21. February, just before Covid left town. There we attended the complete meeting of three with Bylgja international secretary. Of course, the world's position of security was discussed, pointing out then president George Tsereteli, from Georgia, that it had been 30 years since the age of change had passed over the continent, and the Soviet Union was about to fall. Of course, many other matters were discussed at that meeting, and what a remarkable talk there! It is common for guests to attend these meetings and talk about special matters. It held a debate over the struggle against Jewish hatred, discrimination, and a lack of tolerance. Was it Andrew Baker, rabbi and special representative of the Chairman of OSE in the battle against the Jewish hart, who did so. It was a very important discussion, and I think it can be watched on the Internet. At a meeting of politics and security, a address was made by a man named Neil Bush, chairman of the ASE Committee for the Issue and Ambassador of Britain at SE. He spoke of terrorism and the fact that the public, and not just the public, most people worry about terrorism, and it's important to understand the threat and the underlying threat and how especially young men join violent groups or groups. The economic, scientific, technological and environmental committee listened to comments from The ambassador of Serbia at ÖSE, Vuk Zugic, who is directing the work of SE on economic and environmental matters. There was also a special discussion on the impact of climate change on the security and the role of members of Congress. There was a special agent, Torill Eidsheim, who is Norwegian, who has been very concerned and is a very powerful representative of us who are concerned about climate change, and especially in the north. Along with these meetings, I had a side event and had the privilege of conducting an interesting meeting on the results of the unique history of the SE Parliament of the murder of Boris Nemtsov. As many know, this powerful Russian despot was killed in Russia on an evening march home from a restaurant in the middle of Moscow City. At least, some questions, if not enough, still remain unconcerned about that murder. A report produced by Margareta Cederfelt from Sweden was very interesting to review. On May 25, 2020, a meeting was held between the Northern and Baltic States, a so-called NB8 meeting in the SE Parliament, where we participated and took part as needed. Then, July 7th, a board of directors was held. where the Haraldsdóttir of Gamald was taken as vice president for the one standing here. These meetings are attributed to the report. I'm going to give you a point that really matters. This meeting took place, including In the matter of Andreas Nothelles, a special representative of the SE Council, of OSE, i.e. The Minister's Bathing and all that, with the fact that a certain leadership took place, the recruitment period for four top officials of ASE ended in mid - July, i.e. in the previous year, and was not a unit of extending the recruitment period of all people. Sadly, among them some countries opposed the continuation of Ingil Sólrún Gísladóttir in the office of the head of the Democratic and Human Rights Agency (ODIHR). It was a little special that men resorted to refusing to extend the recruitment period of this executive who was there. One who is tempted to take this opportunity because it was impossible to meet, could not be sat down, and could not be fully reasoned on why they wanted to go this way because it all happened at some telecommunications. If so, perhaps they had the courage to step forward in such a strange way. On November 9, 2020, a meeting of the Northern and Baltic States was again held within the SE Parliament, i.e. NB8 meeting. The next meeting, then the winter meeting, was being prepared and discussed changes in rules and such. All of them were telecommunications, of course. On November 12, I had a meeting of directors, which was quite a good visit. David Beasley, secretary - general of the United Nations Food Programme, addressed the Management Board, including in view of the fact that the Agency received the Nobel Nóbel for Peace 2020 for its efforts in fighting hunger. It was very interesting to listen to this fine man and capable executives review how much it is that we give the well-riched countries support, including the rest of the world. The Food Agency to help others. Besley's case Beasleyr that when a pandemic of crown virus broke down, 130 million people in the world had been at the brink of famine. But by November last year, this figure was up to 207 million. So we immediately see the impact this epidemic has had on the needy and the needy. We need to keep that in mind. Then I'd like to mention that last year, the then president, George Tsereteli, did not receive a vote for Georgia's Congress and, as a result, quit being president of OSE. In addition, Peter Bowness, who has been working a long time in this business and taking in a review of all of the non-silent regulations in which representatives of 57 countries would agree on how to vote or hire places and so on. I have to say, he's shown a great deal of hard work, and he's done his best in the British. I'm here to mention that Peter Bowness, chairman of the Council's Council of Staff and Work, introduced a plan of new regulations on the activities of the Council during an emergency. This was one of the things they called after, of course, including Because it was not possible to choose. The Law included the Law covenant. that a annual meeting could be held with telecommunications as long as the Commission declared a state of emergency. In a case such as now, when the Korean virus epidemic has covered the inhabited earth, the SEH or the management committee would have had to declare a state of emergency, for then we could have held our annual meeting and chosen to be in office and hold one of the annual meetings that can be held through the net. But I would like to use this opportunity, Mr. President, and say that such a meeting is generally very undesirable to hold online, so to be said, because it is very important to have a conversation directly with the person we think we need to talk to or to have someone to talk to. I reiterate that there may be more exorbitant issues if they are not discussed face - to - face. Mr. President. Then comes the final page of this report. Roberto Montella announced that the president would likely have to step up, as mentioned earlier. In the United States, last November 30th, a meeting of the Northern and Baltic States was held. but there's another meeting on the couch soon. There we found, including of activity in general during this time of a pandemic crown virus, particularly in the process of changing procedures presented and submitted by Lord Peter Bowness. I must take this opportunity to thank my comrades on this committee, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson and Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, for their good cooperation, and, like the Bylgja of the Árnadóttir's Daughter, for carrying the weight of this report and following us and taking notes on these many meetings that follow this work.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u49	Mr. President. I thank the chairman of the SE Parliament for his history here and introductory presentation of the annual report. There's a lot of interesting things in this report, including... How much trouble the SE Council has now experienced during the district conventions of Congress and found. I stopped there, on both the extension of the President and the vice president of the ASE Parliament, representing the Norwegian and Swedish states, and also on the basis of the failings of the SE Parliament's regulations that it is not possible to vote for office without a annual meeting in which members of the Parliament are in person. Also, what Nothelle Nothelle, a special representative of the SE Council, arrived at a telecommunications committee meeting on July 7, 2020, last year, i.e. ... thatESE was faced with a leadership problem. There are quite large words dropped, and they may have been tested in Aseri's remarks and Testimony during the extension of Harlems Déshir's Désir as well as the representative of the Tadsakistans, who made a comment about the extension of the reigns of Ingibjörg Sólrún's Gísladóttir. I'd like to hear a little more from what happened. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson - and I'm obliged to agree that I agree to have a meeting here in Iceland, I think it's an excellent idea, and think we should use it - of why ESE has obviously had such a difficult time to hold out meetings and work really when the Council of Europe has reached a meeting, vote for a new office manager, development of the Council of Congress, etc. [[The president calls.]] True, it has been a problem with democratic discussions. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to hear more about this in a case or something. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u50	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. Yeah, you're right next door. A senator made comments on the extensions of the council presidents and vice presidents. It plays a few episodes. First, it plays into that very likely some were interested in volunteering to these offices but saw that it could not happen at this time. Second, questions were raised about whether the board and the office could, according to the council regulations, be extended to the bodies of the members. Third, we came to realize that the law is in such a way that it allows them to allow themselves to be chosen only when a person meets an ◯Fishisse Einarsson. What is partially involved in the other questions. A senator is that the rules that ESE lives on are somehow different from those of others. The Council of Europe, as I have understood. They're quite complicated when it comes, for example. to see how men can reason, to reason, and to that sort of thing. In virtually every congregation, there is some conflict of interpretation of these rules. Almost no meeting is held where there are no interpretations. What Nothelle Nothelle says is true. It is a crisis of leadership because in itself it was so difficult to deal with the problems that arose. When it wasn't everyone's will to extend to our managers who had just done quite well, for example, came along. found in itself there was no tool to handle such things properly, i.e. discuss it. [[The president calls.]] There could not be a discussion or some kind of cognitive agreement over the Internet for such a delicate matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u51	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I have reason to believe that, in view of the importance of the European Security and Cooperation Agency and the ESE Parliament, members of the Parliament must be somewhat concerned about this and strive to correct the Council of Staff, as well as the importance of the Agency's election board, which is certainly important as we also know from the European Parliament's work, where election control is extremely important. I'd like a later question. Only the discussion of the struggle against the Jews'hatreds was the case with a member of the council. A senator mentioned his story. The report states that last February the SE has held a special discussion of the struggle against Jewish hatred, discrimination, and tolerance. There, a special representative of the management of ÖSE told the battle against Jewish hatreds that there was a growing problem in the SE region. This, too, has been seen everywhere else, and unfortunately we testify to this: a growing hatred that we may not have believed we were here. I might want to take advantage of this opportunity, because it's the review of the SE Parliament on this problem and this threat, asking if it's possible. A senator does not support a proposal for action on the anniversary of the death victim's death. Unfortunately, Iceland is one country of the member countries of ÖSE, who is not outside a special day of memory about the victims of the Holocaust. Surely, such a day would be a great opportunity to inform us of the calamities of the Holocaust and teach those generations who may not have the same historical awareness as we as the older ones. Would be a what? No doubt a senator would support that decree?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u52	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this clever answer. First, I just want to make it clear that all the hostility and violence that have been seen everywhere is a concern. Nothing can be justified against any one group, as is true of others. You just can't justify it. It's just not like that. Fortunately, it will remain, more tolerance in Iceland. We can have many opinions about how things should be done, as has come up here in this discourse today, but all of us want to take good care of the people who are with us, want to practice their religion, or whatever. So it was very interesting to listen to this fine man present his case. And the rules of action: There are new procedures to be agreed on. I hope they'll be approved so that the SE will not be effective or completely paralyzed for some long time as we've seen. In the case of the suggestion. A senator mentioned the day of memory, I think it's a good idea to remember the Holocaust, because it's one of the most devastating events we've ever seen in human history, at least as far as we know from history. Of course, terrible things have happened before, we know, but this is fear alone, and we should certainly do anything to prevent such things from happening again. And I would support it to keep such a memorial. On the other hand, I have to take this opportunity and say, because we have seen certain changes here, perhaps forbid certain opinions or forbid people to pass some evidence to us, that I hate what was there, so I'm just saying. Still, we need to be careful about what we forbid and what we do not forbid.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u53	Mr. President. Yes, it might be said that this year's unprecedented year was a situation of resolution within SE. ESE seems particularly sensitive when there is no opportunity for mankind to meet, to converse, to communicate in a real world, and to do so in a number of ways. ASE, by nature, is a covert field to preserve peace and peaceful relations. I can say what happened next. paritaprevir Róka Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörðurdóttir on the importance of election control. Although I have been involved in election management, it is a very important operation, although I have to admit that I do not trust in such a checkover this year. It's about year since we met last at a winter meeting in Vienna. You kind of feel like it's years ago because it's on some other dimension. There I participated in the meetings of a committee I have in, referred to as democratic and human rights. As noted in a report from what? paritaprevir Our chairman, Gunnar Bragi, the son of Sveinsson, was even. on the scene of this committee a special debate over the struggle against Jewish hatred and discrimination and the lack of tolerance. There Andrew Baker, a rabbi and special representative of the OSE president, spoke in the battle against Jewish hate. He spoke of Jewish hatred as a growing problem in the SE region. True, I must make my own confession that I do not completely share the viewpoints that were expressed by Andrew Baker in his definition of Jewish hatred that I thought was somewhat wider. He links criticism of Israel with criticism of the kingdom of Israel somewhat to Jewish hatred, which I cannot agree with. Similarly, he links with Jewish hatreds, which have been shown to forbid the circumcision of male children, as well as to me that it is often known to be a Jew - hater rather than a child's protection. Various comments made to this committee about democracy and human rights, e.g. Chairman of the ÖSE on democratic and human rights, Ivo Srámek, Czech Republic. He spoke of the Commission's focus prior to 2020, which was on increasing the membership of the Council of ESE and in particular trying to prevent torture. There was also a special discussion about international cooperation on human rights. Here, too, Michelle Bachelet Jeria, director of human rights of the United Nations, and Ingibjörg Sólrún Gísladóttir, director of the ASE (ODHIR) Institute of Human Rights and Democracy, spoke of Michelle. IGIAN Sólrún reminded us of the importance of looking back and protecting the success of international cooperation in recent decades. It reminded us of the great success that has been won in the struggle for human rights over the past 30 years to protest a united Europe. She said, though, that it was a concern what had increased among politicians and the public. There would be an increasing number of individuals with differing views as enemies. Sólrún's rescue repeated that the Holocaust had not fallen from the sky. She would have had a spirit, and it would be important not to react without interference. I personally spoke there in general discussions at the scene of this committee. There I brought up the issue of separation from their families on the border between the United States and Mexico. The U.S. government has imprisoned people who come to the country in a so - called illegal way, and their children are separated from their parents and placed with social authorities. Despite the 2018 court order, some 900 children would have been separated from their parents from that decision. That separation would be long, on average over 150 days, and the circumstances of the children would be unacceptable. I pointed out that the U.S. government took advantage of this family separation in order to force people on the move and take refuge from turning to the United States. U.S. representatives may be very busy participating in discussions about human rights and human rights violations in other countries, but they failed to respond to my indications. At the end, I'd like to mention only the work of Lólrún Sólrún Gísladóttir, the director of the European Court of Human Rights and Democracy (ESE). When the time came for that job to be renewed, the Tadjekistan set up against her order, and Tyrkis agreeed with it, causing all four ASE officers to retire. It was now, seemed to me, very at the instigation of Turks who had asked it to Ingibjörg Sólrún, that she excluded some organization from the Agency's meetings on the grounds that it was a terrorist organization. So it was a Turkish - government terrorist organization, although ISAS Sólrún and her institution had no basis for making such a decision and no evidence of that reproach. She could not begin appointing an organization as a terrorist organization, which was not enough for the Turkish authorities to claim, since the Turkish authorities have been rather active in teaching their opposers about terrorist activity. The manner in which Sólrún stood up to the Turkish authorities made it possible for the Turkish authorities to oppose her reinstatement. As shown in the case of what? paritaprevir I believe this is the situation of Gunnar Bragi, Sveinsson of Sveinn. contributed to the outcome, i.e. that the matter could not be settled, as people do in conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u54	V.E.G. President. I recommend a synopsis of Alexander's airport as a reserve airport for the Cheflavík, Reykjavík, Akureyri and Eglil Standard Airport. Further, the movers here are aggressors. Councilmen Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir, Bergþór Ólason, Þórarinsson, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Ishund, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, and the Þorsteinn son of Sæmundsson. The General concluded to hide a transport and rural government minister to have a thorough investigation of the options of making Alexander's airport on the South Year Report a reserve airport for Cheflavour Airport, Brooklyn Airport, Akureyri Airport, and Eglish Airport. In May 2021, a minister presented the results of the survey to the General of the Council. The report says: A similar proposal was introduced first to the 144th legislature and last to the 150th legislature. The safety of transport, whether by means of land, sea, or air, must be assured in the best way. Today, there are four main airports in Iceland, Reykjavík, Cheflavour Airport, Eglish Airport, and Akureyri Airport. These airports play an important role in national and national transport as passenger and freight transport fields and as security equipment. The distances between these choices are few. Between Akureyri and Reykjavík, between Reykjavík and Eminence are some 390 miles [390 km] and about 650 miles [650 km] between Akureyri and Eglish positions about 265 miles [265 km]. This shows that the distance between Reykjavík and Eminence is quite some, and it was evident that when a gap in Eyjafjörður took place, the only airport used and its importance was proved to be true in the same way. Between the sheep of the river and the Akureyri, the distance is only about 12 miles [120 km]. Between the Sheep's Wax and the city of Reykjavík are about 295 km. The city of the capital area and the Southnesia live in the vicinity of such active volcano areas as Blue Mountains and Krysuvik. The land is rising in Cyrsuvik, and earthquakes are occurring in the regions that still call for speculation about the state of transportation to and from the capital area as well as from the country. So it may be an important safety factor for the country's people and visitors to ensure that its transport safety is even more secure. It is obvious that distances and travel distances vary significantly between Eglskot and Reykjavík on the other hand, with the Sea of Galilee and Reykjavík. There is an important airport in all the North, especially because of increasing passenger flights in the country and abroad, and the Lagis base airport is also important for the East. Then the airport in Akureyri has a key role for a medical flight. Alexander's airport is well - located where flight is good, the tide is wide, and there is little obstacle. The airport points north, which are also the dominant winds in those areas, and then the location of the field is favorable for snow. The 2019 road record shows that the highway from the South Pacific to Reykjavík has been closed for only 0.7 days a year since 2011, but at the same time, the highway from Eglsports to Reykjavík has closed for 2.5 days a year on the south route and 9.7 days if north. It will also be noted that from a sheep's home to Reykjavík and to Akureyri, there is more than one way to go, so there is a chance if highway 1 closes. It is clear, therefore, that the location of the field is well considered to be a move on land. Transporters feel alone that building Alexander's airport as a reserve airport could be a significant advantage for Reykjavík and Keflavík. It is obvious then that such an airport will serve Akureyri and Egeils well as reserve airports and will ensure and trust in the important activities being run in connection with tourism and flights in general. Thus, in view of this, a minister is directed to engage in necessary preparatory work and research in order to implement these ideas and is proposed to have a minister investigate the benefits of making Alexander's airport a rescue airport for Cheflavour Airport, Reykjavík, Akureyri Airport, and Egil State Airport. The secretary presented the results of this investigation in May 2021. V.E.G. President. Since that proposal was first made, a few years have passed and since then things have changed. Although not the last one, the number of tourists has increased greatly, and hopefully they will increase again after Covid. As a result, it is urgent to place these airports in order to increase flight security and improve access to tourists. Because the suggestion is to make Alexander's airport a spare airport, I would like to mention that. paritaprevir Not long ago, Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir made a plaguing proposal for fuel costs. If Alexander's airport was to be built as a backup airport - but not that long ago at work to see if tourists or airplanes could be taken directly to an airfield. It was to be experimented at the Egls, but it had since disappeared, including Because the cost of fuel was high, the airlines disappeared from it. I'd like to go into the report with that council mishap. It says: According to the legislation on the equation of oil transport costs, equal amounts of oil products should be used, as detailed. The goal of the law is to ensure that fuel prices are the same all over the country to balance the conditions of living and the competitive status of companies. However, transport costs are not limited to fuels designed for export and are fueled for international transport, thus fueling more expensive land airports in Akureyri and Bulgaria than in Keflavík. I just wanted to shoot it in here to draw attention to the urgency of the fuel costs of increasing the number of backup airports so that airlines, tourism services, and all that package will be able to make the most of their use of airports. The report clearly shows how well Alexander's airport is on the move toward a geographic flight. It is wide in the mountains compared to many other places, and the dominant winds are actually like the direction of the airport, i.e. North and south. North and south are dominant. Strangers tell me it's almost always possible to land at Alexander's airport, both because of the weather and because there's not much fog and so on. It is clear that this is a lot of work and cost, but all travel starts with one step. We need to get this job into a track so that we can prepare for the future better. Transport is what we are concerned about on the General Assembly and transport roads of the country, so we are far behind ourselves in being a pair of people in today's transport demand. The same can be said of flying as about the benefits of having landing sites that spread throughout the country just for transportation. That's what I'm saying. I'm hoping that the proposal will get good and work at a job. The Environment and Transport Committee, and it's not going to be any further.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u55	Mr. President. It is difficult to sit quietly when considering transport, especially when considering transport in the country, land or air. There are significant changes in the transport process at this time. We live in an interesting time of transportation and what is happening. There are changes in people's attitude toward trips, both within the country and outside, and transportation is improving. Likewise, there is great progress and excitement in observing this trend. I'm just going to look back and explain the flight issues and the fine airports we have in Skavetir. Looking back, it may seem old - fashioned. But let us bear in mind the words of the timeless saying, That the past should think, if the original shall be built. They always apply. The story of flying is a big part of our professional and cultural history here in Iceland. It has always been wrapped in some kind of light and excitement. In the United States, time conventions were high when passenger flights began in the fifth century C.E. Then the road system was still highly primitive in many parts of the country. First, they were one - engine sea airplanes that took off, on their own. As a result, there was a company, a major Icelandic power, air routes, and Iceland's airline. In the early history of the flight in Iceland, it was a sign of abuse. Initially, an airport was placed on a so - called civilist in 1949, where the first plane landed in 1938. The city's plains, such as surrogacys, plains, and vast sands, are now abundant in vegetation. It is at the bottom of the earth, on the west side of the sheep's bed. During those years, the fauna was also connected in a different way to the flight of young pilots and supervillains in the lake of Micala, leaving them in sight - flying machines in search of silencing for the government's Filtering Factory, which was kept out of cold flights. It began early in the summer and continued until the fall. Then, in October 1976, a new stadium was introduced. Then, in 1988, there was a celebration of flights in a sheep's jar and then a name for Alexander the Airport. This is in honor of Alexander the son of Jóhannesson, a university driver, and a great volunteer in the air, who was raised in the Sheep's Fund. In fact, he was a passenger on the first plane that landed there, which was when the Nautilus landed in front of Villa Nova in a sheep's jar in the summer of 1928. As mentioned earlier, the roads at that time were implacable, and the delay was also not generalized. Thus, being short - lived between parts of the land was a revolution. That's what the locals used to do. In 1949, a planned flight began from the Sea of Galilee, having over 60 years of history before the end. In view of the change in time and better transportation in the country, the later years have proved to be difficult. A last attempt to plan a flight to a sheephouse was made at the beginning of December 2017, as a six - year experiment project. Of course, it was a delight to do so when the flight began again after a few years of rest. The project was strengthened by some kind of money, but by all means this flight route had not been supported, and, of course, everything was tried, e.g. to get companies, partners, and institutions in the northern part of the West to strengthen the project by buying tickets or subsidies to their members. But better had it done, so the flight ended after the test period. Mr. President. The conditions for flying in a sheep's jar, as we have seen, are clearly seen, and they were well - known. A merchant of this good proposal, of course, which I support, all the best, and the course is very well in the countryside, so to speak. Although there is a real problem with domestic flights at this time, my predictions and many more are that they may change sooner or later. Hard work is not setting fences, shutting down any potential for this transport. The situation at Alexander's airport may well have been very interested in this country's Flying Academy, using the airport to teach and train students. The airline Academy made a special deal with the locals, and it promised a great deal. But we can imagine what happened, Covid came. Mr. President. We can see a little further into the future, but it is possible to imagine that the development of tourism will be in a more comfortable way that tourists and visitors will be willing to get directly into the affected areas. We're on our way, flying sailing into the new technological age, changing energy. Within ten years, aircraft will be powered by electricity, or other eco-friendly fuels, and operating industry. There are still new opportunities for passengers in the air. There's a lot of movement in this thing. American companies are involved in the design of these electrical vehicles, and there's a lot of money involved. The U.S. designers have planes on test flights that reach 150 miles. We can discern what that means, e.g. This is the way. Then Swedish companies are well - equipped for their development and expect to begin even commercial flights in 2026 using 19 seat planes. There's a huge supply of fuel and maintenance. The Swedish machines don't need very long runways, but they've drawn up to 400 miles. Of course, we look at the repetition of history in this regard. The flight is going into the reinvigorated process of life. We're starting with small aircraft, two high-end aircraft that can fly, for example. To the sheep's bed and back. It is possible today and these machines may be used immediately next year. That's how it's gonna wind up. But what have we done in Iceland? Have we observed the trend? I don't think we've done it properly. It was the first time in the fall that a proposal came out for us Conspiracys, as a boy. paritaprevir Elíasdóttir Peace of Elijah's daughter in October, to shape a flight direction that is less than 90 minutes before 2040, and to start research and preparation immediately. Hv. The Environment and Transport Committee took up this proposal, pressed it, and gave a new proposal for energy change in Iceland's flight. It's because this could happen first. Mr. President. It is important that we breathe deeply, avoid burning bridges in the matter of this transportation and make sure that our workers are maintained where possible. It contains security for the inhabitants of nearby settlements, and it also involves a wide variety of innovations, as only those slain have been. [[The president calls.]] Though the writing is still indistinguishable, there are many possibilities written in the clouds. Everything will be explained.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u56	V.E.G. President. I recommend here for the synopsis of resources and resource expenditures. Transporters with me are all members of the Central Party. The suggestion reads: The General concluded to hide finance and economic ministers in order to appoint a team of workers as: 1st gives recommendations on whether to collect resource use fees and what resources to use, 2. Suggest a procedure for the stress of resource costs that could cover all resources and account for the costs and defects of different methods, 3. sum up information on how resource use will be used in neighboring countries. The Outfit shall render the Minister no later than May 1, 2021.• This resolution proposal was finally submitted to the 150th legislature and referred to the Economic and Business Committee, who sent the case for review. The proposal was previously proposed to the 146, 147, and 149th legislatures, and is presented here again. Let's just say, the drop will break the stone, and hopefully this proposal will get paid in the relevant committee, which will be the financial and business committee. This proposal suggests that financial and economic secretarys hide the group of workers to see if the resource use fees should be collected and of the resources to be used. The work force is also suggested to propose a procedure for the pressures of resource costs and to account for the costs and defects of different methods. This will take together information on how to obtain currency in neighboring countries, especially in the North countries. Transporters believe that financial and economic ministers will be committed to appointing the group, but there is not already a specific resource available, and who may be subject to more than one agency or agency. At the same time, the issue is extensive and urgent as well as it has been discussed for years, so it is reasonable that financial and economic ministers govern the work. It has long been hoped that the resources of the country will bring financial gain in one way or another. Over the years, government companies have paid interest in government funds, and it is sufficient to mention land activation. Resources commonly referred to as the resources of the ◯ nation can be of various means, i.e. resources in the sea, in the air, or on land. It is known that collecting is a fishing fee in the fishing grounds under the rules for fishing, No. 145/2018, earlier No. 74/2012, and there are some conflicts over their pressures, although there is debate over how high they should be. Transporters do not believe that resource costs are imposed on just one sector. Therefore, it is important to develop a more comprehensive policy. The use of resources will have an impact on the environment and need to ensure that resources are used in a reasonable and profitable way. Transporters also want to remind you that the concept of a stable fund has been developed that sets up the Norwegian oil fund, where money from money from government prices would all or part be cast into such funds. In June 1998, a richest committee, which was found at the General Assembly, wrote an opinion for the Ministry of Presidency, published in 2000. Part of its work was to deal with charge of resources for their research and to promote their protection and sustainable use, as well as to ensure that the yield of common resources would be legitimate for those interested in them. The Commission concluded that it believed that the payment of the use of natural resources is supported by the following evidence: first, to account for the costs of public analysis and monitoring of resource use, secondly, to ensure the visible share in the beyond, the resource use of a different name, the use of resources in national property, and thirdly to ensure the practical use of the resources. The resources specified by the Committee in its opinion were energy sources in Iceland and resources at or below the seabed, hydropower, geity and mines, electromagnetic pulses for communications and other environmental quality. V.E.G. President. This interpretation proposal is related - I can't tell the offspring - another suggestion I made at the council and was adopted in the summer of 2019, on the definition of resources. There, the Environment and Resource Minister was assigned to go to the work to define national and marine resources and perhaps air, those that can be considered to be the national resources. A minister was to pass the bill there last year. But in answer from a minister before Christmas, it was stated that this work had not been performed. A minister offered to meet with what? The Environment and Transport Committee to account for the work that would have been required on that definition. I hope that by that time I will follow through on this work. It must be a hobby of the highest degree. Minister to definition of resource definitions and non-employment. As a result, the work mentioned in this suggestion will be easier. The resource costs for more resources than the sea resources that pay the so - called fishing fees or resource costs today can be paid, and nothing more than a good thing to say. I wonder how calm this is going. It must be of great value to a nation like us that these things can go through the fact that we have no money left. It is not possible for us to raise money in the vastest way in our wealth now, and, of course, we need to make money at all times. So I'm hoping that the proposal will be paid for by the Economic and Business Committee and I'll be keeping an eye on that job in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u57	V.E.G. President. I'm probably taking a third bill to legalize a law on criminal treatment, No. 88/2008, with subsequent changes, we forbid video and audio recordings in courthouses. The movers and the people standing here are together...... Sæmundsson, why. The members of the Central Party, Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir, Ólason, Þórarinsson, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, Ólafur Ísleifsson, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, and Sigurður Jónsson. It's a very simple bill of law. It says here that 1st. 1 1. The law says so, by permission of the President: It is not legal for courts to record or take pictures in Congress or courthouses. At the same time, it is forbidden to stream a sound or image from a council or report what a defendant or witness will report during the hearing. A judge can give an exception from a ban on any of the above, if specifically indicated, as it is certain that photo and audio recording devices will not be directed at judicial hearings without their consent. If audio recordings or images have been recorded in the council without the permission of a judge, it is forbidden to publish audio recordings or images. The same applies to the publication of the audio and image updates of the verbal presentation handled by the court. Videos and audio recordings of defendants, violations, or witnesses are also prohibited from going to courthouse or without their consent. Like I say, it's a bill of old acquaintances. The reason why it is brought back here is that at the time of the previous transfer of this case, images and audio recordings taken from the defendants, violations, and witnesses have been made available on the road to courthouses or since, for example, to cause disturbances, e.g. is an innocent man who comes to witness on the same bench in a paper as an alleged offender, etc. Also, a person who has the legal standing of the defendant and then turns innocent can have a lot of trouble in getting a photo shoot like this. A third important issue is about officers, often accompanied by officials who come to courthouse meetings. It has been made so recently that some media have made faces unidentified, but it is natural, as we have been discussing here today in the light of organized crime in Iceland that, of course, the police and even their families are doing something to cover it, the police number, etc. So this is what the bill is all about, to prevent those who are relevant in court, no matter what their role, their discomfort, or even risks because they are taking pictures during this time. In the stream of time, i.e. when this case has been delivered in the past, many media have held a corner in this bill and believe it to be a violation of the freedom of expression or the tribulation of the rights that humans have to bring out news. However, I remember one or two times when this bill was moved to support them well - valued lawyers, including former law enforcement president at some point who took the exact tore point here, that the person who holds the defendant's position to be so innocent may even be damaging to his life and reputation, even a witness who doesn't want to be recognized by the fear of an alleged offender and, not least, of the officers who accompany offenders on the scene. It's a simple bill. It does not stipulate it if the case is so tall, as indicated here, that if that is the case, a judge can handle what case. The question is also, Mr President, how far should we go on the rights of those involved here in order to satisfy any alleged public need for information? In each case, do the public need to know exactly how every person involved or to participate in a court case looks or all his identifying marks? I don't think so, Mr. President, and I don't think this bill is a burden for reporting, it's an agreement with judges, etc., as presented here. It has also been shown and published by this bill that the way the above is being arranged has been completed in neighboring countries. She's been gone in Denmark and Norway, e.g. and from there are many of our legal requirements, and many laws have we taken up with our cousins. That's why I would have considered this case to be very desirable for the third time, for all three is, when it's presented, and when you're expected to have a good study of the General and Education Committee. I would very much like to have a chance to handle this situation where I sit so that they can get a successful walk. It also says that it is much easier to take pictures, to record sounds on every occasion, as one knows, both legally and illegally. This includes e.g. that phones have improved, but many cameras were only a few years ago, more sensitive and with better recordings, and they say themselves that it is easier to even take pictures of legal documents or documents of the defendants or to witness in court. Such imagings, as indicated here, can have an unusual effect on the course of events. The limitations taken in the bill are not too close to the direct principle of open assembly, which is considered to be a limit to the capacity of the media or others to attend and observe what is being done there. On the contrary, access will continue, and the media will be free to observe and report the progress of judicial cases. Also, there is no increasing authority on the authority of a judge to recommend that a council stand before closed doors, certainly not. So it is not that the right of the public to have news of what is happening in society and/or the media and the media to distribute it, certainly not, but primarily to protect the rights of them as for some reason, which I have traced to the front of my speech, has a court case in the role of witnesses, defendants, judges, policemen, etc. I think, Mr. President, this improved technology, increasing the intensity of fractures, their organization, all of this points to the process that it is necessary to accept this bill. I don't have much interest in this bill in the conference room. I'm sorry I think it has something to do with it. I hope we're through 2. Once this bill has been well treated on a committee, they may wake up to life and realize that this is a matter made up of the need to carry it out.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u58	President. We're here to discuss a bill of a change in criminal treatment law. According to the bill, it would be forbidden to take pictures or record sounds in courthouses and prohibit images and audio recordings of defendants, minorities, or witnesses on their way to courthouses, or without their consent. The principle is that a council is subject to hearing, as is Article 10. the treatment of criminal cases, as stated in the report. As a result, the media are permitted to attend and report on what is being done there. That is how we want it too. What is being done in the U.S. courts is relevant to the public, both the compromise and the actual action of the courts. So this proposal will not prevent news transfer. The media would continue to tell of all that is going on in the U.S. courts and to name witnesses, defendants, and victims as appropriate. The only difference would be that the media would paint their news in a different way than they do today. If the press had a photo of an older defendant in his own gallery, he would surely be supportive of it. This prohibition would prevent only the media from using new pictures of the people involved. More importantly, this proposal would have been designed to increase inaccurate information written from the court halls of the country. If reporters no longer had recordings, they could only speed up what is being done in the Senate. It would be harder for reporters to grasp the precise expressions of those speaking in court, but as all of us know, precise expressions can be of vital importance, especially in very delicate matters. So this suggestion will only contribute to the inaccuracies and worse reports from the court. There is no benefit, neither for the media, nor for those who have to seek justice nor for justice in the courts of the land. It is hoped, then, that the bill we are discussing here today has been severely criticized by Iceland's Journalist Society, a news agency Stopr 2, RUS News Office as well as others. These people have strongly opposed the agreed bill and expressed its surprising contribution in view of the relatively recent approved changes in the handling of private matters, criminal treatment laws and other laws, judicial guidelines where there was a significant need for audio recording and imaging in the treatment of judicial cases. There is no support for further limitations in these materials in the analysis of the bill. A careful discussion of judicial matters is part of maintaining laws and regulations in the community. Similarly, audio and video recordings not only have news values but also have an important source value. By forbidding films from a courthouse or close to a courthouse, the media is severely cutting and restricting the possibility of filming and interviewing the defendants. The public's potential for information is not only to be impaired but also to compromise the possibility of the defendants'right treatment for a hearing sound. Current legislation has gone quite far enough in terms of the limitations of the reporting of judicial hearings and other defenses already exist, a respectable president. For instance, a judge may agree with a lawyer's insistence on a closed trial if there is sound evidence to it. One of the basics of democracy and democratic debates is that the public has access to the right information and therefore can shape informed views on the current issues. It is of particular interest to the public that the media has the opportunity to share relevant information about the defendants and crime. President. This is a matter of public interest. In particular, if e.g. it was to represent a political representative. Even by permission of the President's permission, the media reports: The U.S. Order is that a trial, especially in criminal matters, will be subject to hearing, and openly. If the work of the court is open to the public, it is more likely to be the case with lawyers, prosecutors, judges, and defendants. Among other things, the role of the media is the implementation of the judiciary system. The public needs to see and hear what the courts and the staff of the legal system are doing. The newsmagazine believes that the bill reduces the ability of a news agency to carry out its legal surveillance obligation to provide the justice system. The court must be independent and protected from all political influences. As a result, maintaining the media and the public is essential. So all the restrictions on judicial reporting beyond what is necessary need to be based on strong and vital evidence. As mentioned earlier, a closed trial in the present system can be requested by a judge to agree that there is strong and vital evidence to this fact. A judge is, for example, a judge. It is permitted to decide that a case will be brought before closed doors, and that it will be shut down for the sake of the defendants, violations, or witnesses, for the interests of the public or the security of the state, to maintain a peace of mind, or when a witness gives a report without having to report his name in the hearing. Official treatment is based on an important requirement for transparency, both for the parties of a case that can monitor its progress and for the general public who will be able to know what is going on in court. Therefore, public handling is important in the context of giving judges the support that is an important factor in increasing the confidence of the public in the legal system. A public justice system usually allows the media to report what is going on in court. The Code of journalists contains regulations about individuals and others in a more delicate position, such as incorruption, and failure to bear children and defendants. The media evaluate individual cases and aim at the standards of journalists. Similarly, courts or the media do not state guilt or acquiesce. Every man shall be found innocent until his iniquity is proved, as it were a constitution. A corresponding view is found in 3 mg. The Code of Iceland's Journal Society. A review of The Kingdom Radio states, by permission of the President: ▪ Forms of those associated with judicial hearings, lawsuits, lawyers, and other matters at court are an integral part of the case. By banning images in courthouses, excessive restrictions are put on the transmission of news that violates the idea of freedom of expression. Such a prohibition is intended to reduce the subject of judicial matters and the public awareness of what is going on in the courts. The court is one of the three foundations of the government. This view is written in the belief that a discussion of courts is necessary and positive in a democracies community. By means of it, the public will be able to understand their activities and their rights. With careful publicity, the public's confidence in the work of the courts has increased for the benefit of all. Questions arise regarding the regulations of the bill that films and audio recordings of defendants, violations, or witnesses on their way to a courthouse or from the courthouse. Does this law apply exclusively to media recordings, or will this unpredictable prohibition also cover the public with cameras and audiocassettes in smartphones? When is someone going to court? Will it be forbidden to take pictures from the place where the person parks, such as in the middle of the city of Reykjavík, and until the person has gone all the way to the courthouse? On the contrary, this law seems to be unattainable and unattainable. In the end, caution should be given to the fact that there will be a tight spot on the media to discuss extensive and newsworthy cases. It cannot be seen that the media have abused the freedom they have had to bring news of judicial cases so far. The recordings of courthouses have both unambiguous news and document value in the historical context. As mentioned earlier, the State Radio has opposed the approval of the bill. There's no need for this bill to become law. There is no problem in this context that the bill releases. Rather, it would approve the bill. Rather, it would seriously weigh that our democracy, the freedom of expression, the use of information to the public. A subject for this bill is thought to be unthinked, unnecessary, and potentially harmful.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u59	President. Thank you. A senator for this speech. In fact, she may have answered the questions I intend to ask her. Still, I'm going to ask why. The senator will be made clear. We've drawn up a report and in the bill itself that there's some real interests involved. One is the interests of those who have business with judgment, such as witnesses, alleged and known defendants, etc. and information related to the general public. And now I'd like to ask. A senator whether it considers the interests of the public outweighed, i.e. The public's interest in getting the most detailed pictures and reports of being judged, and going beyond the rights of a person who is, for example, an individual. witness in a serious assault case and is threatened by the doer who is in court as the alleged defendant. Counts 'em out. A member of the public's interest in knowing that this alleged victim of this crime, this assault, is on his way to a councilhouse, a courthouse, and is there a threat to an alleged doer? Is that what is worth for the sake of public interest more than the fact that a person has some protection from the watchful eye of all involved?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u60	President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's euphoric question, which I thought, in fact, was an answer to in my speech, but it's nice to explain more. As I said, under the present legal environment, a closed trial may be possible if the interests of individuals, such as witnesses or violations, conflict with public information. Thus, we have these individuals who operate on the authority entrusted to them in the judiciary system to evaluate whether there is a heavy, strong, and powerful reason not to use shoots and news transfers related to the trial. If I answer that question. A senator just straight: I think we're already wearing cautions as far as the case is concerned. A senator stands up and does not see how this bill solves anything if we already have an arrangement that can handle situations like those of the day. A senator refers to him. As for films, as I only mentioned in the talk, the media would only illustrated the news in a different way. Then it's a bit about precision, just a certain careful practice that we call out for and we want the press to have and to perform its legal functions and that it's not just, pardon the sleigh, by permission of the President, to be the president'sestock footages when discussing very important matters that concern the public.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u61	V.E.G. President. Thank you. That's the answer from a senator. I'm gonna be a little more specific. A closed council does not guarantee immunity from those who are on their way to courthouse, either as witnesses, who meant the defendants or others. Congress is locked up in the court. So now I say again, "Do the interests of those who run the media and our public outweigh them?" Is it more important for us to know who the witness is going to a courthouse on a difficult matter? Public interests are greater than those of e.g. The witness who gets the panic on the scene? And now I say again, a closed council is about the court. It is not a matter of coming to the court or courthouse, not at all. That's why I have to ask. A member of Parliament: Is it her opinion that in such cases the right of the public to gather information and reporters to raise information outweighs the potential victim leading to a hearing?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u62	A respectable president. I thank the senator for further explaining the question. As mentioned in the talk, there are cases in which judges and those who administer the procedure for themselves have felt that this could, for example, be considered. created a threat to witnesses, and the witness must give his witness without having to be named. I can imagine that in such cases, there may be some. arrangements made that this party's route into the courthouse is not directly broadcast to bring the case before closed doors. I can imagine people at that job. I just want to ask you what. A senator to see if he knows of any cases where this particular problem has been encountered, since the lives and members of some individual have been in danger. As I see it, the lawgiver there would be going over to the realms of courts to an extreme extent and cutting down, at the same time, the freedom of the media for discussion. But with regard to this particular example, what happened? A senator would like to answer him with a question: Does he know of any instance that this occurred in a dozen cases so that it needs to be written on it by a complete law bill approved here at the General Assembly of Iceland? Ask anyone who doesn't know.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u63	Asking him is of no significance. A member of the council at the end of his talk period.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u64	Mr. President. I hereby make a proposal for interpretation of infusion fluids for medical use. The senators Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir and Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir are my partners to this proposal. The suggestion, which may in some respects be viewed as a request for a report, reads: The General concluded to hide a health minister to investigate the practicality of restarting infusion fluids and infusion products for health care here. In particular, safety, costs, and environmental factors of such production will be evaluated. The secretary will submit a report to the General no later than May 1, 2021. It's not the first time that the person here has made this case, probably this is the third time I've done it, but it's moved a little back, but it's still a bit more materially unchanged. In 2002, the production of infusion fluids at the Icelandic pharmaceutical store was terminated. Until then, such fluids had been produced mainly within the country. However, more complex and less frequent formulations, and even fluids, were produced abroad and imported. In November 2005, a report by the Land Hospital work group was published, which is here in the front box. Results in the group included up to the annual need for approximately 230000 litres, when combined as infusions, sewage and solvent fluids, at the state's medical institutions. Then there would be a great need for about 120,000 gallons [120,000 L] of dialysis liquids that are also being transferred. The report lists the need for increased production of some fluids as well as up to 1,000,000 litres due to potential trauma. Despite these 15 - year - old numbers, it can be concluded that the demand for fluid is very much similar, though likely due to population growth and increasing age, and so on, these fluids are being used in more institutions than government institutions or public agencies. Fluid management above 300,000 litres is considerable, especially if the event is to be expected or the temporary need to be increased, e.g. caused by influenza or by an outbreak of crown virus. The situation can thus change rapidly, and the need for increased production capacity can change very rapidly. For example, in an ongoing epidemic, it has been observed that in a few months or weeks almost all the Western world states suddenly need an increased supply of all sorts of resources. It is best to remember that there is a time in spring or late winter, if I remember correctly, for a time such as the lack of time. samples for the nasopharyngeal and pharyngolaryngeal samples. Then, too, when a disaster strikes, it may be difficult to get prisoners back to the country to form natural disasters, such as volcanic eruptions. In this regard, the Eyjafjörður, which prevented much of the migration across northern Europe, is less likely to be remembered. However, the situation here did not develop that we could not get water and that it would escape. But the point is, this can happen almost overnight, and it needs to be reflected, or some kind of production in the country, and it really isn't. You can also look forward to moving liquids to this level, and I'm not talking about if suddenly there's much more fluid to drink. That may be quite significant. A few hundred tons of liquid may be needed to reach the country. The report I mentioned earlier estimated that with the domestic production of some of the amount available, there would be 16 jobs, many of which require specialized skills. The nature of a case may be derived from the building costs, but a minister is asked to examine the cost of an effect. I mean, we as a nation, or as a health system, can produce the most necessary intravenous fluids. In effect, this is a national security issue. This is very important to the management of the whole health system. We are not in a position to respond at the speed needed to be met if disasters strike. Therefore, the objective of the proposal is to have a secretary determine if domestic product would be suitable, taking into account all of the above factors, i.e. Security, costs, environmental considerations. A respectable president. The report I mentioned is in the following document with the suggestion, and I'm starting to wonder. Councilmen to study it. I also know that there will be some new evidence on this, i.e. Following the proposal's contribution, it would be very important if the Department of Health asked the first one so that we know where we are in relation to this security factor. Mr. President. I'm not gonna say any more than I suggest. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u65	V.E.G. President. I now move a fourth-time bill to legalize a 40-hour workweek, No. 88/1971, i.e. Legal holidays. The bill is very simple. In 1st. says, with permission of the president: ▪ Instead of the words "Counsels " and" June 17 / 15 " at 1 mg. Section 6. The law comes in June 17th and December 1st. Two. says: ▪ This law already comes into effect. I'd like to read the brief report. The bill was previously submitted to 148, 149, and 150 legislatures. On December 1, 2018, a hundred years had passed since Iceland's becoming a free and sovereign state, with a state-of-the-art of the Union. For this reason, there were many celebrations during the year, including At Generalis's branch office, it is appropriate that such an important milestone in the nation's lives be remembered in a positive and decisive way. On the same basis, then, it is suggested by a bill that the following December 1 will be every legal holiday. Laws About 40 hours of work, No. 88/1971 is now, together with the holidays of the National Church, particularly for four full vacation days: the first day of the summer, the first Monday of August - the day of holiday, although shoppers do not have holiday days - May 1, the trader's Day, and the anniversary of June 17. According to the movers, none of these days have produced as much basic changes in the history and life of the Icelandic nation as the national sovereignty day of December 1, 1918; the day of complete victory in Iceland's independence. This does not minimize the history or importance of the above - mentioned days, which are true. However, in view of the fact that these four days are generally set aside by law of 40 hours of work, and they are thus trapped in the common memory of the nation, that the movers would be normal and just as the date of December 1 will also be followed by the day of vacation and its importance for the future. Mr. President. Without my intention to delay this discussion, I believe that the importance of the day did not come before many until the 100th anniversary of this event, on December 1, 2018. There were then hundreds of spontaneous events all over the country to remember it. In itself, I think we need as a nation to know our history accurately. Then I'm not just talking about a century of history, and I'm talking not just about modern history but about our understanding of the struggle that finally led us to the sovereignty of December 1, 1918. Mr. President. I must admit that I personally am impressed that the people of Iceland at that time were taking this step, just in this year when, with such disasters, volcanic eruptions, ocean ice, pestilence, which took relatively more than the epidemic we now have all those years later and with modern technology; the disease of 1918 killed much more parts of Iceland. Under these circumstances, people came forward and decided that Iceland should be an ideal state. There is one thing that I always feel personally out of place, which is that on this day, December 1, 1918, a few professors of the University of Iceland, then located in this house, formed a scientific society. They said to themselves: A country that has become sovereign and independent of having a scientific community. They formed a scientific community, and that gives me strong testimony to the fire that was in the hearts of people living at that time. With great respect, Mr. President, at times I feel that we take everything we possess for granted, including our independence and national sovereignty. And some of us do not seem to show that we remain an independent and sovereign nation, as shown by the case of many members of the council, about every day. So it may be more necessary now, Mr. President, but long before we know this story, Icelanders, that we know who broke the road and that we treat them with honor. In fact, I'm going to shoot into it that I'm not going to make such a small deal of it that Iceland's University has celebrated this day and has actually saved him from total humiliation by celebrating a festival every year that has been dedicated to the Icelandic doctors and doctors, who are doing well. Again, I say: We need to grow in appreciation for what we have. We need to cultivate appreciation for what we have, our independence, our sovereignty, our tongue. Therefore, we should give people and families, children, the opportunity to know why it is a great day. We are to celebrate this day because this day and its place in the history of the people are the big thing that he deserves it, and all the pioneers deserve it. There have been objections at the bill that we are entering the labour market agreement. I don't think so because at the Council we're here every day to accept laws and rules that either harden the public and companies or lose them. We're not going to be in for the point of setting up this vacation day. I remind you that today, in many parts of society, there is a desire to improve quality time that families can spend together. So why not celebrate December 1st and have a good time with your family, remembering the pioneers who cleared the way and enabled us to become an independent nation? I hope this bill gets a fourth time, because it's fully developed when it's four years old, a careful inquiry on a committee and quick, and it comes back here to the council and it'll be approved after it's over.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u66	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson for his speech and for presenting the bill. I've mentioned it before when he's brought it here in a councilroom, which is very aired. I have no objection to the fact that we celebrate December 1 and that in fact, I think it is a very good idea, both of which are cultural reasoning. A senator did well, as it were. A senator, in fact, also came in, the presence of the remaining family. As a result, vacation days are good. In fact, what I've said here too many times, and I haven't been in a job yet, is that I feel that there's still a law called a 40 - hour work week. I've talked about it in a few speeches where these laws are being proposed to change. I'm going back to the point. A committee that's being discussed on this case, huh? General and Education Committee, taking a look at that. Perhaps I should make it a reality to submit a bill that would suggest that these laws be taken away and the few remaining regulations in them be placed into other laws that would have another name. As we all know, the workweek is being cut short, and we've been doing it for quite some time. We're talking about more freedom when the workweek comes, how people organize it, and I think it's a lot of time error that in the law there's something about 40 hours of work a week. The goal is for her to be anything but 40 hours. I just wanted to make it happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u67	V.E.G. President. I'm here offering a proposal for a hearing about a judge's error. Transporters with me are all members of the Central Party. The point of the proposal is to assign the Minister of Justice to prepare a legal bill for a change in the law of judges and translators, No. 148/2000. The bill includes changes in terms of legal judgment requirements, with the aim of increasing both the court seats and the language in Iceland. The minister will be assigned to submit the bill no later than September 1, 2021. This proposal was previously submitted to a 149th legislature and then at the last, in the 150th legislature, and is slightly changed. According to local records of legal cases, 53 judges are active in Iceland and their services are available in 11 languages. In 1st. 10th par. Treated Privately, No. 91/1991, and 1 mg. Section 12. Laws on Prosecution, No. 88/2008, says the Convention is Icelandic. To protect the importance of Icelandic language as an official language in Iceland, it is necessary that Congress be able to take place mostly in Icelandic but at the same time that the ones called for judgment can express themselves in the language they know best. Although a law guarantees a judge's right, it is hard for them to approach in many languages. If a language that no one acts in judgment is needed to be interpreted, look for service abroad. The Law on Dooms and Documents, No. 148/2000, it is required that a legalization as a judge should also be a valid document translator, such as 2 mgr. Section 4. The law of the law, and have a legalization to translate documents of Icelandic into foreign languages and from that in English. The individual must also pass a specific test in order to become a judge. These rich standards have made it impossible for few to obtain legalization as judges since the turn of the century and none since 2012. Thus, in virtually no recent years, there is a growing shortage of judges, and there is a growing need for the ministry abroad. The review of a Total Education Committee on the 150th Legal Conference received a review of the case where it was found that there would be a great improvement if there was a possibility that individuals could take a test of interpretation after they passed a document translation in their mother tongue, regardless of whether they would be able to reach it in the foreign language. It would be important to maintain the requirement that individuals perform a written legal test in their native tongue, where it showed general ability for translation, which would be a basis for good interpretation. It is necessary to ensure their access to the legal system that resides in the country and does not speak Icelandic. A vital part of a person's being able to communicate and receive information in a language he understands. There is also the need for the increase in judgment interpretations to protect Icelandic language as a matter of Congress, and it is also necessary to make sure that the Court of Justices in this country can interpret as much language as possible. Although the ability to interpret and document translators is similar, it is not perfectly comparable. A good interpreter does not necessarily have to be good in the translation of a written language, and a good document translator is not necessarily a good interpreter. Tulas need a comprehensive knowledge of the exchange of information in speech and body language. This requires that interpreters understand the legal issues involved in each case in order to impart accurate information. Iceland's university has offered a practical study of translations that ends with supplementary waxes, as well as a master's study of crops and translation. The knowledge of those graduates of this school in Iceland's University or other schools could be greatly appreciated. In the case of judicial interpretation, the rich requirements of the current law are likely to disqualify those interested in obtaining legal rights. At that time, a community girl has handled a legal interpretation in many parts of Europe, and experience can be considered from there. Association girls in general have an extensive knowledge of the culture of the languages they are dealing with and can be considered to be able to expand their ability to obtain education and training for interpretation within the legal system. Finally, I'd like to assume that I too have made a pedicure of society girls so that these two cases would hang together in that respect. I wish this council's conclusion would allow it to be so. The General and Education Committee after the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u68	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize the changing of police law, No. 19/1996, which is about canceling the ban on police strike rights. Transporters with me on the bill are why. Councilmen Anna Kolbrún of the Year's Árnadóttir, Bergþór Páll, Jónsson, Gunnar Sigurður Sveinsson, Ólafur Ísleifsson, Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson, Sigurdrúnsson, Þórstein Sæmundsson, and Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson. The bill that the police receive a strike - strike right was first brought to the 144th legislature. The bill was submitted again to the Council of 145th, a 149th legislature and a Council of 150th. At the 144th legislature, when the bill was first submitted, it went to the General and Education Committee, who sent out a statement request. News came from the Union of Colleges, BSRB, National Police Association, Eyjafjörður Police Association, Reykjavík's Department of Human Rights, Iceland's Human Rights and Tolverage Association. All the comments were positive. In view of this and that as urgent as the bill was for the first time being delivered, a police officer's right to reimburse his right to obtain autopsies if necessary, it is now remanded. I'll do it for the third time. Last session, it went to the General and Education Committee, who sent out a statement about it. News came from BSRB, Head Marshals Society, Guðmundur Fylkisson, National Association of Police and Eyjafjörður Police. All comments underlined the bill and emphasized that police were given strike rights, and most sources also stated that police officers had paid the price of not having strike rights. Freedom of money is protected at 74nd. The Constitution and many international treaties involved in Iceland These include Article 11. European Convention, legalized by 1994 and European Social Convention, validated here on the land of 1976. Freedom of money is not only a right to establish and participate in societies but also an outsider. At the same time, freedom of society is deemed to some extent to the freedom of society to secure and protect the interests of its members. Although freedom of society does not have an unprovable right to strike, it is still considered an important part of the Treaty of members who are protected under the above conditions. Clearly, then, the limitation of such a right should be based on legitimate viewpoints and needs in a democratic society. The police'right to strike was canceled by law No. 82/1986 who included changes in existing police law. Until then, police officers had the right to strike, even as other classes within the Union of the Peoples State and towns with the advance notice that the necessary security was to be maintained during a strike, as was the 26th grade. the existing BSRB Convention Act. Degression was part of an agreement between police national relations and financial ministers in July 1986. In a book on the agreement, the ban was required on cutting off, but instead police officers would get so-called insurance if treaties were not reached. Insurance was to include the same average increase in pay as government bonds were given at any given time. The companies involved were the BSRB, the Alliance of college-educated government employees, the Union of Icelandic bankmen and the Union of Teachers. I wonder if the calculations are in the hands of Iceland's Habitat. From the time of the agreement, there were conflicting views about its implementation between policemen and the State. The calculation of insurance was not done during the first few years, and police made repeated comments about this. After much pressure on them, Iceland's Haggis carried out a calculated calculation in 1988 to request a financial minister. The meeting pressure had laid down the possibility to reevaluate the calculations on the National Association of Police Officers, but this was not really the case. The EU believed that by this time the 1986 collective agreements of the Treaty were broken and desired. ... aftera strike -- but in vain. For a long time, police unions have tried to achieve blocs for police officers with little success. According to their opinion, police officers have withdrawn from the reference classes in the earlier agreement that included the execution of the strike court. One of its reasons is undoubtedly the fact that police officers cannot resort to the emergency order of the strike, just as the other classes of society, were unable to reach a satisfactory conclusion in a discretionary debate. Mr. President. The police are doing a very important work on national security. It seems that such a special arrangement works against police unions in the matter of choice rather than contribute to greater rights because of the importance of society. The nature of the situation according to the police strike rights would depend on the fact that emergency and security services must always be maintained. However, the total number of jobs within the police, which could still be canceled, would be considered necessary to support the efforts required for a strike. In recent years the police'national relationship has emphasized the strike rights in a struggle, and various international police communities have concluded that they do. The police'work environment has undergone significant changes over the years, with increasing demands for police officers. There are a number of technologies that the police have taken into their service, as well as the fact that crime becomes ever more complex. Has this led to the rapidly developing of police work in recent years and decades? With law No. 61/2016, who was a two - year - old diplomat at the State School of Police School, was now a two - year - old diplomat. In other words, increased demands for the police work were especially reflected in these changes. It is important that police officials will be able to obtain the same rewards as other classes, but they do not have to sit behind while their work becomes more complex, more difficult, and the demands of police continue to increase with regard to education, tools, and skills in general, technical and even more so in dealing with citizens. But the formulation of citizens has changed from being very uniform to becoming ever more international, with population growth with a different background, as well as the growing number of tourists up to the country. Thus, police officials will be created the prerogative position of agreement with their negotiater, the state, that can provide reasonable terms for them in their working environment. This bill suggests that the police strike rights will be rebuilt by a simple change in police law on the way to 31 st. Their laws will be canceled. It is suggested that the bill be after the discussions referred to the General and Education Committee for discussion. Mr. President, I was expecting the matter to finally get started at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u69	A respectable president. I'd like to discuss this matter for a moment. As noted above, the matter was first delivered at the Eyrún assembly. So I was shocked when it appeared so in the hands of the Middle Party at the Eyþórsdóttir of the council. But all right, it is always good if someone sees why good things are being done. I've been talking about the police at many fronts, including... There's more to it than that. There's more to it than that. Much of the information was collected back quite far back into the history of the police, and it revealed just what was to be torn up in this regard as to the development of their dress code. Truly, something has changed since the arrival of the bill to the 144th and to the present day, as shown in today's subjugation, including the past. Regarding the study, which was one of the points discussed back then, i.e. that they moved to college. That was a significant point when this case was presented here for the first time. Now it has become reality, and as mentioned above, it has become more technological uses and other things; police have far better equipment and, of course, matters in the work they do in general. I agree that the strike warrant is an important source for all unions. I think there's any reason that when the police had this warrant, it certainly wasn't abused. It's a little sour, I must say, that it hasn't worked out what was negotiated at its time. However, as in the past, there are sometimes disagreements as to whether this was true or not, i.e. by the state and then by the U.S. Police Association. But I don't think there's anything going on, when the figures were drawn into my inquiry a while ago, that they really showed that it wasn't. I also will speak, because it is important to me that this right is present. As noted, a minimum security service should always be maintained, and it is not that police officers may leave all behind in a pool even though the strike weapon may be used. I don't think we should fear that, at least There is a possibility that after the strike rights were resolved against the changes in unrewarded remuneration arrangements, although we would surely have been added and done better in the past, we know completely that the police are doing the kind of work that I don't think we would want to do without. As soon as we want renewal, we want to maintain good experience and experience, not to allow people to drop out of their jobs either because of stress or because the work environment or other factors are not the best option. I'm going to say again that I truly believe that there have been many things about the environment and other things, but it can be better if it's enough for this class as well as for others. But I support this case, and I don't think we should be shy about getting that right back. I believe that it can be shown that he has not been abused before and that he will not remain, if this is a law.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u70	Mr. President. Thank you, of course. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for her irreverent support of this case, dresser compensation for the police, and granting the strike rights to the police, was the first official to agree here at the 145th legislation when it was submitted for the second time. Hv. Councilmen of the left green made this issue twofold at the time. It is of interest to review the Senate hearings, especially from the 144th Parliament, as it turns out that members of the currently in charge, sit in charge here on the council and in the country, including those of the United States. Councilmen left green and white. Members of the Independence Party, at that time appear to be very positive and support this bill. Therefore, this bill, which in itself is a very simple, legal, is very simple, and everything is needed, to go through and provide a class of police officers - exactly in these very difficult days, to deal with hard - necked criminals - the right to support their demands and apply them by applying this weapon that we give to most classes, namely. to put down jobs to force your dress ups. As I said in my first speech, of course, this is not the case, and no one is to be misunderstood, that even if the police as a whole would never abandon jobs. Of course, if this were to be done, it would always be a precaution for national and community safety, i.e. I'd always be held by police minimum security. I sometimes feel that in the discussion of this matter, people think that the police would just do a whole strike if the situation did happen. It is not like that, as it is with doctors or other such classes. Of course, necessary actions would be performed. The social environment today is very different from what may have been some 30 to 750 years ago. So the police work, as I mentioned in the previous talk, is anything but in the middle of the last century, much more demands, more equipment, more difficult and more complex subjects. We must support this class, which is so important in the community. It may not be necessary to go over it, but the police work is a hard job. It's a shift job. Policemen never know what awaits them when they go to a call, they never know what the situation is in the location they are called out to. We need to support the police, Mr. President, give the police good equipment, good pay and education, and restore the strike rights. I have the hope that this case will finally come to an end, the sixth time it is put forth here in some eight or ten years, commissioning and entering the Assembly Hall, and it will be approved. I know from my experience that police are trying to see this right again. Officers have fallen behind. Indeed, police have withdrawn, and it is time to give this class the right to strike.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u71	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to correct the change in road law that we take the road to a land inhabited by an island that will be given place in the highway system that I have chosen to call national transport routes, i.e. that these routes will be recognized as different highways and taken to the State's highway position so that governments will be prepared to maintain service on these means, as was the case with any other highway. This is the fourth thing I recommend here at the council. This was my first case when I arrived at the council. I presented this matter in my first assembly. Its background is that when I made my way to the council, the island was very interested in leading them up to the fast country, i.e. This en route, either in the landport or in the village, would be recognized as their highway. I promised them that if I were to get into Congress, it would be my first job to present a bill that it would be. And here it is to be treated, but there are, in fact, four political parties here at the council, and there are 14 members of the council who prescribe it. With me, it's a whisk. Councilmen Trausti Sigri Guðmundsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Birggir Þórarinsson, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Páll Magnússon, Vilhjálmur Árnason, Árnadóttir Kolmönnadótir Ólason, Gónar Bragi Sveinsson, Ólafur Ísleifsson, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, Sigurður Jónsson and Þorsteinn Sæmundsson. The bill is simple in itself. It contains only three layers. 1st par. is really this addition, to 8 gr. A principle defines what a national transporter is. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ Transporter transport pathways are part of the basic transport network as defined in the specific transport programme. A national transport channel is considered to be a means by which a ferry replaces a road-to-line network and connects the regions of the land that are surrounded by the sea's infrastructure of transport on the continent. Two. is a change in the 22nd paragraph. A layer of roads, and it says: The transport programme shall set up budgets for the costs of transport transport transport transporting people and automobiles as a national transport service. It is also permitted to set the budget for the expenses of transport costs. This latter point is already under road law. As I said, the bill has been submitted three times before, during the last three conventions. The matter has been passed to the transport and environment committee, which has been sent to the review and reviews received in general were positive. For years transportation has been under way to the Western Islands. Western islands have a high priority in transport and are the assessment of exporters that it is the role of the government to ensure good and easy transport at a fair price, in the exact same way as the public is the source of a common road system operating, rejection, and flight selection. The transport problems facing the Western Islands and other settlements must be solved. At present, the four islands around the year are located, Home Island in the Western Islands, Gímey on the Island of Eyjafjörður, Flatey on the Bountiður, and Hisney on the Eyanna. The objective of the bill is to make certain processes, above, fall under the definition of highway law because of its special status. It is suggested that national transport routes be added to the definition of highway law. Under this new definition, there is a process of trajectory that connects islands to the basic roads of the country. We are, in effect, simply linking these processes to the road system in the sense of road law and doing the duties of the State on or similar in these means as it were. The background of this case can be attributed to the opinion of the U.S. Marshal of the Council in No. 4904/2007, with an agent reporting on remuneration for the use of the EEA's ferry, which sailed at that time between the Western Islands and the Pacific, and the rise in Iceland's Eimship Society ehf. on the budget of the ferry beginning of 2007. So it was. According to Herlf, a highway in the sense of road law was considered to be the case. An agent made it even. that it would not be defined as highways, either in accordance with current road laws, No. 80/2007, or older roads. It would not be determined by the laws of road law or by earlier road laws that the General had considered the State's duty to operating on squares in the same way as building and maintaining highways. - Mr. President. This is the point and the reason this bill has appeared four times. An agent noted that Esther played an important role in transport between the Western Islands and other parts of the country and had a role that would be somewhat similar to the role that roads would have in general in transport here. In spite of this, an agent's opinion was that the matter alone did not lead to a reputable course of road law that would be viewed as the squares of an ◯ national road between the Western island and the country in the sense of road law. - That's why we're about to change this bill. In view of the findings of an agent, the assessment of a transporter bill is that it is important to make the necessary changes in road law and to pass certain squares under the definition of highways under road law. In the review of the Road Building, which was treated in 149 of the legislature Council, it was observed that it would be the right of the legislature of the legislature of the legislature to amend the current management structure if it assessed the Agency's assessment that the policy would be better met by changing the transport programme, change of transport laws, or by a new focal legislation on the establishment of the public transport or the operation of the process. Transporters insist that if the bill is accepted, transport and local government ministers should take into account their changing their focus on transport as a bill will result in the process of transport. In 2017, a thorough service analysis was performed for the Western Islands and the Department of Transport and Transport at the University of Akureyri Research Center, RHA. It shows that the need for mobility is increasing and that people want to be able to cross countries and islands with minimal notice and maximum travel rate. A significant point is that people go up to the mainland to obtain service, work, and recreation. In addition, a lot of companies trust in moving between the country and the Eyja, e.g. on transport of fish stocks and commercial fish products. For these, it is important that you do not delay moving. It also shows that safe pricing is important for tourists in travel services. These views are expected to apply equally to the inhabitants of other islands around the country. In section 4.1 of the analysis of RHA, a national and national road, including the Eyjasa, is discussed. suggested that the road make a special service party be squared as a highway. The inhabitants of the country are taking special precautions to ensure that safe transport for and from homes is ensured by the government by the state's success of operating on squares on designated national transport routes in road roads. Their frequency of transportation and service levels will be defined as the government does by other means of highway transport in the country's highway system. This will give them the obligation to keep open to all defined national routes in the country. Mr. President. I hope, in view of widespread support from many political parties, that after a discussion about the bill is concluded here tonight, the case will be referred to what? The environment and transport authorities must be promptly treated and returned to approved levels. It's such a big deal, Mr. President. Of course, the inhabitants of this island, all of them, have a right to travel to them, as if by any other highway. The government has established that this obligation does not rest on the government, and we need to correct it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-17-56.u72	Mr. President. I recommend a proposal for a resolution to honor Margrét's memory of the oddness. Who, then, could it be? It is an artist, a local artist who lived and worked in the South In the latter part of the 12th century and the first part of the 13th century. I propose this proposal for interpretation for the first time. It is my pleasure to do so. The point is: ▪ The General concluded to hide the Minister of Education and Culture to honor Margrét of the odd by building her a monument. So the memorial shall be built in the gilded pit. The minister introduces the plan of the material no later than in the spring Summit 2021.156 My importers at the proposal are 12 plus me from three political parties. That's why. Senators Ásmundur Friðriksson, Þórarinsson, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Páll Magnússon, Árnason Árnason, Árnadóttir Kolbeknadótir Ólason, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Ólafur Ísleifsson, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, Sæmundsson, Sigurður Jónsson, and Þörstein Sógundsson. Mr. President. According to Páll the son of John, Margrét was the odd priestess of Pilgrim, on the top of the bishop's days, and, according to history, was the seat of all the people in Iceland to be chosen for their days. Her last name is not known, nor should it be known otherwise. The apostle Páll Jónsson of the Golgisbisk, born in 1155 and died in 1211 C.E., was a man of great art and art. His diocese were artists in the cave of Sale, who performed fine work in behalf of the throne and decked the temple with beautiful works. Margrét, along with other artists, served as bishops, lived in Pilgil, along with her husband, the Reverend Þórir. In Páll's story, the Bishop's letter of a tooth, which Margrét cut for Páll and was sent to Þórir the Archbishop of Nurdorose, says that he was made to the advantage that even in Iceland, an ancient man had been a common serpent. When Páll's chest of biskup was removed from the ground and opened in the summer of 1954, it was found in it a roll of bramble teeth, carved in the likeness of an animal's head, and preeminently made. A Kristján Eldjárn - metal miner who led the dignitaries likely believed that this was hagur's project, and many have agreed with it, but it has also been noted that the shape and technique of an outlet indicate that his origin is searching in Britain. Margrét cut out a number of items for a bishop, and she has been described as a hallmark of the Middle Ages that was discovered in 1831 in the South Seas near the northwest coast of Scotland. There we discovered a collection of practically carved chess men, most of whom are of brauna but some of the cage teeth. 78 of them are manpower, but 14 are thought to have been boxing men. There is no accurate knowledge of the meeting place of the chess workers from the Houses, nor is there a meeting time. There were stories about this, and they made it to print and books, such as that they had been on the ships of a seaman who would have died for the murderous weapons of greedy islanders that coveted the desirable things or that the chess squad had been found when cows were withdrawn from a shock. Most of these and similar stories give evidence of the fertile tradition of South eyes that survive and thrive without forced contact with facts and realities. Uncertainity of the circumstances of the chess conference at the Houses makes it difficult to dispose of their origin and story before entering the British front posts where they reached most, but not all, and not all of them, since the respectable scrawl from the Red Sea Chemistry was offered an invitation from Sotheby's London, where he was sold for £750,000. Several theories, different probably, have been used to describe the origin of the Matrix. The British Museum's scholars, the British Museum, tend to agree that they are from Norway, and Þyndheim is mainly considered a likely place of origin. Britain's Norwegian colleagues support their views and refer to the equivalents of the Norwegian art industry. Denmark and Sweden have been named, also Britain and Ireland, with the oldest idea that an Icelandic artist has contributed to this well - being. The theory of the Icelandic origin of the Matrix has been with them ever since they returned to the world of mankind from their historic exile and were saved in museums in Britain. No one has ever been able to give reliable proof of the origin of the workers from the Plains, and from time to time, a lively exchange of thoughts about this exciting mystery. Two Icelanders, Guðmundur G. Þórarinsson, engineer and former generalist, and Einar S. Einarsson S. Einar S. Einar, former president of the Conspiracy of Iceland, sought about a decade ago to strengthen the hypothesis about the Icelandic origin of the Matrixs by pointing out that only in English and English would a bishop have had a title of a chessist and gave him a look that would remind him of the bishop's equipment. Such a view would be a sign of their origin. Then Guðmundur pointed to Paul's account of the Bishop of Haga's house, where he named a famous U.S. surgeon who might well have performed such fine works as the King - Designates. Despite the lack of the origin of the Matrix, and likely late, it is clear that Margréthinn oddhaga economy was a woman, considered the best in the 12th century, in Iceland. And there's still an operating champion in this country. It's not that long since I visited Sigríður Jóna's Kristjánsdóttir on a suspect called Sigga, who is the most successful woman in Iceland, and even though others were looking for an outlet and examining many beautiful items in her home that she has cut out in recent years. We need to honor the memory of such a master, and it will be best if we build Margrét the noble monument, preferably at the point where she worked the longest part, i.e. To the Toilet. The movers believe that it would be a pleasure for the Icelanders to set up a memorial for Margrét of the oddness to honor the memory of this remarkable woman. Margrét, hinn oddhagur economics, is one of the few arts mentioned in the world that lived in the Middle Ages. Therefore, the movers suggest that the monument be in the gilding seat, where Margrét served for the bishop of his trade. After the discussion on the matter, I'd like it to go to the General and Education Committee, where I'd like to get good coverage and payment.
