ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u1	Today, on Monday, May 31,, Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson, a deputy of the National Anarchy Party's list, is again serving as a reserve for Þórunn Egilsdóttir, and takes away the 2nd reserve on a list of the Bogi Hafliðason, of a council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u2	There have been letters from foreign and development co-worker at a request every time to provide written answers to panel requests. 1147, on legal advice, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, and on a threshing floor. 1378 of Iceland's database requirements, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u3	To answer, Transport and Regional Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Health Ministers, Foreign and Development Ministers, Transport, Industrial, and Organic Ministers and Environmental and Resource Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u4	Mr. President. The direction of the Union and the left greener on health matters were somewhat similar before elections. Both classes emphasized a strong public health system that provides access to free service to the public throughout the country. Both categories also reject increased market coverage in health care. But all this ideal period has the State, e.g. Unfinished nursing home has been repeatedly indicated by the operators as well as by the then health - care minister acknowledging it when he added in the box 2016 as the first step to solve the problem. This was confirmed in a recent medical report. The recent history of Akureyri is this: The state of the budget of the nursing home, the country society has been forced to pay off with the money of another tribe, a great dissatisfaction that ends with the community's forced to resign. It appears that the government will then negotiate a private partnership, even at a more favorable rate than the local community, because according to the Commission's Health Protection Commission, the company will not pay rent for the housing, and prior to this weekend a financial minister announced to the secretary for ablation of 1 billion into the company. Auras that could not be paid by society now come to a private part of society, which, though, I really hope to do my business well. The point is, I think it's a little familiar and almost like a script from the '70s written by Margaret Thatcher. But this comes from the government recipe book. But which is this recipe from the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of finance, the highest? Minister? Furthermore, can she tell me why they could not meet the nursing homes in a similar way while they were still in public business? And who's paying, e.g. renting your place in Akureyri?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u5	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's request and also thanks him for his public health care. It is of great importance that it is not about government or government. Rather, it is about who is grieving in the Icelandic health system and what is the basis for it to be powerful. There's a misunderstanding in asking why. In this addition, the senator, this 1 billion this year in the government budget. In this regard, it is not that it is primarily to those who run a nursing home but to those who have a nursing home over their heads this year. These categories are divided; first of all, these are private and private institutions, which have been running a nursing home primarily here in the capital area and now in the Eyjafjörður. Then there are rural societies in many parts of the country. However, recent changes have also been made, so community nursing homes have slipped into the clinics. This has happened in both the East and in the South. I believe that there is a very good arrangement for making changes in that situation because there is no doubt an opportunity there to improve our ministry and keep it more consistent with the people of the nursing homes, and, of course, in general, our vision, which I expect us to share as well, me and the other. A senator, that the service to the elderly may vary and apply individually, but there is not one solution that would be convenient for all.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u6	Mr. President. I realized that this one billion of them, of course, was widely divided. Sadly, this is just one payment, and it is not expected that the business will be improved in the near future, and that is a serious concern. Of course, with the integration of the ministry, it is very important. A few years ago, there was something called the Akureyri Model, where there was high integration between health care, aging home, home service, etc. When the then health minister took health care from the local community, it was broken back, but let's just leave it alone. Therefore, there could be steps now, or it could have been possible at least, to achieve the handling of aging plants in Akureyri, if there was no agreement with the town, to the North American Institute for Health, as has been done in many parts of the country. So I ask the highest. Minister: Why was it not done to achieve the importance of this integration?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u7	A respectable president. My will was to do so so that the trade of the aging worlds in Akureyri would depend on the National Institute of Health. It seemed that there was too much unity for the National Institutes of Health, which made us look for ways to do something else. Because of what? A senator is particularly asking about the decision made this year, about this billion, that is my desire that this be the first step in reevaluating the nursing facilities. There are still a few of the factors that stand out, and we see in the Gylfi report that there are still questions that remain, such as pay costs, but also that there is over a quarter of these nurses that run within the framework, and we need to figure out the difference. I think that everyone involved now realizes that we need to dig deeper into the data, get better information, but also, the fact is, those at the table realize that this foundation needs to be re-evaluated.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u8	A respectable president. The relationship between the so - called Partisans Department of Samherja, as the core and the hour have been dealt with, shows that the factory was spying on foreign journalists. This was done by Samherji during the last February when the company checked to see if the Helgi Seljan, a reporter of the Kingdom radio, was in Namibia. In his reconnaissance activities, Samherji also sought the government's grace, and then, at the beginning of this year, the Captain of Samherja personally contacted the former ambassador in Germany and the current Ministry of State at the beginning of this year. The plan was to find out if the former Helgi Seljan had accompanied Jóhannes Stefánsson, a informant in the Samherja case, to Berlin in 2019 C.E. During a conversation with the NGO, the chief of staff confirms that the captain had consulted him, that he was a painter, but it was not possible to grant the captain's request because she fell outside the field of foreign service. The Department's communications show that the captain did not get information from the Ministry but that their conversation, with the permission of the President, was very good, as the captain put it. The Commissioner intended, by permission of the president, to tell the men of their talk, and he thought that they would reflect a little what people are thinking. So I ask the highest. Minister: was the highest. Secretary of State, one of the men the Ministry told about this call?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u9	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the queries. I just didn't know anything about this case until the Ministry chief told me a few days ago that he had been contacted, that I'm holding off the reactor. As a result, the manager sent a statement, which I intend to do. A senator was quoting. Other than that, I don't know anything about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u10	A respectable president. This is a phone call I have even lived in. the Ministry's comments, followed by reports of sitting around the Helgi Seljan in a coffee shop; he receives a shocking message from the Samaritan, and it is generally in order to follow him along and make him feel that he is not 100 percent secure. Now I know the highest. Secretary of State cares about the safety of journalists, at least in a foreign suspect. So I want to ask the highest. Minister, in view of the fact that this is followed by the above events, which everyone should be aware of, whether it is not a reason to report to Helgi on these notices of the company, whether it is normal for him to have such a conversation without being informed and how he generally feels that major corporations are trying to spy out foreign journalists. What's going on? Minister of such spy expeditions to major companies to Icelandic journalists?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u11	A respectable president. Hv. A senator certainly makes plans. The big deal is natural, and you're absolutely right. A senator, that we have taken up particular business of journalists. That is true anywhere in the world, although there are differences. Sadly, the situation of journalists around the world has become terrible, as we know it. But I can't quite figure it out. A senator is considering the wide range of conversations people have in general. [[Up front.]] There are no rules on how to deliver messages. I believe, however, that the main thing is that it is very important for the Icelandic journalists to do their jobs, their maintenance and monitoring, to call it, by governments and others in a free state. [[The president calls.]] There's something I'm supporting, I've supported, and I'll continue to support. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u12	Mr. President. An article as the highest. Prior to the year, the health minister wrote on the results of the new assessment of health from gender criteria. It shows that women seem to enjoy lower health and better quality of life than men. However, the objective of the assessment was to determine whether different sex needs could be met by health care. I thought of this when I went to the Facebook Page Access to Women's Health, which was founded at the time of cervical cancer screening. On the page of well over 14,000 users, the most striking descriptions of women are of the potentially hazardous health consequences of these changes and of the findings of women. ▪ Decent and humiliating for Icelandic women, so I take lightly the debate of this group. With each day, it will be harder to wind down the consequences of that decision. It will be more difficult for the equipment available and still exists, for housing, and perhaps especially for special staff. The situation seems basically because most professionals wanted to move the research to a land hospital, but their opinion was ignored. And while the matter is in progress, governments seem determined to maintain a stable course despite all the criticism that should lead to the obvious conclusion to resolve the matter. So I want to ask the minister: What's the plan? Take care of the highest. Health Ministers continue this tour, or will professional people as well as users of the ministry, women of this country, be listened to and returned? If the reaction that has been presented by these numerous sources since the first case came to conversation in the late autumn, what would it take to do?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u13	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. The situation in this particular case is that sending samples to Denmark has not been lost or destroyed by the health care system. The current process is therefore better along with each week. I am sorry, however, that this transfer did not work out as it was supposed to. I am very aware of the importance of this kind of service being secure and unscrupulous. In some parts of the countries around us, when screens are being moved from service to service, the screens remain low for some time during the ministry, so that everything outside will be all the way out before it is replaced in a new way. We chose not to go that way, but that there would be no breach of the ministry, that it would continue, which makes it necessary that we have had to work under the cows and also because all the samples taken before the years of cancer society had been processed. The waiting period is shorter and shorter each week. Like what? A senator knows that they have been in the process of a report, in fact, taking the initiative of a party. A senator who led Haraldur Briem, a former psychiatrist, agreed to my request to report to the General for a change in the organization. I expect to see that report over the next few days and that it can help and provide guidance on what steps to take next. [[The president calls.]] But I think it's very important not to skim at anything in this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u14	Mr. President. Thanks for the answer. It's a good thing to hear it's going better. It couldn't have been any different. Of course, the question remains, Why did the lottery become an unsurpassed winning lottery and even less vague winners? As far as I can see, after a careful consideration of this case, but that all the reasons that were fundamental to the initial decision of change have been dropped, whether it involves equipment, costs, the abilities of our professionals, or the number of translations, or what it is. This past week directly identified the surgeon general's ability to investigate these samples. I'm gonna let me take a word from you. A minister to me who ended his first reply, excellent answer, saying that the most important thing is not to worry about anything. It's news, Mr. President. Every clue and debate almost everyone, the vast majority, professionals, and women's experience will reveal it. It is clear that although time is somehow restored, there are so many things that were critical of this, and doctors have described certain problems with the breaches of the service to take part of it out of the country. [[The president calls.]] The question may be, Why was this journey taken?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u15	A respectable president. This question, in itself, has been answered repeatedly and will probably still be answered in my petition report to the Generals and in accordance with the approval of the Generals. Above all, it is to a screening guide, and those who made the suggestion to me at the time, showed the importance of building on European guidelines. Then we are not only talking about cervical cancer and breast - hands, putting them screened for public service in order to ensure that everyone's access to the ministry is more attainable. It's given a lot of time, and I'm very pleased with that part of that change, i.e. ... they'vecome to HospitalsandNational Hospitals. The remainder of these visions is considered matters of self-employment. So I feel a little deep in my years. A senator talking about things going wrong, and everyone agrees that everything was impossible because it's not. [[The president calls.]] But now let us consider - a respected president, when it is available, let's answer that question and review its evidence. [[The question is... the visions to the foreign... get the case clear.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u16	A respectable president. About and over 1,000 children are on a waiting list for medical services, hundreds of children on a waiting list to get to another 100 children's waiting list at the State Department of Analysis and Management, who treat children with severe illness. There is a delay of up to two to three years in children with serious illness, and nearly 10% of young people in Iceland have attempted suicide. A psychiatrist said that children have a high suicide rate. long-term consequences of saving the system. A respectable president. We know that waiting lists are extending and increasing in the health system, and it is intolerable that year after year the survival of children will not be reduced but will be prolonged. One child on a waiting list is too much, but about and over 1,000 children waiting for years should not pass and is always a serious matter. Children who are waiting for us to be ashamed of us, let alone children who have come to the edge of the cliff, who are falling out of it under government rule, and with what result? Hundreds of millions are being placed in private media and minks, but there does not seem to be money to eliminate children's court lists. Ain't that wrong, chief. A health minister? The government has done pretty badly when it comes to saving children on hold, and that's why the number of children is going to suffer permanent damage to a waiting list for second and third measures. They and their families are not supposed to be in this terrible situation year after year, sick children, and their families who are so in need of help but are giving up spiritually and physically because of stress. There's a budget problem, and then there's also a problem with design in the system. And what's going to happen? Health Minister to do so?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u17	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Well, first of all, it's not very accurate. A senator says waiting arts are only being extended. In many places they are being worked on. In the days, some weeks ago, it was discussed as broke. In the media, a senator is talking about waiting for mental - health services for children. The analysis of the situation, according to the report, suggests that this is the case as early as possible. A senator points out that during the past few years, mental health issues have not received sufficient attention, so there is a wealth of problems. However, the report also mentions positive awareness in the community about the importance of good mental health. People thus know that they have a right to good mental health and want to go for it. It's important. During my prime season, mental health issues have been in greater attendance than ever before. Mental - health services have been improved at all levels of service, e.g. We have established a multidisciplinary mental - health service throughout the country to ensure that a mental - health team is independent of the population. We're on the move, and we're going to continue this building. According to the latest proposals now being discussed at the council, and making new financial proposals, we expect to install new mental health teams in all medical districts for children, i.e. where mainly a child is viewed as a service, and especially because of the emphasis. There's a senator here calling for. Mental - health matters are important, but they are probably the most important thing in young people's lives.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u18	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A health minister for the answers. I can only agree with her that it is important to deal with children. But there's a problem with design in the system. How do you deal with it? The pressures against those there are so intense. I've heard that the pressure is to overcome many of those on the front lines of this system. I'll ask you how it's being handled. And in this context, e.g. has a deal with speech pathologists? Has there been a deal with a physical therapist? Has waiting art been changed since speech pathologists and others who really help children are under way? Are they being negotiated? Is it being done that there isn't always everything in the attic in the system? And then there's going to be an addition to this case for Covid. Is it being addressed too?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u19	A respectable president. Not everything is up in the system, it's not like that. I appreciate it if I do. A senator wants to keep to the facts of the question and answer. Hv. A senator specifically asks about the effects of Covid-19 on mental health. As noted earlier in our relationships, we have a special group that monitors the effects of Covid-19 on the mental health of Iceland and this group was reporting their first status report with special emphasis on children and young people. The results are thus proposed to provide some suggestions; to promote school health care; to promote electronic solutions to mental health; to promote a multi-disciplinary mental health care provider; to improve access to a more specialized mental - health service in BUGL and BUGL at Akureyri; to promote school services; to offer a wide range of summer jobs for young people who are also doing; to increase their status in child protection; and to promote treatment options. All these suggestions are considered or implemented, so we are a respectable president, with our eyes on the ball for children, young people, and for mental health.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u20	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the Environment Minister, in view of the fact that the work of the environment and transport committees in this year has been largely colored by the management of the Commission on the highest bill. Minister for Highland National Park: In a government contract, the government promised that such a park would be realized. A lot of criticism has been made, and then it is under way an understatement. Officers are running out and south and flaunting warnings, some of which are very expressive. First, however, it became surprising to watch a news report that appeared on the 9th of this month after an interview with the highest level of the interview. Secretary of finance and chairman of the Independence Party, Bjarni Benediktsson, under the title: Does not stand in the way of a highland park. This was of particular interest in the fact that on February 18, an interview had been made to the vice form of the Independence Party, the highest. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers, under the heading: A debate about highland park needs more time. Now we're doing so well that last night was the highest. The secretary of transportation, the head of the Action Party, was an interview in the Mounting line at St. II which called in the report on that matter: Denounced that a highland park will be approved in the present form. There goes the highest. The minister above what he felt was lacking in that matter. This was particularly interesting in view of the fact that when the case was given in December last, the vice president of the Agency said that it, at the highest rate. Minister, would be optimistic at peace with a highland park. It is reprehensible if the work of a member of the Parliament is subject to a case that is not acceptable to anyone to complete. The matter has been discussed in 14 committees of environmental and transport committees and is nowhere to be completed. So I want to ask the highest. Minister: has the highest. Environment Minister for the support of the government and its administrations to end the case as it was stated? And if not, what is it they're trying to negotiate between the ruling parties? [[The president calls.]] I feel it is necessary now that five committee meetings remain in accordance with the current Council ethic, with the additional meeting that has been announced, that they exist, and the committee can spend her time on other things than this bill if there is no one willing to accept it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u21	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry and for the interest in this case I know why. A member of the Environment and Transport Committee has helped to ensure that, although the person currently does not have the programme for the environment and transport committees, much of the work has helped to keep up the schedule. Therefore, it may be difficult for the person mentioned here to answer when this matter is on the committee and when it is not, how many meeting times it has received, and so on. But this is obviously an enormous case, that is not the case. There are many opinions and differences in this matter. I am optimistic about the fact that the majority of the committees have come to a conclusion in one way or another, but they are not going to tell me more about what might happen here. I know we're gonna have some. A member of the council, as it has been, that when it comes to paying for this matter, there is still little more to say about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u22	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers' answers, though I thought they were thin. V.E.G. There is no need for a minister to assist the head of the Environment and Transport Committee in holding up the statistics for visitors. It doesn't change that last night during the interview in the Vitro line there was speculation. A secretary of transportation, who is chairman of one of the three board of directors, that it may be possible to expand a lakeland park instead of getting closer to it as it is right now. That's why I want to ask the highest. Environment Minister if there is any kind of compromise that is being discussed between the governments today. At the same time, I would like to ask the highest. Environment Minister on things that were quite surprising to me during the interview at the highest level. Last night, the secretary of transportation and the head of the advance party told the advance party that they have warned about the case in the government covenant. Knows the most. environmental minister, in advance?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u23	V.E.G. President. Like a snooze. A senator knows that a number of officers were acting on behalf of the advance party and the Independence Party. Well, I'm not used to it because I'm asking for Congress that there's a warning in the collaborators and maybe there's nothing abnormal about it. So far, we have been able to work out such warnings in these administrative areas, so I have hoped that in some way we can work out the same issue. I'm not going to comment on the exact route right now, whether it's the expansion of the Lake Earth park or anything else that's quoted from an interview. But these are quite a few warnings, a big one, and that's in progress. Regarding the government covenant, the political treaty speaks for itself and no more about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u24	President. The last few days have been announced reports of Americans, including the U.S. through his National Security Institute, espionage on high - ranking individuals in several countries; Germany, Sweden, France, and Norway. To date, assistance was provided to the Army's Secret Service and communications cables used to intercept phone calls and to monitor electronic communication if there is something to mark news. There have been reports of American spys in Denmark itself. This is manners that have been criticized by the United States when it comes to their political opponents in other countries, and we must criticize each other. There has been much discussion about the risk of new communication systems. News of the last days will show that it is usually not necessary to look far over your dose. It may be just as well as our main friends and allies who are involved in that situation. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister to see if he is concerned about these reports that come with us, whether he has studied the matter, or he can tell us a little more about what is behind, even the highest. A minister considers the need for a specific response to the case, and perhaps, above all, to say: Minister that this is something we need to worry about coming up here? Are Americans also spying on Icelanders, who wouldn't be the first time in history, or is this something we just need to pay particular attention to other countries?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u25	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. The matter is very serious and obviously undermines confidence in the relationship between these great friends and allied nations. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has demanded explanation from Dana on this and has made it clear to our anxieties and disappointments. Furthermore, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has required Dan to dismiss the matter as undeniably whether these agents have focused on Icelandic interests, including Icelandic politicians, government officials, agencies, businesses or people on the land. To this end, officials of the State Department have had discussions with the surrogate ambassador Danmerkur of the country as well as with the representatives of the Danish Ministry of Defense, where our concerns and disappointments have been made clear. In the same conversation, we have demanded information as to whether the activity described there was against Icelandic interests, politicians, institutions, or companies. As we know, this issue was last brought to its top when it was informed that the U.S. government even had. could use a close partnership between the states to spy on Danish citizens. Further accusations were also made that the U.S. government was investigating the key office and private firms in Denmark based on the close cooperation of the countries. This naturally caused anxiety in Denmark, but also here and elsewhere among the allies and fellow citizens of Denmark. We provide such concerns with those in Denmark at the time. Now it seems that they are concerned that the cooperation of the Danish secret agency and the U.S. National Security Agency has grown deeper than previously thought and even before. It included enforcing information on high government, government, government, government, and business in close alliances with Denmark. Trust and confidence are key factors in friendship relations. Such issues may undermine such confidence. That's something we don't need at a time of multiple threats. Unfortunately, countries benefit directly from subjugating the trust and solidarity of friends and alliances in the West. We've demanded that the card be placed on the table. That is fundamental if we are to succeed in coping with this challenge and in building up essential cooperation for the future. [[The president calls.]] Then I'll ask other questions in my later answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u26	President. It's good to hear from the highest. Ministers that the case is taken very seriously, and as soon as the news was received last year, it was begun to be examined, and then again, and I welcome it. That's the best I heard in a case. Ministers, I may be mistaken, but the conversations and concerns that have been expressed were primarily against Denmark. V.E.G. A minister named the ambassador of Danmerk, and appropriate agencies and officials of Denmark. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers whether the same concerns have been expressed in the same way with the United States and whether this is a matter that needs to be discussed in the institutions where we are in cooperation, such as at NATO summit.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u27	A respectable president. Of course, it does not matter what our allies are involved or who will be involved in these matters. But this caught attention, and we've looked particularly at these matters, since we are now cooperating with our close alliance and friendship nation, Dani. That is why we have taken special note of it. At the end of these cases, the importance of online security issues, the Internet defenses, is being taken in. That's something I've put special emphasis on as Minister of Foreign Affairs and around 87th. ... inanimportant telecommunication bill at the highest. Transport and Regional Ministers is one of their manifestations. I would like to underscore the importance of cross-cutting cooperation in this field across the Ministry, but at the same time with the companies in the country. We all need to be on the same team, for as it is known, no one will do anything alone in these matters, and no one will do this for us. All of us need to stick together for obvious reasons when it comes to Internet security. This case is just one of many in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u28	Mr. President. We in the United States violate the government plan for our next election period. In principle, we disagree with the way the government groups want to go, and we reject their old - fashioned way out of the economic low, with cutbacks and its members. We make adjustments that all aim to increase jobs, to increase green values, to improve the health and safety of the people in the country, and to improve the optimal interests of children and the most important groups in society. So we will succeed by a just source of income and with equal guidance.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u29	Mr. President. Here we vote for the last financial programme of the government. It is an interesting story from the introduction of the first financial programme of the government, which proclaimed extensive infrastructure development, both incoherent and tangible structures. This last plan reflects the fact that it has been successful in building important pillars, whether in health, education, welfare systems, or in the tangible structures. At the same time, this final plan shows responsibilities because we are at the end of a terms period, and there is no fat-fat check in the future, but it reflects the vision that we can grow out of the position we are in now and that we will. I have full faith that the European economy and industry are now going to turn around quickly and go upward in a hurry. This is why all the options are set, and they have including one. have been placed in responsible management of government over the past few years. So this is a responsible plan that expects us to ask quickly. At the same time, we give increased emphasis to one of the most important events of our era, which, of course, is the climate problem in which it is still being given. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u30	Mr. President. There are many challenges to economic management in the country. Kingdom funds, highest unemployment, inflation has not been higher in years, and growth is increasing. Here comes the government with a financial program that solves no problems, a financial plan that is characterized by ambition and has no policy issues of causes. They are taken out because the government does not have the courage to discuss this. This plan is not to blow in the hearts of thousands of foreigners who have no hope. The middle party can't support her. Part of the government's situation puts up unfunded changes, election brochures for billions of raises here and there. The company will sit next to them. The Central Party will provide its own solutions in the economic and commercial affairs of elections, solutions that we will then implement in the next government.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u31	Madam President. This is a policy financial plan out of Covid. An election is ahead, and if the government is going to continue working together, now would be the time to make a move out of Covid. But it is obvious that this task was beyond the reach of the government. They're trying to emphasize climate issues. But what did the left green do when they formed that government? They cooperated with groups that had the worst climate policy before elections. It was all the focus on climate. We must have governments that really show how the government's financial affairs are going in its policy. We don't even know if the financial resources we're working on are the legal matters that we're making decisions about at the General Assembly. My client's request on legal projects is answered by the director of Iceland's Medical Insurance, who does not know whether the cost of living doctors is correct or not. This is the problem we have with this government, and we need to get something better.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u32	President. There's a underlying problem in the state, and it's been looking for a long time. It has been pointed out that the state's funds had become insurmountable before coming to the controversial Covid crisis. Kingdom interests need to be handled in many places. We need to be able to sail through the future for the next few years without raising taxes and without compromising our service. But we need to get more for the contributions we make. This time, we in suspense chose not to make any adjustments in this strategy, for we know purposelessly, they are not listening. Other political groups have proposed ideas that, in my opinion, are quite stunning and unfunded. We don't have that kind of politics.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u33	A respectable president. In the condition we are now, when we see the end of our meeting boundaries and the opening of the access to tourists, a future policy is needed, but unfortunately the government gives it wealth. We know that all efforts by the government to reduce unemployment have not worked well enough, and the situation is difficult, so there is no denying. What is even more difficult is to see all the lost opportunities. While unemployment was heading to 10% last fall, the Technical Development Fund did only finance 8% of applications. There was too much money left in a climate crisis fund that could also have created space for innovation in climate protection. There's so much missing opportunities here, a respectable president. We could have used the new creation, the strength for the people, to get out of this situation, but unfortunately, we continue in the same financial program. Hence, we cannot support it in the hope that we will look ahead to a brighter time, with only a vivid imagination ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u34	A respectable president. If this financial plan is to be carried out, I'm just saying, Guð help them the worst place in the social security system in Iceland. The government's not going to help them. It should be exactly the same as it has always been, the stagmus and the re-pigular height, only an increase according to an index, can be thanked for that. Perhaps the most surprising thing in this situation is that the elderly who have not received a cent in the Covid case, no help, are not even available, they are left entirely left behind. I'm just saying, if this financial plan is to go through, these groups must take over and then I'm going to ask God to help us. I hope so much and fervently that this government cannot abide by this financial program.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u35	A respectable president. This budget was submitted under very special circumstances, not just for election support, but for a few months before or toward the end of the last year of the pandemic. As a result, we turned to the big picture in this program, and we form the impression that we can successfully cope with this epidemic of extreme strength. It is vital that we recognize any external circumstances that enabled us to use our financial resources vigorously in one of the most economic pressures we have ever faced. It was all based on a policy that ensured the lack of financial debt, that resistance to the financial system, that the Navy had room to apply the money policy when necessary. This financial plan says: As soon as it is published, we must prepare comparable policies and ensure a rich future state funds while caring for important social projects. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u36	President. Newerism is dead, it's over. This government is going to be one of the last ones in our neighboring countries to realize that. How sad! The maintenance is tangible in this financial program as well as lack of understanding of the future. There is no understanding of what the future looks like and what the future needs will be. Prime Minister is behind responsibility, hiding policy and inaction and complete lack of understanding of the future behind responsibility, but is not evidence of responsibilities. It's completely irresponsible, and I'm very worried about it. I am deeply concerned that this government will continue after the next election. I am deeply concerned about what that means for our community and our ability to go to some restoration after Covid.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u37	A respectable president. Inflation is greater than has been in years. We're getting worse, unemployment is a lot. Impulse structure was not predicted. All of these are very clear evidence of recent uses. This government's election system shows - and it's well to mean, the state funds had become insurmountable to Covid, there's no way you can hide yourself behind the Covid, he didn't have expenses - that the government is going to give us a financial plan with a 50 billion angle at the end of the plan, and this is to be done by means of a resurrection action. That means cutback. I'm just hoping that there will be no cutting down in the health system, and then this will mean 50 billion tax gains directly to the public and the companies in the country instead of going into a way of valuables and walk posts we've been talking for, a walk-of-the-end, which is very important to our homes in terms of cost of housing, leads to a lower cost of food baskets, and a lower rent cost outside of attracting high-rent capital, not least for the companies and innovations we need so much.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u38	V.E.G. President. The financial programme that we agreed on in December, and that contains the policies of acidification, budgets of this year, funding and this program that we vote for here well reflects extensive infrastructure throughout the ideal period, and intensive action and operation for the pandemic. The plan also makes the government's economic focus clear and the government's policy so far and through the epidemic and out of it. The budget is used vigorously, with emphasis on people, businesses, well - being, investments, and innovations, but this plan also includes responsible policy as before. Let the goal be to halt debt collections and balance terms, to regain power so that government funds can always do their job, and meet each individual situation with a strong response when necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u39	President. We have a member of the Ministry of Financial Affairs, which is a matter of public opinion, but we cannot really tell us what a public service costs, just so much money, not disintegrated, not at all. When we ask for information about the effects of the government's response to Covid, the answers are just: There are a lot of reports on how much money is put in here and there. We are asking, though, " What are the effects of those spending money? ' There we will never get answers. That is how the government's financial plan is. There's no explanation of how this policy works, and that's something the government's not supposed to get away with, so it lets go of this financial program. Regarding the changes made by Pirata, there is a collection of changes made by the Pirantars in this terms of terms, except for two suggestions, i.e. on climate issues and on the grounds of the hospital's tilt of a University Hospital. There are some basic corrections that need to be taken into account, and if people don't agree with the other suggestions, they already say no to them, I don't care, it's just a set summary. [[The president calls.]] On the other hand, it would be interesting to see a vote on the other two.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u40	A respectable president. This is almost a repetition of the latest financial programme; it is only updated in the rhythm of a new national economy. A group of people have a number of adjustments to this program that all aim to eliminate the health - care system and to help help those who are helping need to be in the community. How exciting it will be to see what it will be like even now! Secretary of finance reports that the government's budget is being used with great force. To help who? asks the people's party. Is there any funding to vote with the group's proposal? No, money needs to be set up first. It's ugly to leave someone behind, and that's why I challenge us here to put my arms around everyone and show what we're made of and who we're really working for. People first.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u41	A respectable president. This is a kind of a guide for the next four years, on which we are about to vote. The union offers adjustments that we hope to be approved for, but that may not be a complete indication of calmness. Above all, though, these work well - worked and carefully developed our suggestions to show that there is a different way than the one here to go for the next four years. That's political sometimes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u42	Mr. President. The United States body hereby contributes to changing financial plans to promote law enforcement in Iceland. Just then, the government of the U.S. Marshals issued a declaration of great concern over the situation faced by the police. All too few police officers are at work, and the percentage of learned policemen is dangerously low. Evidently, after the workweek's shortening, the date of May 1 went into effect. The situation in Iceland has deteriorated dramatically, and despite promises and agreements, the government's government has not been funded to solve additional human life. As a result, fewer police officers are on duty at a time, and this reduces the safety of police and public. By accepting the proposal of the United Nations here, we increase the safety of the public in the country as well as the police.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u43	Mr. President. The changes in climate and measures to cope with these are mankind's biggest challenges, and we must start to take them much harder and more determined. The union is the World Council political party that intends to directly place the most money on environmental and climate issues. We're setting up 5 billion bucks. increase in the year 2023-226 to the climate and the environment, where funding would be added to speed up energy exchange, improve public transport, strengthen the economy and green food production and full-time work on climate-friendly food, make changes in the agrienvironment and support European administrations to become green. In addition to this, we contribute funds for green investment funds and green innovations as well as suggest that carbon costs be increased to the standard reference of the World Bank and OECD, and provide additional grants and loans on the benefits of green energy exchanges in contaminated industry. I encourage the U.S. Congress to be courageous and capable and to accept this adjustment proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u44	President. This is where the United States proposes 5 billion for climate. Pirates contribute 4 billion, but that is merely a fixation of flaws. Given the current government cost assessment, if it is to change from 40% emissions to 55% emissions, it will require an additional minimum of 4 billion. That is what Pirata's amendment is about, not some additional project that needs to be measured, costing, and the like, 5 billion are definitely something that needs. Pirate's proposal is merely to fix the flaws of the government budget, not the policies that Pirantar put forth in elections and after elections. I think 5 billion is an easy thing to put in the climate, and I vote by that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u45	Mr. President. These are the changes made by the United States to reduce the possibility of waiting for the state of Katrín's daughter, Jakobsdóttir, in the medical system. In this government, waiting lists for needed operations or essential mental - health services have increased progressively in the years of this government, young people and adults, a waiting list that could be shortened if the highest possible. A health minister would be prepared to enforce the will of the General Assembly and provide necessary psychological services for the general public. The government's demand culture is enormously costly in all of society's conflicts, and it is our suggestion to reduce that loss.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u46	Mr. President. The people who rely on the insurance company are simply getting too little money to live on, and increases have not kept up with biographies. So there's been a marked improvement in all these terms, and the difference between minimum income insurance and pension is 85,000. per month. There is much poverty among these groups, and inequities will simply continue to increase if we allow this elegance to take place. That's why the Continental suggests that we reduce the amount of energy and old age to the rhythm of an increase in the highest pay step by step. This proposal is a vote against the poverty of these groups in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u47	A respectable president. Piranians also have a change in these areas, up to 3 billion in disability and in the affairs of disabled people, and 3.5 billion in the matters of the elderly. That section is just what is missing at the cost of biographies. More than that, the lack of resources due to blundering between pay development and the development of social security pensions needs to be improved. This has been 5.7% during this terms. So I agree with the Union's proposal for these matters. These amounts are somewhere in the direction of bridgeing the exact space here in the past 20 years, which is more than 50% of the human population's commitment to social security.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u48	Mr. President. If Iceland is to be a child-friendly society, as we officers are going after election, we must support more children in the country. In Norway, Sweden and Finland, child reforms are not linked, but in Denmark they start to be very high - paying. But here in the country, child reform starts at 351,000. in a month, and people with medium income will not get pedophiles. We need to change this, and we suggest that parents with 600,000 bucks. during the month you will receive unsatisfactory child support. It is long time, Mr. President, for us to look to the Norwegian states, the Norse welfare states, when it comes to supporting the child population.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u49	Mr. President. Our main concern is what we call home, something that affects all of us. But the housing market also touches the economy and affects it, and we have simply lived in an over - flung market. Therefore, it is very important to look ahead and work for excitement and to maintain stability. We can. We have crowds, and we have things that enable us to do them. One important factor in this is to ensure a sufficient supply. Three thousand apartments must be built each year until 2030, and the market will not solve it alone. We also need to establish a structure of adverse rent-offs and social housing. I challenge all members of the Parliament to stop drawing their feet and to place the money needed for this seminary.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u50	A respectable president. As I explained earlier, these are changes made by the Pirantars over the term period and have already been rejected. This is really a summary of them. I noticed, when the vote was being made last, that the k- team for hospital service was supposed to be only 3.8 billion once, which was the limp of the Land Hospital of the University Hospital, which was supposed to pay up 2003, but this has been copied and glued over the whole series. I'm pulling that back, because the amount of money in the United States has been turned down, so there's no need to drag the council through it again. But we vote specifically for the environment below.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u51	A respectable president. I considered only the cost analysis of the government on climate issues on these matters. Based on the government's own cost estimate, 4 billion are needed to meet commitments in order to change policies from a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions to a 55% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. It's simply funding missing in order to enforce a government policy according to its own cost analysis -- carefully scheduled, I'll take it out. If the government's gonna turn it down, I think it's very interesting.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u52	A respectable president. Here's what we're gonna do. Councilmen and the highest. Persuasion to change our mind to help our smallest brothers and sisters, and to prevent poor people from keeping on waiting for righteousness. These suggestions are moderate. There aren't many of them, as you can see. The question never depends on whether the suggestions are funded or not, for that is for the benefit of those suggestions. A group of people have repeatedly proposed bills to show how we can reach more than 100 billion dollars. k melancholy bang with changed accents. I challenge everyone to finance psychology costs, to spend requisitions, to reduce blundering, to raise minimum wage, and to give the people of the country all the opportunities for salt.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u53	Mr. President. If this government is to stick together after the election, it is clear, according to this strategy that governments seem to agree, that the rate of the elderly and the disability will not be replaced during the next term. The law will continue to prosper. Depending on surgery or mental health care, the supply of the health system will continue to increase. The list is prolonged due to Covid and a shorter work week and should not be handled. The inadequacy in climate matters is complete. The government proclaims the path of cuts, proclaims an old - fashioned route that even the World Bank has warned. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u54	President. This decree of Congress is about a report on the cooperation of Iceland and Greenland, a 250-page report that many of you have seen with 99 co-operation. It is very important, when this is the case that good and mutual cooperation will do even better than so far between Iceland and Greenland, these good neighbors of ours. I want to reiterate that when the report is supplied with the Constitution proposal for the government, both this and the next administration, no task will be taken on one-sided, i.e. without a full agreement on both sides, be sure not to lean on a little brother or little sister, whatever we would like to call the Greenlands.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u55	A respectable president. This is a happy occasion, that we are voting on this proposal. I want to take this opportunity and thank you. The Foreign Affairs Committee for a good job when it comes to this. I'm not going to repeat it as a matter of course. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson mentioned here. This is based on a report written under the direction of a former minister of foreign affairs, the Skarphéðinsson of Aissphedin, and in the group was UnnurBrá the Konráðsdóttir of Consalkós, and Óttar the Guðlaugsson of Gull. It's a very good report, and it's the basis for all of us to cooperate with our friends Greenlands that we work these things together. We've got a lot of support, both in Greenland and among Iceland, we've increased our cooperation, and we have a responsibility to do it as well as possible. If we do, it will be for our own good. But how this case has been won is a joy, and I want to use this opportunity to thank all concerned people for their efforts. I look forward to seeing the conclusions of the vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u56	A respectable president. I support this proposal, as all of us here in this hall, but I just want to point out, as the members of a committee show, that no Greenland was called to the Foreign Affairs meeting in the process of this case. It is strange not to be fixed, but perhaps it reflects the view of them as our little brothers and sisters, as shown by one of the committees here. But it's a good thing, and I hope the Greenlandans agree with us on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u57	Mr. President. I, like the rest of us in here, welcome this proposal. How important it is that we cooperate with these closest neighbors! This certainly is based on a report quoted earlier, but it has been done with great difficulty and communication with the Greenlandic authorities and the Greenlandns. It is mentioned in the Committee that this cooperation should not be the basis for us. Rather, it is to seek ways to identify cohesies that are in harmony with the will and interest of both nations. So I reject any anxiety. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u58	A respectable president. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir Logi, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Einarsson. You see, this report was carried out in good cooperation with the Greenlandian government and its members. It is, in effect, the report that we are building so much this synonym that it is a pleasure to see that the entire body of Congress agrees. I am absolutely convinced that there is a great increase in cooperation between these nations. It's also a pleasure to find it, when you visit Greenland and talk to the Greenlandians, how much their interest is in interacting with the Icelanders and in cooperation with them we should build it. There are opportunities for both nations, and I'm convinced that it will be a good thing for both Iceland and Greenland to increase our cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u59	We're here to vote on this proposal. For word's sake. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's son I just wanted to know that, according to my memory, this is so that when we're dealing with the Foreign Affairs Convention with other nations, there are usually no representatives of their nations for the committees, whether it's a big state or a small one. I don't think there's any routine for it, and there's no reason to be putting out of it in some way, like the cot. A senator seemed to be doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u60	A respectable president. It is a pleasure to be able to update the transport programme in a manner that the Commission's opinion of the environment and transport committees echoes when the transport program was adopted here a year ago, or last spring, and was then fully funded in a financial programme. This update is in accordance with the fact that this government wants to continue its infrastructure and believe and trust in it, and I welcome the change that will benefit the entire country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u61	A respectable president. I'm glad we're here to work on this council resolution proposal for a five-year transport change, confirmation that it will be possible to continue and complete the work beginning with a special investment campaign a year ago. This project can be completed within the next five years after its removal from financial programs at the end of the last year.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u62	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to raise the budget for the year 2021, which is to be found on deck. 1536. The bill presents to the General Parliament proposals for changes in the resources of various causes and litigation classes for new and changed measures. The aim is to provide targeted support for enterprises and households to meet the social and economic consequences of the pandemic crown virus. Most of the measures are taken in the government's fourth action package, which was introduced at the end of April, but as a result of a few of the budgets due to the impact of the epidemic, as well as contributions to the nurses'daily expenses. As noted, the spread of the Korean virus and measures to block its spread already have widespread economic and social impact. One of the main objectives of public finance in recent years has been to minimise the damage caused by the epidemic, to distribute it over a longer period, and to provide the conditions for the strong demand for the epidemic. Home and company support has run the operators over the hard part of the problem and has guaranteed the legal power of the households. Those who have been most economically affected by targeted support have been met. A general demand has been encouraged by increased consumption and public investments, along with a decrease in taxes and increased expenditures. The recent contribution of financial programs and new releases here at the council can be seen in an overview of government counter measures in 2020 and 2021, a scope of some 200 billion. During the two years, as well as the resulting effects of the automatic fluctuations of terms worth about 200 billion. the same time period. Its impact on government funds is significant in historical context, but it is assumed to be a significant angle in the business of government funds on future losses with the expected increase in debt. As more and more experience becomes available in government action, there has been an opportunity to give more specific direction to the most threatening groups. By the end of April, the government continued to introduce economics for the pandemic. This is the fourth course of action, as previously stated, but comparable packages were provided in March, April and November of last year. In 2020, financial funds for this operation were funded for the current year. The recently introduced packages include extensions and other dozens of economic operations to meet the situation. The objective is to support home and company in the final meters of the battle against the pandemic, but it has been successful in protecting the costs and the domestic demand of the last month's operations while the virus is being controlled. The options now aim to continue to protect society's foundations, to protect the survival of households and businesses, and to ensure a strong interview for the Icelandic economy. The economic scope of the latest government action is estimated at over 39 billion dollars. Actions involved in earning homes and businesses except 16.5 billion, but they are divided into 6.5 billion because of extensions of taxes and 10 billion due to the assessment of special property. At the end of the state's budget, the magnitude is about 23 billion, with a weight increase due to extension and dilation of corporate support. This teaches us a lesson from the experience of how this process works, how to expand it, how to create a new reference class for support, and how to extend it, as it has been shown in another independent assembly. The impact of these changes on the state funds is estimated to be more than 8 billion, and this is about the amount predicted to worsen. An updated plan assumes a drop in the state funds of some 328 billion dollars. or about 10.5% of GDP. In this assessment, financial and economic reassessment of earlier measures as well as additional government funds have been taken into account due to contributions on the authority to the assessment of property savings. A respectable president. I'll lead them to the main subject of the bill. As noted earlier, this bill contains proposals for new projects and additional sources on budgets that were unforeseeable or that have become urgent or inevitable. The bill remains the main focus of providing financial resources for the latest economic operations. The bill suggests an increase in budgets for relevant causes and litigation classes, which are less than 14.5 billion. This represents an increase of 1.2% from previously approved sources in the budget of the year. There are changes in budgets at 13 billion dollars. for the intervention package presented at the end of April. This is the part of the operation that cannot be funded by other financial provisions, such as the transfer of funds within the year or the use of reserves. Some 10 billion of the measures on the budget are funded through financial resources. Thereby, the expansion and dilation of services for employment that are expected to be contained within existing budgets. Estimated expenditures are over 7 billion. These are proposed changes of less than 600 million. K. due to a number of budgets that have been considered following the introduction of the pack of measures. In addition, a change in the management of nursing homes is proposed, as I will go on to see below. The vast majority of the initiatives turn to social and work markets, or about 11.6 billion dollars. Of these, additional contributions are being made to the 30th work market and unemployment, a total of 9.8 billion, which is explained by four issues. First of all, there is 4.4 billion dollars. contributions from recruitment support, but companies are now able to be funded by re-employed staff in their previous employment rate. Second, a 4.3 billion contribution for the job effort starts with the aim of creating up to 7,000 temporary jobs for long-term noncooperative and academics, in cooperation with employment, government agencies, rural society, and society. These are up to six months with jobseekers and two and a half months during the summer season for students. Third, we expect 850 million. K. a donation due to a prolongation of the period that can be used for prolongation of income-related unemployment improvements. Fourth, an increase in expenses is suggested at some 260 million. K. Due to a hundred thousand dollars. one payment for those who had been paid unemployment for the continuous period of 14 months or more on May 1. the specified conditions must have been completed. Expenditures for the topic field 29, Family issues, increase by 1.9 billion, and is clarified by three factors. First, a 1.6 billion contribution is made on the basis of child - welfare aid to meet the family of children. Second, 180 million is expected. K. for various social activities in the Social Affairs Action Programme to counteract negative effects on vulnerable groups. Third, 100 million is expected. K. a contribution to mental health care with the support of rural society and a free organization to promote services for severely mental health care people, which is part of 600 million. K. increase to mental health problems. This increases by 20 million in the field of paint 27th - disabled metals due to the reinforcement of right - court care to improve the status of those who are mature and alone, a part of which is 200 billion. K. Social management programme. It is also estimated that budgets increase by 750 million. K. in the 14th Environment Service, due to two tourism services and the proposal for an increase of 200 million donations. K. in the issue area 10, the rights of individuals, religion, and the administration of judicial cases. In part, it meets the income drop of the Red Cross in Iceland and the Landsbuster Society. In a comparable way, 120 million are expected. K. contribution due to temporary increased support to the bus bus. on subject area 11, Communication and Communication. The 35th International Development Team is proposed to provide 250 billion. K. to develop and distribute the vaccine against the Korean virus into developing countries. Iceland's contribution is expected to be 500 million. K. but that 250 million will be financed by changes in priorities within the seminary. In the end, the increase in health costs is expected to be 1,350 million. K. This will increase the financial resources of a topic area 24, extracurricular health services, an increase of 300 million. K. for mental - health procedures. The actions include hiding. in a national mental - health institution, a contract for services to those who provide cross-cutive mental - health services for children and young people, and a campaign to cope with an increase in anxiety and discomfort among children and young people. In this regard, too, 150 million are expected. K. to promote cross-cut school health and high school careers. That assumes 50 million. K. contribution to the topic field for rehabilitation because of the long-term replication of the crown virus and also for youths outside the school and job market. They are part of 600 million dollars. K. increased donations for mental health problems. In the end, a total of 1,050 million is expected. K. the increase of budgets in the subject field 25, Nurse and Rehabilitation Service. On the one hand, it is assumed that the temporary increase in nursing staff spending will be 1 billion. The requirement for the increase is that nurses agree with two-month extensions of the service contracts until the end of February 2022. Thereafter, the annual pay will be increased for the current year, but the increase will resolve at the beginning of the next year. Iceland's Hospital Insurance Convention with Nurses Hospital is completed at the end of the year, working on the agreement plans for the next contracts. To strengthen the management status of nursing homes this year, there is an extension of contracts and a temporary increase in the amount of a day's pay. This gives us more room for reexamination on the basis of nursing procedures. It is, in fact, there. Based on the analyses and extensions of the modern - day service. Other than that, I refer to further discussion of the bill's spending proposals in comments to individual lawsuits. It is the evaluation of the government that the projects that are the main element of this bill must be, not funded by contributions from the general reserve, but requested sources of special funds. This was in order to maintain the ability of the reserve fund to face unexpected expenses that may arise later in the year, such as an update to pay and prices within the year and other secondary costs that may result from the epidemic. Similarly, in view of the aims of transparency, it was considered important that new and changing government counterweapses due to the pandemic will be discussed and treatment by Congress to match previous measures. V.E.G. President. I have now considered key elements of the bill and suggested that it be followed by this discussion referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. It's a legal committee to consider the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u63	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a bill for financial support. The most remarkable part of that piece is complete silence, and the figure of the elderly is not set up in twenty - eight dollars. The elderly have not received anything, not a cent in all of Covid, and are most likely to have index elevations in the next four years if the government is in power. I'm asking the highest. Secretary of finance: 2013 He said that he was going to undo the fallout from 2009, how's that been going? He also spoke of it in a letter to cut off income ties. Is it in here, or is it a promise for the next government, if he can make it?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u64	A respectable president. I missed not hearing from what I heard. A candidate's exact status in a pandemic that would have affected the elderly in particular so that they were affected in such a way that their terms would have been ignored so that they would have to improve their efforts by means of public donations. How, though, has it been possible to fulfill what was said back before the election in 2013? It's been going well. We had every decrease in basics. It was extremely important. Gradually, we took all the left management impairments back from 2009 to 2013. Not only did we use the terms to make a basic change in the system which makes it easy to look up to have returned improved, large-scaled, commercial resources of social security. We've made 300,000 bucks. free income market in fiscal tax, which is particularly helpful to this group. [[The president calls.]] We had the property tax taken from us, which was not good for those in our own homes, so we've done what we talked about.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u65	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister of finance answers, but I cannot help but disagree deeply with him. It just doesn't make sense. It's almost 50% of what these people are owed. And he's asking. What in Covid has caused people to leave behind? Yes, there was. It was so much housing failure. The construction of the social security system gets 10% less than minimal pension and cuts against a dollar. These people are starving. They can't get a cent. They've been locked up, they're sick, they can't get a cent. The old people who were locked up for a year and had to order food and so on a minimum pension, these people haven't got a dollar. And I ask, "Why on earth are these people left behind and not getting a cent?" These are the people who built the land, and if there had been money somewhere, there would have been money for these people, and I know about people who just starve because the government hasn't seen a decent thing in helping these people.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u66	A respectable president. What I was calling after was an example of the pandemic especially affecting the provisional foods of those who are being considered here, who are pensioners. Hv. A senator did not give a single example of the fact that the pandemic, the Korean epidemic, had been bitten by the decrees. However, he continues to criticize the system itself. All right, there's a general talk about social security. There is no question, though, that we have been adding. We have a new economic growth in the past few years to help with those who rely on social security benefits. There is no doubt that the purchase power of the benefits paid there has never been greater than that of modern times. That's what matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u67	Mr. President. There's a lot of waitings at the Land Hospital. There are a total of 3,625 individuals waiting for surgery, 1,095 persons waiting for mental - health services, and 131 children waiting for services to be served in BUGL. In fact, waiting lists have grown in the time of the crown virus and will likely be prolonged as a result of a shorter workweek. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister whether or not there's a contact at the highest level. Government to handle these matters and make it a special case for Covid to shorten the waiting list. We know people waiting for e.g. joint surgery knows that it suffers during the wait. These lists need to be addressed. I'm going to ask you something. I'm gonna do it from the top. Minister, that more of the pieces take on this case in a financial committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u68	A respectable president. It is hard to see that there has been some unexpected, unexpected incident regarding the situation at the hospital requiring intervention in the middle of a budget year with a financial bill. However, we have had extra funds to cope with a pandemic. I agree with what. A senator that I cannot help but describe a measure of anxiety, and in many cases serious concern, because we do not shorten a waiting list so that we will be adequate and even have to send to other countries people who should be given surgery in Iceland. I think that's gonna take a deeper view than that, so we don't make any other decision than that, you know, putting many new billions into it. We need to ask ourselves: " How have the billions whom we have last put into it been sufficient to work on the same problem? The latest report on this subject did not have a good history. She said, "You've put more crowns in the jury, you've hired more people, but you don't get any more production."
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u69	Mr. President. We know well that there is a possibility that there may be other surgical procedures, e.g. in the hospital at Acdéri and Akureyri, when it comes to replacement. Perhaps the National Hospital could be assigned to handle contracts with other institutions to take down this list. I found it shocking to read a memo from the National Hospital to the Ministry of Health, which was now compiled in February. That certainly provides a clue to the need to deal with these issues. But I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if it has never occurred to you at the government table to extend the unemployment period. Today, there are 6,500 people who have been unemployed for more than 12 months, even when unemployment is going down. There are still 20,000 people out of work in Iceland. It is assumed that 13,000 people will be out of work here in 2023. [[The president calls.]] Tells you the highest. Ministers don't have to deal with long-term noncooperativeness, these people won't all get jobs and they're in a financial situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u70	A respectable president. I'm worried about my unemployment, but it's like what I'm talking about. A senator pointed out that unemployment is currently shrinking. Two recent predictions we saw have told us, on the other hand, that the level of employment will be comparable to that of the pandemic as early as next year and that it will occur in 2023 C.E. So here we are talking about a period of approximately 12◯24 months. where we can get back the job phase from before the Covid pandemic. That would be remarkable if it were to happen immediately next year, but it would be based on the powerful resistance we have even received. showing in terms of government money. Social Affairs has been making changes to the labour market talk, which is part of this matter, and I feel that they have been reasonable and balanced, and I support that whole mind. I think they're gonna matter, and they're gonna be effective to react to the situation the way it is today.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u71	President. The financial secretary here speaks of minimizing damages, but the number of epidemics leading up to this year grew unemployment despite the government's aim to react equally. A financial minister also says that there is now the experience of government action that capitals can be directed to the right person, now at the end of the epidemic. It is what we called from the beginning that a better article would be made to determine the success of government funds. There was never any answer. Today, experience in the past year shows how it is good to use money in this condition. This financial bill clearly shows that this is a work market and unemployment of 10 billion. Unemployment was increasing, and even though we should respond to the same reaction, was nothing done until now, is it not a little late?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u72	A respectable president. No, I don't think it's too late. I believe that it is absolutely right for us to take the wave just by the way the ship depends, and that's what we've done. We've built on the best available information. We've been ready to revise our actions. And then what has it done? Let us see, for example. in the first quarter of the year, the private consumption in Iceland was compared to the first quarter of the previous year. This is very different in other lands. We see examples in the first quarter production of other countries, including In Germany and Norway, it may be up to 10% short of your private intake compared to the first quarter of last year while we're just keeping and doing better than that. I believe this is evidence that the operations have worked and there is no problem now with measures that will eliminate the uncertainty of the future and adapt, e.g. the penances that take into account how the options have been used.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u73	President. Right now, it's the highest word. Secretary of finance to eliminate uncertainty. This was what we asked about a year ago, that it was the government's job to eliminate uncertainty. At that time, the government postponed a financial program on how to deal with and after the crown - virus epidemic. Now we have a financial program where there is no policy on how to get out of the epidemic, that just says not to take some action at some point 2020 or later. We don't know exactly what to do, but it has to be done. We just hope for the best. It is government policy after all, and at the end of the epidemic, there is now to be some uncertainty and uncertainty is about to disappear anyway. I can't quite figure out this arrangement unless it's being fulfilled that we've been talking about since the beginning, that it's a nightly conference. They're going to respond to something just accepted, that's what was done, but not in the exact way. It is only now that this can be made more accurately because uncertainty has disappeared from the epidemic anyway. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u74	A respectable president. I like it. A senator talks as if he could've just stood here a year ago and said, "Hey, this is how it's gonna be. This vaccine will be given to you by the end of the year. We'll go so high in infections, and then it'll work like this here and elsewhere, this will go queer. Of course, things were never like that. We've been confused. We have had to give as much knowledge of the future as possible to companies and households at any given time. But we could not answer for the fulfillment of the watch. There was never a chance. It would have been foolish to make decisions a year ago, saying: "We will not reconsider our position because we know how all of this works out. We've gone another way, we've done what we could, and it was sensible on the basis of the best information each time, and then we come and act and change and appreciate, learn from experience, etc. and there's nothing to be ashamed of. Yes, we come back now to eliminate uncertainty, e.g. about asking for strength into the future, and we react on the basis of experience back in time. [[The president calls.]] This is normal. There was no one who predicted the exact way this would play out. But we can now see that we have been doing better than almost everyone else.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u75	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance for the speech. I just wanted to come to the side of a government fund that continues to increase, and the result is negative about 328 billion times, or it's going to be that way this year after the actions under consideration. There are great challenges ahead. How's the top? Is there a secretary of finance to see that this palace will be arrived, that we will reach the angle? It has often been referred to as the key element of tourism, and there are predictions of approximately 2 million tourists next year and so the next year. However, the tourism service has said that these predictions are all too optimistic and that they are very dangerous. This was shown at a meeting of the Board of Shepherds with traveling representatives. If the highest. In the years to come, a minister may briefly introduce himself to the way he envisions to reach that angle. This is of utmost importance because, as we know, "the treasure of the land " is affecting many of the economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u76	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. A senator's concern is the balance of state funds. But I do believe that it is right to use the terms of the government with such force in the present circumstances. The financial program we were agreeing with here earlier today is a guard on the way back to the state's balance where the debt collection will be terminated. It is not a policy for the crew to be expected in 5 C.E., but we must aim to do better than the underlying economic forecasts will enable us to lay the groundwork for such a strategy. So the goal as I look at it is to stimulate an even more economic growth than economic forecasts today assume that this will be more rapid, and it will support the closing of the sheepfold. But we need to give ourselves a few years to do so. This period of time, we'll bridges with borrowing and selling property, and it's crucial that we lay low the budgets of a weapon that is credible to us that we can earn our way back out of a massive battle. [[The president calls.]] For optimism and not optimism, all I'm saying about travel is that we always exceeded all forecasts for almost a decade when tourism was growing around 20% every year. [[The president calls.]] I have great faith in the growth capacity of the sector.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u77	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. It is very important that we make use of all the income we can in situations like this. Here's a memo for the financial and financial aid we're dealing with here. It is an overview on page 8. 6 Interesting. It states that in terms of income, the decline in the bank tax was rushed. This is a loss of income for a state fund of 5.7 billion dollars. This year. I'd like to hear from the highest. Minister: What economic benefits to national preparation does he feel that this decline has actually yielded, and for the general population? Have the bank services dropped? Has the highest. A minister notices what the bank's share is? Now, one bank returned over 12 billion dollars. But at the same time, he said to 20 people: Count the highest. Ministers that this was a successful conclusion and that it brought back what they thought would be delivered or hoped it would come through, those who followed it?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u78	A respectable president. Yeah, I agree with what. A senator's concern is that the table is very interesting because it shows and draws together the overall resources of the operations we have taken in the past two years, the year before and this year. In particular, in regard to the bank tax, I have always felt that it would be right to let the temporary tax - the tax that was introduced as a temporary operation - run its course and let the financial activity in this country live under general business conditions, such as other companies. What has it done? Well, there was a much better development in the financial system along with what the late bank did. It was not only a bank tax that was dropped but also a whole supply of funds that reduced the balance of the financial system and reduced other requirements that made it possible for the financial system to survive in households and businesses. And we have seen historical failures in the financial system, in terms of homes or businesses, and little of major problems.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u79	A respectable president. We're dealing with government funds. V.E.G. The secretary of finance insisted that no one in history was at large, as had been entered into the social security system as in the long term of this government. It's amazing. But why on earth then, e.g. those with reduced farms to collect $200,000. After taxes, insurgents, and insurmounts a dollar on top of it? Why, on the other hand, are the standard striped pay at the worst in the pensioner's population at about 220,000,220,000 p.m.? Because of impairment. All that is inserted into this system flows through the pockets of those who live in this miserable system and live right back to the state fund. That's the fact. That's why it's not coming back. That's what the government knows. That's why she scurrys because of how much she's moving into the system and she never talks about how severe she's getting. I'm able to inform you that in response to me, the Minister of Social Affairs and Child Services... the government has increased the reductions to more than 5 billion a year, 20 billion. So they say, we put in 30 billion. Why did that not work out? Because it's a flow system where capital runs into the pockets of those who are supposed to get it but then goes through and back into the state fund because of the tremendous impairment. We can see, and have been allowed to see from reports and elsewhere, how devastating these declines are. What you get, e.g. Every 100,000 bucks. From a pension fund? $26,000. If you're lucky, even less if you're unlucky, because the amount can cut in more places, go to chain damage all over the system, and end up in zero. That's why I didn't say so long ago in the symposium that it would be like getting a billion in cash and having only 260 million. Then someone said to me: " 260 million is much more than I will ever have in my life, and I'd be happy about it. The fact is, however, that after 800 million, the profiter receives a billion people. Let's turn this thing around. Would these individuals accept just having to hold back after 260 million, or even nothing? These individuals are not far better off and in a much better position to endure such enormous taxes and restrictions than a person with over 200,000 dollars. paid for a month? Nobody lives by it, nobody takes it. It's a starving policy, and it's totally pathetic to know that we're in that situation. We must not forget, for example. to the maximum. The secretary of finance promised to undo the damages of men, which were just about 30% but are now up to 50%. It means in English that the worst in the system gets 50% less than they should be, and therefore they are tightening and tightening the duct. When you look at what the government is doing, you get really dumb. When you look at the financial program and then this money, you see black on the whites who are left behind. What may be the most amazing part of this is what we see, for example. In the case of nursing homes, which have required financial support. They're older people who've built this country. The situation is that one household after another is giving up the business. It says that 3 billion are missing. And what does the government do? It gives one third of it and no solutions permanently. The same government is starving the system so that we are year after year with 1,000 children on the waiting list for health care. But at the same time that we have a system like that, we're shoveling money in free media. Private media has become privateized by the media, and in these cases probably 400 million have been put to mule them so that they do not speak against the government at the next election. It's a little hard to hit the hand that gives birth. Consider an example. There are 1,000 million in the media and minks, food for minks, but we're starving the system, the children's system. It's unsatisfactory. At the same time, we send, for Covid, people in operations, and we paid the cost of three operations instead of one. The government is completely mistaken. We see reality in all the examples. The reality appears to us in the education system, in the health system, and we see this particularly severe and painful situation in children. Ten percent of young people in Iceland have considered attempting suicide, which tells us that something really wrong in the system. It also tells us that we must start setting priorities. Sadly, though, it is not on the agenda of this government, and as a result, waiting classes will be extended. The consequences are disastrous. Because they have been frightening and have continued to be frightening, unfortunately, it is the only hope for the system and for those in the situation that this government does not retain control over the next four years. It is quite remarkable to see the mismanagement of money. Then there is another source of incredible anxiety. That is what will happen if the government continues to rule and begin dealing with the budget. Does anyone think that the first thing the government does when it begins to take over is to raise contributions to older citizens, desperate people, unemployed and low-payers, to make up for 50% of that money? No way. It will be cut down first, as the board has shown so far, with all kinds of tricks that it's putting so much into the system. It's a repetitive system, a tectonic mechanism that has a decline all over the world, which causes state and even rural society to receive much of the money they put back into the system. It must be said just as it is that the saddest part of all this, as I crossed over with the highest. The secretary of finance before, in these budgets, is part of the 28th case of the elderly, that the government has the balls to put a complete zero there. Covid has made monographs for the unemployed and these were put in monopolies for disability. And why in the world do you think the government put in a single payment of taxes and inadequacy? She therefore admitted exactly what I have held out here. If she hadn't had the tax and demeaning monopolitan... it would have been only a violation, even nothing, slipped into the pockets of those who needed it. The government knows, and showed in black and white that she knows exactly what she's doing when she puts her place, is my job to say, a world record of how much she puts into the system. But it's like I say, they also take care never to show how much they take back in more impairment. There's no question that there's been a cover-up. They are being deceived, and they are serious because they are trying to deceive people who have lived a long time and who live in a very poor condition. The saddest part is that in this system, we have thousands of children. And we know what was foretold for the last election. Everyone here was going to receive a cent in return. How did that end? Sixty-five dollars against a dollar, which does nothing, is not a product of any created object except trouble and failure in the system. So this system is the only way to get a connection to it is to reset it. There's a stop and a 0's set. Surprisingly, I've done many social and child - care ministers why, on the other hand, it's not the right way to get the right way to the things people need, food, clothing, shelter, so they can live a decent life. Why is this not done on earth? It also tells us that the government doesn't want to do this because if it were to do the right thing, it would find that it's somewhere around 350,000. a month of tax and inadequacy. That would be what the system would be like if it were calculated from 1988 when the local pay was recorded. If the recalculation was both personal discount and baloney, and during that period, then we would be somewhere in that place. I can totally say that after living in this system that it would completely change the circumstances of a large group of people, especially children, who are in a shitty situation. The funds, in this system, are not dealing with any problems these people face, they are not trying to add to the system just so that people don't have to line up after meals. How pathetic is it that we stay here year after year? This government has been here for four years and through Covid, where people did not even get out of the house, they could not even shop for the necessities of life, but had to be sent out with the appropriate costs and therefore did not have money. They're people who didn't have money after the first day of the month, let alone at the end of the month. It is, in effect, an evil system that has, unfortunately, been built up by government by government. The 4th party has built this system up and maintained it. It does not seem to change who is in power within or who are attached to the four. It will be, and it's the only way if we're going to change this, to get this government out of the way and keep this government from being a member of the so-called Four, that's the only way, because it's a tendency for them to maintain this system. It's as if they've grown up, because nobody seems afraid to deal with it. But one thing is clear. The crowd says, "Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, We have the balls to deal with it. We have solutions. We have a recommendation for about 350,000 bucks. IRS and incompetent. We have suggestions to deal with the health, education system, so that no child needs to live in poverty or starve, that children are not forgotten and buried on a waiting list until it is too late to do something for them. We will continue to fight for them, and we will say: " The people first, then all the rest. ' Especially do we need to be clear that children should never have to wait for action or wait for justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u80	A respectable president. I love chasing faults in the law. When I see something that's defective, things don't fit in my head and I have to fix them. That's exactly what the social security law means. A senator is very diligent in his pursuit. It has shown what I asked the Senate research and information agency to give me a overview of, how prices have developed since social security laws were accepted in 1997, how pay and prices have been developed, and how public security pensions have developed at the same time. When you compare it in white, you can see that the pensions of social security have increased beyond inflation. Great, great. That basic law on social security is met, pensions can at least not raising less than prices. Although it has not been a special year, the overall cost of social security has increased more than the price. But when you look at pay development, the pensions are 50% lower. As per the social insurance law, as you understand the text when you read it, social security bills should not increase less than prices, or pay development if they are higher than the price of climate change. There is a disintegration, and the current government is in control after four years that it has been 5.7% during this terms. There is an average increase of one year in pay markets where pay has increased by an average of more than 6% per year since the turn of the century. One increase in pay over this terms has fallen away for this group, and this is the group that can't go into collective agreements asking for a higher salary than in elections. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u81	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's offer for the counterargument and cannot help but agree deeply with him. But it's forgotten that not only is it where the dog is buried, as you say, but it's also in the person's discount. What has been done to him? He has also failed to accept a price or a reward. These two play together. I've often wondered about this system, especially when I was living in this system, how the system can function as it happened back then. Fortunately, taxation and the limit to car strength, drug strength, and so forth ceased. That's when I ran into that amazing account thing that you can get 15,000 bucks. but lost 20,000 bucks. which, of course, should not be possible. And I asked myself, " How can we first build a system like this, second, let such a system continue, and thirdly add to this system, actually create new ones? ' You see, this is the basis for what we have to deal with, as has been shown in the defenses of the secretary of finance and the government that they have put so much into this system. But they've been careful to do it right, not for the people who're supposed to get it. They do so in this way because they know that money goes through the pockets of these people and that most of the money goes into the pocket of the state fund again. That sucks. The people involved, older citizens, and desperate people, are people who have no lawsuits, and unfortunately both the labor movement and the government, after the government, have forgotten these people.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u82	A respectable president. I went through a little mind - playing, ▪thougth expression, as English puts it, with regard to these lawsuits, the matters of disability, and the elderly. Because of how the impairment system works, like the whale. There's a senator who described it, and there's 15,000 he can get. an increase that would cut the whole population by 20,000 K, that literally means, very ironic, that if we were to give 1,000 billion extra to these groups, we would make 180 billion. It's so crazy to think it in such a way that the system works like this. This is what has been called a living room and a poverty trap. People can't move because they don't pay because they lose money. We have a double screw in progress where, on the other hand, year after year, there is no rise in pay development, which has caused 50% of the global social security spending, and so on, if people are going to try to get to some level, everything is gone and they don't have anything after all. It is the work of the government. It is the work of the government that interprets the law in this way, and it is consciously done by the Generals not to correct it. Governments can be listed for years in the past. I want to be fair and out of the parentheses of the fall, 2009-2013, doing other things that were going on and doing wrong, but in accordance with guidelines, etc. There were some impairments that shouldn't have been in, but you live and learn, and you want to understand what it was like back then. We now have economics that counsel us not to be restricted because it is simply a poverty trap.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u83	A respectable president. Yes, these impairments - we must not forget that after the fall of the year, pensions were dropped by 10%, and the government promised that the first thing that would be done when it was better to take them back and correct them. It was betrayed, and it is also part of the package. There seems to be a tendency to do so, and I fear the most, that when someone in the quadruped into power and has an abolt in the government, he goes in gear to maintain this system. It's sad because I think that if we took our place, we could do exactly the right living, decent living and everything, and a zero-adjusted system. We could, for example. first, say we weren't going to take all the impairments because we weren't going to pay the high-prior anything. We could start with the averages of the country, start cutting down there. Today we're talking about about about about... 800,000 k. In the average wage and if it's the average wage for the country, we'll have to give a question mark that some people are trying to figure out the rights of $200,000. and that this government has succeeded in taking not only 10% of the decrease in farms, below the lowest pension, but also that it has been able to reimburse a cent on this group again. And it cost the government much more than if she hadn't. She paid to put a penny in front of a bank to make out the worst part of society. It's really weird, and I just think I'm gonna do research.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u84	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u85	President. A bill to the budget of 2021 arrived early this year. Then the government began to offer a lot of suggestions on all kinds of action to meet the Korean epidemic, certain work - market operations that looked very good, and were a little what was being called after, getting people involved in functional and professional activities. But we had just agreed to the budget and financial programs, and I scratched my head a lot and wondered where the funds for all this new operation were. It's very strange to finish the budget and financial programme, and then just briefly thereafter suggest a lot of new measures to adapt things to the epidemic. Why wasn't this just part of the financial or financial process? It was very strange, so I inquired about where the funds were for everything here. The answers were informal and on the way that there were some financial resources for this in reserves and leftover measures that did not work, e.g. A bridge loan that expected more money to be used, but then it was used because that operation simply did not work. But this is so complicated by the way government funds are going to work, where the government's government, the legislature legislature laws, explain how much money is needed to take on government action and what effect it is expected of. What does the government expect, e.g. to reduce unemployment during the planned period with the effort to start work? We are told how much it costs, but we are never given a plan to make the operation work. It is fundamental that we can assess the effectiveness of the use of public funds that governments have a responsibility under government laws on public finances to explain to us the effects. This is exactly where nearly 10 billion people are being proposed for employment marketing, and there are 7,000 jobs to be made up of. But, as far as I understand, that budget runs out around the election. What? What's the safety of this? I hope that those in the part-way improvement route who are to revolve the same capital, will continue to work 100%. But there are not so many people today after all. This financial bill is just an example of what the government plan to do with the same meaning. That means they'll react afterwards, after the damage is done, certainly in smaller steps, but to wait for a whole year to see what happens and then react, always after. What we point to at the beginning of the epidemic is that we have to look at the situation, how we want to change it for the better in the near future, how we will react to the action being carried out, how we will be affected by it, and so on, and how we will deal with it three months later, or something similar, if it did and what will be done instead if it did not work. At the beginning of the epidemic, the talk was very clear. Everyone came and said, "We expect this to be a V-shaped epidemic, that we go down fast, but quickly up again. " And that is what all the plans of the government were made, let us keep it clear, which is good and blessed for ourselves. However, there were warning voices heard here and in the corners that the stage could be worse, that it would not be a vaccine until this time of the year, which was very soon. For the first time, a surgeon said that it might take two or four years to remind me until a vaccine arrived. This was according to the old method of making vaccines. If that had been the situation, we'd be there, for example. not yet vaccinated. This shows us what the problem is in black and white. It was expected of a V-shaped swing, fast down and up again and no plan B. What happens and what happens to the government if the epidemic becomes a so-called U-shaped epidemic where we go down fast, will be there for a while and then go up quickly? Or the L-shaped epidemic, as it's called, where we go fast down and we just stay that way. Looks like we're going into some kind of long U-age. [[Up front.]] -J-fiftills, that's a good suggestion from when. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy. I like that--and though, this is kind of the reverse J, it's the other way around, it needs to be stretched. This took a year, and if the scientific development of vaccines had been followed, in preparation for new vaccines, it would have been possible to guess with reasonable certainty that the vaccines had been ready for a year's ago. It was the standard for new types of vaccine and, in fact, with the vaccines made by the old method, which took nine months of swine influenza, something like that, to provide. That was a record at the time. So there were many reasons for starting to expect a vaccine in January, and there should have been a basic picture in all government procedures. We pointed this out at the start of the epidemic. This meant that the first programs of the government were wrong. They overdosed. This was then clearly seen when the government's government proposed a change, especially in innovation, where the government proposed the first budget of 1.5 billion, that they would do quite well with it. That amount went on a lot of projects. The government's situation took a little closer look and suggested 9 billion. The government revised its position and doubled its contribution to innovation, up to 3 billion. Let us see what this difference means. The government set up 3 billion in innovation just to meet increasing unemployment. This is the operation you want to go to to help build new employment and build up future employment. The other measures were very temporary in these building projects, which include transport projects, etc., temporary projects that do not create permanent jobs, but are temporary. It's good and blessed too, but making permanent jobs is what we had in this epidemic from the beginning, although only because it's a good sustainable way of doing it, because we had too few major employment support. So it would be good for both a good Covid operation and a general procedure to contribute to innovation. The result of agreeing to this 3 billion government, not to 9 billion government opposition, is clearly seen in the summer distributions of the Technical Development Fund, in which only 8% of the stories were accepted. It wasn't money for any more. The attendance, the ideas from all over the country, was simply much greater. And they were good applications. It wasn't just junk applications, it was far from here. A big plan showed that 9 billion were able to provide all the funding for successful projects into the Technical Development Fund and then in the wider fields of other innovations. The government situation made a realistic suggestion into the crowning virus epidemic. Here, the secretary of finance is showing off because we are doing better than all the other countries around us. Good and blessed, I'll agree with that, though, the government has played a significant role in this epidemic to get an increase in innovations from 1.5 billion to 3 billion, just to the nose. We also contributed to more for our first investment plan. At least we together, the General, achieved the success of being better than all the other countries around us. Even so, the biggest damage we see from government policy and what we did not achieve in government opposition - is because the government simply didn't believe us and wasn't ready to look at the ideas we proposed, despite our laying them out in advance that it would be better to have more space than needed to use them. Mantran, with the government, wanted to limit themselves to the funds that could be used. But it's fine to suggest more. We can offer exactly 40 billion financial resources in case there is room for it to be used. Since not used 20 billion, they are only returned, no problem. We used as much as we could, great. However, the conclusion was that there was not all the space used, either in the sectoral ideas that came from our rural society or in the innovation tools we had, none. There is a difference between the situation today, which is certainly better than in neighboring countries, and the proposals of government opposition, which would have led to less unemployment as the Korean epidemic developed, less unemployment now, less need for action now, because we would simply be in a better place. It's really hard to prove. I'm trying to make this as clear and as clear as I can feel because there is no diagnosis. The government had no diagnostics. This is a post-hoc analysis of what we're offering. We can see this, for example. in the nature of the spread of Technical Development Fund. It's a justification to be able to say, "Look, we were right. But even if we had been suggesting too much money that wouldn't have been used, we would have known. We did not have to use all of it, but it was as useful as possible. However, the government contributed a lot of different measures, such as bridge loans, etc., which were not all used. It was an inaccurate use of public funds that we actually spent time making and nothing was made of. There was a lot of sports like that back and forth, since it was not taken into account how an enterprise owns e.g. property, not how different companies have been paying off or then making more money, not really direct support to those who were unemployed to create their own potential. Piratar and I had ideas that we would simply have conditions of unemployment, where time would be used for those who were already on unemployment benefits, either to get a job or a job for some time to make something new. That would be just a new force for individuals whose condition is perfectly normal. It would have been less unemployment. Although the cost would not have decreased, it would have made possible production and prospects, which is what we were looking for, and it was our goal from the start. However, that did not prove true because we have a government that does not know how to show success and cannot listen.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u86	A respectable president. I'd like to come in and talk to each other. paritaprevir Björn Leví, the son of Gunnarsson, spoke of a work order. I was thinking about these work plans and the way the government has completely screwed up that case. First, there was work strategy, where everyone would be able to work and receive 307,000 dollars. It's unemployment, it's just come and work. Then, an offer of 470,000 dollars began to be added suddenly. Plus a 11% pension fund. Most amazing of all, those who found a job and were willing to enter that system were denied it. They were fences and even fences for students. The most amazing thing about them making money for students was that students who've been working their way into this fund and getting nothing from it. They don't get the right they already put the money in. So I ask. A senator's decision to determine whether this type of work strategy is not just a general failure of the government because she did not think it through. It starts at one end and turns into another. It's quite remarkable with these 7,000 jobs, and I don't think they've reached half of them yet, putting fences on the worst people on social reforms, rather than saying to everyone who's on the social network: come, you may enter this problem, just to get people to work only. In the case of married couples, only 340 thousand will be allowed. ... beforeit'sgoingtoss it down to the full. If this was to help people, they should have taken down all the fences instead of having it all so depressed that those who didn't want it, and it would be difficult to get others into the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u87	President. Yes, this is exactly what I think is the most important thing in all this code here. The government is nowhere ready to boast of its own accomplishments, since they are few and far between. As I look at this, the government will perform some workforce and say it will solve the problem, but then it will not explain the benefits of the operation, how much of the problem they solved. Then you have to conclude that if it was, it really wasn't going to solve the problem. A senator realizes this difference over there. When we ask the benefit of going to this operation, rather than anyone else, the answers are always: We put a lot of money into it. But that's not what I'm asking. I don't care how much money you put into the operation if you can't tell me how much it was. If you put 100 billion into it, what came out of it? Did it make 120 billion? Were some value, or were they created, or were they made something similar to another cost that would have been met? If this operation had not been completed, would it have cost up to 50 billion, but since the operation was performed for 40 billion were saved 10 billion? What's the match? We'll never get that kind of explanation. Why should we accept legal documents when we do not know what their success is? And why should we accept answers when asking about the results of action, such as: We put 10 billion into this? I know it was done, but what we got from it was to be the answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u88	A respectable president. That's where I think we've come to that right now. A senator earlier said that when he was talking about the government and the virus, it's kind of a burden on her, so she cannot explain what the measures are. The government would explain this if the resources returned something and she knew it, but instead it is merely a ram's explanation. It tells itself that if they had a standard that showed that all operations had worked very well, they would have every number downtroddened. But they have no answers because they know it's just lucky and reckless action. Then they give thanks for all the money they received from it, but they may not have returned anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u89	President. This is exactly the problem of guessing. What the government has actually done to the entire epidemic is to guess that the measures taken will solve the problem. But when you guess, there is no reference to whether this was the right guess or not. All right, you can guess. But we have a government, a professional administration that's supposed to go through politicians' speculations and weigh their effects. But neither did we. The minister should see to it that the management board plays its role and gives these analyses to the council because here we make decisions about these funds, whether or not we should go to the government's budget or to any other authority. We want to make good use of public funds, and we want to use it for a job that works but we don't want to do well: this is northbound, so let's use this method.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u90	Mr. President. If I remember correctly, it's about a month later. The government introduced its last Covid package and we're receiving the budget bill, which is due to cover the cost of their actions, today. Today, in addition to this assembly meeting day, after six meetings during this election season. The committees are involved in the work of 60 presidency cables and five Parliamentary decrees. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the council how he feels about his ability to organize. Governments in this regard and whether this bill we're talking about here is not too late if it's supposed to run out of business. Because, of course, we do not complete all these 65 cases of government that are included in the committees, that is obvious, and why. Government officials have not informed us of the priority in this regard. But this bill we're discussing here must be very early on their list of priorities. Counts 'em out. A senator may have been thinking that they wouldn't bring up a financial bill and somehow think that the money market was just up in the councils and not here?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u91	A respectable president. This was the question that came right up in my head when I first saw the government introduce their actions. I didn't realize where the funds were available for the financial operations. I began to inquire about it informally, and on very informal terms, I found the answer that there were financial warrants for all of this, e.g. in a general reserve. However, the general reserve does not go on with this kind of funding. Rather, it is for us to deal with unforeseen unexpected expenses. We had just agreed to the budget when there were ideas about this. It would simply have been possible to have some kind of operation on budgets to cover their financial resources. But the answer I received was that the funds were available or that they would somehow be set between us so that they would not need to be given any new legal means. It is very clear that the budget is at the council, and when the government is going to create new measures, and this is the key, they need to discuss these actions at the council and be granted legal resources for them in particular. It's a key element in the budget and the legal authority that it's respected. And, yes, the answers I received in view of the actions I saw in the government's idea sheet did not conflict with the government's obligation to bring up new ideas of costliness and successes to the council to provide financial resources. It was simply to scrap money from within the framework, as it always is, and thus somehow, it was intended to be the sole purpose of the European Commission to operate and do as it seemed, thus completely breaking the obvious wall that is supposed to be between the capital and the European Commission. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u92	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Now we're gonna get this bill done in time. The budget and a memo from the National Hospital to the Ministry of Health, it is that the waiting lists have increased between 2020 and 2021. I think it's very serious what the situation is there. In February 3,625 individuals were on the waiting list for surgery, over 1,000 were waiting for mental - health care services, and 131 children were waiting for an operation on BUGL. This is a very serious situation. I want to ask you why. A senator will see if he is not willing to join me in trying to convince more of the effort to make some adjustments in order to meet that challenge.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u93	A respectable president. What a fine example of how public financial law works today! There is a policy on waiting lists in a financial programme from the government. We have no idea what it will cost because it is not an expense analysis, but the results are likely to be successful. We are not allowed to see the situation in a financial program. She's got, like, a whisk. A senator pointed out that it got worse, but it didn't get better. This means that, within the laws on public finances, the government could adjust, transfer between, and so on, in order to respond to the increased need for improvement in these policies, especially in the area of a waiting list, without specifically asking for financial authority because there is already a warrant for these policies and these results. But then the government has to explain if in some way the budget is exceeded, and the reserve may not be enough, and it may have to go for extra money if the payment is much higher.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u94	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir A fine speech is given to Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. The Senator spent a considerable part of his time talking about innovation, essential and important things, and regarding Covid. We can, as it were, take longer discussions about it. In fact, I believe that, and I think we share it, regarding innovation that when it comes to creation, it does not necessarily involve Covid but is literally vital for us to cultivate more. But because there was a pretty big deal for Covid, like many others here, I'd like to think about one thing. Aside from labour market operations, there are two single-change cost measures involved in the financing of environmental tourism in which there is an increase of 750 million to meet the government's decision on so-called travel. Then, according to the explanation, the 1.5 billion that were last used only half the time and if all of this is now being used, the rest will be picked up. This is about the same time as we can see from a successful vaccination campaign that tourism is building up. Some other assistance may be needed and injected into tourism but this is correct, i.e. Travel, as the example of last year's tour shows. I think nursing procedures might suggest a little bit of eye -lining, if we take the telescope and look beyond and watch the stage with little regard to Covid. It is providing a billion people into a single hole, i.e. a hole that has been formed due to insufficient spending, and it is now possible to be in the range of 3◯4 billion. I would like to hear thoughts at ease. A senator - I missed the opportunity to have a place to speak at the highest level. The secretary of finance so that this is just a substitute from a budget board - whether this money, the travel check, might have been better spent trying to stop into this hole, which is made up of insufficient financial resources in the nursing home management, if it might have had a later angle. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u95	President. First of the nursing home: Nurse's status is virtually the same as at the beginning of the season. Nothing in that situation has happened. In fact, a bunch of nurses are being built, but they do not see a blow on water. It is the setting of the material challenges, and it is still this problem with the budgets where the majority of nursing homes are thrown into the background. There was a report that actually told us nothing about its reasons. This billion in nursing and rehabilitation services is absolutely necessary, but it is also with the awareness that the nursing home accepts the extension of a contract to the end of February 2022, which I understand in certain respects in order to create some kind of room ahead of election. Still, setting the condition is strange. I'd rather see it indiscriminate: Here's a billion to February 2020. You don't have to agree to anything, it's just the budget to help out. As to whether it would have been good to put the move on to these fields instead of putting money in the tourism service, I don't think it's a question of either or. I think both are the answer. I don't think it's uncouth politics to let people hire only how it hires public funds. It's a matter of stock. It's like that. There, people pick out which part of their strength to travel. But if it's the right amount and something like that, it's just a political decision. [[The president calls.]] Suppose this is enough for now, at least I think it's a good idea, but I don't like setting it up as either or. [[The president calls.]] I think both are necessary in there.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u96	President. I appreciate the answers. I would like to go over that May 1 of the past went into effect or log in an ensuing period of work, clearly with the related costs that are not yet met. This is part of the nursing home's problems they see up to now, clearly during the period of time. A senator talks about and forwards, and this is also part of the waiting list problem of the Land Hospital that came to talk before, that had had to be closed. You can't work because these managers are faced with a solution that leaves the money set aside for the pay amount to distribute in fewer ways in light of the decrease in working time. So I wondered, " This is a large part of the workforce. ' This is not to say that there is a pattern of making money to meet such contracting elevations or short - term work hours, which include fewer hours of work. [[The president calls.]] But count 'em why. A senator that is likely to arrive at the work of a legal committee when it comes to the budget? [[The president calls.]] Does he feel that he wants to be on the committee to discuss this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u97	President. I'm gonna allow me to doubt that there will be some sound base for it. This is a very interesting problem, however, because the biographer contracts with both shortening weeks of work and raise costs have quite a bearing on people who are less paid, all of whom work in nursing homes. There are a proportion of more low - paying employees than they should be. At the same time, average pay development, increase to the topic areas and institutions, etc. and if it's done for the causes of low-payers in general, there's less money available to them than the biographies demand. So we're seeing problems not only because of abbreviated work week but also because of the difference between a dollar increase and general labour development in financial resources in all sectors. [[The president calls.]] It's complicated. [[The president calls.]] This is a 6.5 billion problem in the 27 and 28 languages field, for example, so this problem is ongoing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u98	Mr. President. There are many challenges to economic management in the country. We look forward to a large exchange of state funds, which, if approved here, will increase to over 8 billion dollars. Then, inflation is measured as high as 2013 and growth is increasing. It's all that concern. I'll agree with it here. As the bill says, the most important part of the project turns to social and work-offs. The unemployment and workforce is setting up 9.8 billion dollars. All of this is necessary. I agree with that. This is where the campaign starts, and then there are recruitment grants to companies that I've been speaking for and moving special changes in the last budget. To cope with a lot of unemployment in the Southnes, we made adjustments in budgets to add considerable funds to employment grants. Such support is a good tool that can be used by employers to hire an employee who has been looking for employment and who has been funded for most of the pay paid for six months. It's a good plan. There is also an extended period of income - related unemployment. All of these are necessary measures, and of course, we in the media support them. Unemployment is very expensive for the nation, and it is not just costing money but causing the unemployed and their families a great spiritual problem and a great deal of importance to get it down by all the available means. If the proportion of unemployed continues to be so high, it'll cost the state funds around 40 billion dollars. every year. That's an enormous amount, and it's very important that the government realizes that we have to plan how we get down unemployment, for example. not to be found in the financial program we were agreeing to today. The unemployment we now contend with is similar to unemployment in 1993◯1995, which was extremely high and utterly unacceptable. It is very important to have the economy where the environment allows them to thrive and to establish a good business base so that they can increase the number of employees. The big challenge ahead is to bring down unemployment, where the companies in the country play a key role, that's just how we need to prepare them for the range of employment. In addition, we need to remember that because foreign investment environments are competitive because foreign investments are also increasing. But then the environment here also needs to be that it is attractive for foreign companies to come here and start a business. I refer to Ireland as an example of a land that has been very successful in obtaining a foreign investment. The imagination is about that. 26% of Iran's national income because they have prepared it for an environment that makes it attractive for companies, data plants and other such things to come to the country. We need to set up a programme for living enterprises and foreign investors in an environment that makes it very desirable to come here. This is the key to recovery from unemployment. Yes, unemployment is being met with support, but there are financial expenses that are not sustainable. That's why it's very important that we pull down unemployment, and I stress that in our media language we've proposed a greater reduction in insurance costs to improve the position of our companies in our country. There's something else I wanted to come in with this budget bill, and that's the nursing home. This is at last to set about A billion nursing homes are operating, but that will not be enough. The balance of business, taking into account the development of the rural communities, and that is not their legal role, is about 1.5 billion per year. If you overlook your rural society, it's 3 billion people. The representatives of this sector met with the legal committee and presented themselves. A careful report dealing with nursing problems. It showed that the hail is even greater, may be in the range of 49.6 billion, taking into account the shortening of the work weeks, the biographies, etc. Thus, there is a serious problem, and this contribution is of no concern. While this is truly important, as it has been said, and we support it, we must set out a trustworthy plan. There's no way to throw this thing away first. It's just a temporary solution from the government. She will then roll over to the next government to solve this crisis, which is extremely urgent. I remind you that we in the middle-of-the-class brought a change in the budget of up to 800 million dollars. K. to deal with this problem. That proposal was issued at the council by the government party. Now, at last, they make a suggestion to try to solve this problem in some form of temporary action. It shows paradox on the part of the government. We have been very aware of what sort of problem this is and have tried to deal with him, but unfortunately, it has come to an extremely limited understanding of the government, it must be said at the moment. Then there are some of the teams that are being put in and put in a memo from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs that brought us to the budget board. It is, in fact, there. reviewing a provision on the income side, it says that there is a delay in paying taxes at the price of the state's budget of 6.5 billion. Then the review of the special property savings is made. It is of great interest in the EU's special savings, of course, that it is also not to be expected that it will always be the solution to any financial problem to allow the assessment of property savings. It is a means of saving and of special possession, and it is in many sense because it actually involves a raise for the person who decides to go that way, i.e. A professional pays 2% of the totals against the salary. I stress that people also realize that this is a savings form that is important to them and that they try to keep as far as possible. Here are also tools that are being extended and added as such. travel administration. A substantial amount of $2.4 billion should be set for travel. That's a hell of a lot of money. But if we just look at the results of the move that was set up not long ago, and many Icelanders took advantage of last summer, which was the best of it, I saw an interesting report in the magazines that it was most new in some restaurants, chicken restaurants, and pizza restaurants. Yeah, well, it's a great company, but was that the point? Was it not more the intention of trying to face the tourism that had faced the biggest business problem, especially in the country? I think the results of these measures must be considered only by men. That's what happened. Gunnarsson The fact that it is vital that we look at the results of the work being done and, in general, when it comes to managing the State's resources, that they are effective, to evaluate the effectiveness of financial resources. It is in the spirit of the law on public financial matters. It came, for example. There is no evidence in the financial program on the effectiveness of the government's measures, which in many respects are very special. We saw that at first the action was somewhat coloured by a certain despair on the part of the government. An important enterprise was taking advantage of these routes, the part-way, and other factors, which did not require any of it, indicating that the procedure was not properly handled by the Generals in this regard. The shareback process, however, did yield to the desired results, but the results of the operation are very different. Some lived up to expectations and others weren't, and I think it's now the time of the appointment to reevaluate the operation, that's just very necessary, because it's part of a careful budget done by the financial authority that people realize what the results are. I think it's very vague, and I really think that this government has had no plan to measure results, which in many respects are very interesting. I see that time is running out and finally I'd like to come up with just one point that I came across in this financial memo that discusses the summary of measures for Covid-19, as stated on page 5. 6th It shows that the decrease in bank taxation, i.e. His haste has affected the income side of the State Fund of 5.7 billion. The wealth was made up of 5.7 billion dollars. due to a decrease in the bank tax rate. When the balance of government funds reaches 328 billion dollars. In this year, a huge tail, all their income needs to be looked into. This was the type of income that was decided to lower and drop, and it was rushed by 5.7 billion. But what has it done? I asked the highest. To this end, the minister of finance was not able to answer any more, but he had little to do with an outback on his part. Have people noticed a decrease in bank service? I haven't noticed. What's the business supply of banks? I saw that one of the banks was making a profit of $12.5 billion. but at the same time, he resigned from 20 employees and reported that he should start paying owners a lot of money. The results of this process, which was determined to speed up and cost the state budget of 5.7 billion, are absolutely necessary. There are some things that need to be considered in all this process, but, overall, the funds package is needed. [[The president calls.]] But we should not forget that the government was not going to go that way. [[The president calls.]] She was going to take care of other projects to start new projects, and this is not a good way to work on budgeting. [[The president calls.]] But we in the Middle East support many of the suggestions on this budget bill that are excellent, especially on business matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u99	President wants to ask why. Councilmen showing respect for the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u100	Mr. President. This financial bill's coming up pretty late, I'll tell you. However, there is still time to correct and correct the emphasis of the greater part here at the council, for some of the administrative issues seem to fail to identify those who bear the highest load in this pandemic. Many people have noted that the economic depression and the problems affect us in a number of ways during this epidemic. Some have said that 10% is in trouble, but 90% is in good shape, and others are making money even at the situation, and they have found a way to make good use of it. But the people who have lost their jobs are the ones who have suffered the biggest loss of income. Hv. U.S. Marshals and the Supreme Court. Government has taken steps. One thing the government did to try to improve was to extend the income - related period. The potassium-related period is under the law three months, but was extended to six months. This means that people get a share of their income, but never more than 456,000. per month. But who was it, Mr. President, who then got these tractors from the highest? Government? Those who lost their jobs in March 2020 were the ones who lost their jobs when the virus was introduced into Icelandic society and who began to make a lot of money. However, those 10,000 who were out of work in February did not receive these tractors; they were allowed to wait. It seems so unfair to me that I have not yet accepted it, Mr. President, that those who had been most unemployed, who had the most difficulty when there was no work for a pandemic, received no special assistance from the government, but those who had spent the last few jobs. Well, since unemployment is beginning to decline, it is slow to do so. According to last figures from the Work Office, there are about 20,000 people out of work in Iceland. Those who have been unemployed for more than 12 months are nearly 6,500. If people are unemployed for more than 12 months, they are seriously affected by long - term lack of employment. But comparable figures are that those who had been unemployed for more than 12 months last October were 3,614. Now there are nearly 6,500. In October 2019, they were 1,466. It is set up who carry the burdens of this pandemic, but the government has not wanted to meet them by extending the unemployment period. We in the United States have suggested that it be extended by year. She's been dropped. We lasted six months. It's been killed, too. But we still agree with the ASI claims that unemployment improvements need to be raised to 95% of the minimum income insurance and that the unemployment period needs to be extended at least about six months. It is so tragic, President, that each month dozens of people fall off the unemployment record, have not obtained jobs in the pandemic, no job to get, and then have to consult the community by social assistance, which in any case is much lower than the unemployment rates. And I know that in that area where I live, where every four people are out of work, social assistance is about half as low as unemployment. Even so, relief agencies tell us that there has been an increase in the attendance for food, and natural. What the government is doing by not putting their arms around these people under such circumstances is to direct them directly to very poor, and it is shameful for a rich society as we are acting in that way. V.E.G. The government has recognized the economic problems of an enterprise, and that's fine, and faced the challenge so that, fortunately, one of them can continue and be in the starting places when tourists arrive. However, it does not have the same understanding of domestic economic problems, even though all people who want to be long - term workers are dangerous and expensive to the future. The world's biggest out - of - line groups now out of 20,000 are women, young people, and immigrants, who have suffered loss of service in this pandemic. I think it's important, Mr. President, that these people, who have had to bear these burdens for the rest of us, are getting damages. We are to pay the level of damage that has been taking on the weightiest load so that soon they can get back on track, which can be won when some work is needed. This is one thing, Mr. President. The rest of our ability to close our eyes is that the survival of the medical system is increasing. Now, according to a note from February's Hospital, 3,625 people are waiting for surgery at the Land Hospital. The longest waiting lists follow eye surgery and hip replacement. There are 392 individuals. After knee replacement, 827 subjects and 301 subjects wait for incineration surgery. We must respond. These latelists have increased for several reasons, it's not all because of Covid, but it doesn't matter why the list of waitings has increased. They need to be handled, and I feel that we should do so in these funding laws, start a campaign, because it's not just during a waiting period, there's also a waiting call for mental - health service at the Land Hospital. There are now 1,095 persons waiting, and what's very serious is that 131 children are waiting for services to be served in the National Hospital Children's Youth Department. We have to respond, and that's why I and hopefully the Committee will move the changes proposals to this bill to be there. Another recent issue that has been discussed is the business of a nursing home. There has been an appeal to the government to place extra money on health insurance in order to meet that challenge. Although the people who run the nursing home are willing to do all they can, there will always be a lack of money in the service of older people who are in the nursing home, making it necessary to meet their problems. Farmers had to give up their business because they couldn't handle it anymore and the private people took over at least. Three nursing homes across the country. Once it's done, it's the highest. A government willing to contribute money and contribute a billion dollars with this financial bill, even though the report says that even higher amounts of money are missing into that work. I, Mr. President, have fully understood that I need to obtain information on nursing procedures. When private workers keep their arms around the business, we get here the funds, not as clear information on what goes in the homes, and of course we need to know to be convinced that the tax paid on a nursing home is well spent. I also find it important, no matter what agreements are being made in the welfare system or in other parts of the system, that the state recognizes the needs and then negotiates with parties on how to meet them, but not vice versa. Of course, it should not be that the private people explain what it is that the State needs and then pay the State for it. These things need to be done well. But I think, Mr President, we have enough information to know that there is a serious problem here, and we have to deal with that problem. You can't wait for a new deal to come at the end of the year. All this year remains. This additional bill puts a billion people in it, and of course we must carefully review it to the budget board whether it is high enough, how it was determined, and what it really is that we have to do to meet this situation. Finally, Mr President, I would like to talk about the growing areas in which the growing population has been growing in the past few years. I know best in my own district where there has been a growing population in the South, far beyond what is happening in the whole country, and so do the Great Irish region, which we can call, as a health center in the Southland. There has been a growing number, but the funds intended for health care for the population, especially health care professionals, do not follow. They have not grown by a number of people, which simply means that the institutions, the South American Health Organization, and the National Institutes of Health, will not be able to care for the entire population. What, then, do the inhabitants do? They seek services from the medical facility in the capital area, which will be paid for by an appeal number, and the state will pay for them there. This financing is taking over the country, and hopefully it will bring something back. However, there is no room for these growth sites to receive patients, those requiring health care. Thus, special attention must be given to the services and legal services of the inhabitants of these areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u101	A respectable president. I cut by one of the members of a committee party. A senator I wanted to ask about. I know it's a long discussion about the development of work markets and especially pay development. The commission points out in the financial programme or in its report that it is important that the labour market members agree with the new and more efficient collective agreement model, and this concludes. A senator and a member of the committee believe that this is the Communion case. Economic and economic ministers and the government must understand that there are ways to prevent low pay increases. This is not usually a new debate on how the higher pay rates according to the theory increase in in inflation and thus put an end to the pay raise. The problem is, of course, that when there's an increase in a lot of people's wages at once, it is likely to have a greater impact on prices than if few individuals simply spend a relative less on a person of the increase they receive. It doesn't have the same effect. Of course, I'm not describing it as the reality you're talking about is fair, because it's not him. But I've been thinking a little bit about what to do when it comes to raising a salary, something I'm saying we have to be able to do without calling the problem inflation and that's why we're going to stop. Is there nothing we can do to reevaluate this market model that we are working with today without reducing the possibility that workers in the workforce can get pay raise over heads? I have felt that this discussion is very much left-to- right, not much about how to deal with the problem other than either causing a lot of inflation or that low-payers can't raise the pay. Both are problems I think are real. [[The president calls.]] So I wondered if it really is so that there are no solutions possible, since we can get rid of both problems at the same time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u102	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question aimed at my committee program for a financial agenda that was to be accepted here earlier today, but all of this is intertwined. And, yes, I thought that when I read the financial program and the text that there was much talk about a systematic problem there, there was a systematic problem in Iceland that would make us struggle with long - term noncooperativeness on time, if we didn't take it. So this systematic problem is that the pay is too high here. Of course, we can solve this problem by promoting greater wealth in our country. Then we should not be promoting jobs in which there is little production and very little pay. Rather, we should strive to promote the sector that can contribute more to society. In fact, in this committee party, I talk about what needs to be done. We've got the tourism, and we got the water main. Both of these sectors are certainly important, but they live on Iceland's natural resource, which is limited. So we have to sit down with unions and professional drivers and figure it out, work out how we're going to promote our business life here, increase our valuables, use our intelligence more, etc. [[The president calls.]] We need employment policy, we need education policy, and we need tax policy to take care of the situation from this point of view. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u103	A respectable president. That's right, I allowed myself to put these issues into context. But the reason I wanted to ask about this is that I have a measure of concern about what happens when, let me say, the economy will be straightened out after this epidemic is over. I believe that tourism will take a very big leap myself. I think tourists are getting tired of being in the same spot, and of course this whale fire, the volcanic eruption that we see on the way from the airport to Reykjavík, interested in Iceland, and interested in coming here, if based on a recent history of Eyjafókulak. But I also think that it will follow this positive trend for raises in a large number of people who will inevitably lead to a price. I'm worried about that, but the context of the development of the gang and the Icelandic crown and the whole Havari. In short, I do not realize how we should be able to proceed in the next few years, considering these unprecedented circumstances, in the strange reality that we face when we are not yet in a position to provide somehow for a market model that both approves raises in low - paying groups, which are even very large, but also prevents the use of inflation pressure. I'd probably be able to fool around here about something and other in this context of a sense of irresponsibility. But the reason why I mentioned this was that I found this in the committee article of the case. A senator mentioned earlier. I wondered, " How can I best sail into the next year or the next two so that we can see things as clearly as possible in that regard? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u104	Mr. President. I believe that it is not fair or fair in any way to insist that it is the people who receive the lowest wage in Iceland to ensure that inland inflation is low and stable. It's just not fair. Of course, we must start to look in other ways. Hv. A senator named the currency, and we in the United States know, of course, what the greatest and best dresser would be, i.e. to change currency. We'll always take dips and giants with the crown. It can stand with the votes of the public, but it can also go against the votes of the common people. We're so familiar with this. As the number of tourists increases here as they begin to divide the currency into a dollar, the amount of dollars will be less attractive to tourists coming here, as the land becomes more expensive. So this bites everything in its tail. If we are really going to look forward to a future in which there is some stability, where growth and prices are not all out of control at regular intervals, while the export branches suffer a shock and then make a lot of money on the loss of the crown, while the household is swollen and contracting in a reverse proportion, the solution is to exchange currency. Of course, we should have done so long ago and have adopted the euro of over 500 million people. [[The president calls.]] We've got a quarter we've got here, hundreds and a thousand people, holding on. What every man must see is that we can only swing up and down the crown and continue to do so until we are ready to replace it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u105	V.E.G. President. We're here discussing the budget number something from the government that is, as one speaker said before, probably the last Covid package. But what do I know? There may be other things to come, though the time may be short. I've been listening, and it's been interesting, but I just want to come up with a few things that aren't in these extras. The largest part is a nursing home of 1 billion, and it's good and it doesn't help, you could say. There has been a great crowd of nurses, the way they are being conducted, and the group of paintings has always gained weight. We are getting old and we all want to grow old, but we must also enjoy our old life's carefree. There is much to say about the vision of the government and the highest. The health minister has these matters, how to handle this operation. Since the beginning of politics, which are now eight years, things have changed; a distinction in policy and a vision of what service to older citizens should be. A few years ago, your name was this residence. Then they became a nursing home. Today, there is an ever larger period of nursing, and it takes much more natural to do so. Then there is more to the fact that service at home is at home as much as possible while your health allows. It's a good price to think about all this stuff, but it's going to take quite a lot of change, and for example. Now in a few years, the size of a nurse for an individual has been drawn together. She took so much mutation in a square number of square feet and went up to about 35 m2 over a period of time, which is pretty good at work. Then there is a question about how much the state should be in this business, and what a private or socially fired home should be a major part of this. Is that something the politicians need to set a policy? It has revealed itself to each of these terms, and it is not at all at all at peace. It is best seen by the non - statemates, what they have had to beat at the door of the State. However, the amount of money presented here is to meet the challenge now, and it is a good one. But there is a long, long talk about taking some course of action that would last for a period of time and that can be done, but not always, that I feel that I am, stirring up how to deal with these issues. Then there's college and college degrees with some amount. I couldn't see when I turned over the bill that there was nothing to say about industrial and technical studies. V.E.G. Education Ministers have been talking about it during this most exclusive period of education, but there are two stories of what it has done. In today's unemployment and lack of industry - industrialists and techs in most places - you would have liked to see spit in it to promote it. There is a great demand for this education, and I feel that it's kind of sad after four years in this government that there's been no better results than it's done. I had high hopes for the highest. A minister of education would improve this, since she became very frequent about it at the beginning of the season. There's one thing that's not in there that I'd like to take care of too, but there's a lot of ocean research in the fishing business. It would have been possible to take a big step, at least to face the problem of ocean research. There is no doubt about it. We're running a new ship somewhere, but it's not going to be any good for us yet. The changes in water, ocean currents, and so forth are things we worry about, yet we cannot put our finger on how life really works. That is why it calls for much more research. We can also say that the types of fish we are fishing are unsearched. We can see that, for example. in the fur that she's behaving in many ways differently than she's done over the decades, she's been caught here since 1960. During the past few years, it has been difficult to deal with because it seems to be moving north of the country, chasing heat or something like that in the sea, and the last two years, 2019 and 2020, did not catch any furs because it was not found enough volume. In fact, the formula was also changed, which played into. Then, much research was done, and a handsome plan was made that led to the introduction of fur parvoti, actually not much, but it was still possible to take what was recommended to fish at the best of time, so that the value of the hairy stock, that is, freezing and wrinkling. It was somewhere between 20 and 30 billion and now much less in the national setting, especially when the box is half empty. I'd just like to grab off a review, which was actually part of the budget, from the SFA, the union of fish farming companies in the fishing road. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ Economic downturns are even more important to consider the basic roads of the country. Such basic work can be explained in such a way that other jobs are dependent on him, but he is not to the same degree dependent on his activities. Seafood is one of Iceland's basic construction roads. For this reason, the organization is now considered to be very important to promote and improve the research of marine life and marine research institutions to provide adequate financial support for needed research. In addition to being the basis for sustainable use of fish stocks, marine research provides a basis for the information and presentation of marine soils in foreign markets to ensure the competitiveness of the industry. It should be noted that 98% of Icelandic powers are sold at a global market where competition is intense. [...] It is then specified that strong research is essential to providing governments with the best scientific advice on sustainable use of fish stocks. Strong research is also needed to monitor the changes in Icelandic seas and require basic research and increased monitoring, for example, changes in the hairy population. This is as I mentioned before, because of possible changes in the sea, as if changes in the hairy stem, as I pointed out. ▪ In the opinion of the organization, the government needs to do something about it so that these goals can be met. Sadly, the bill does not contain a budget [...] to be found in the budget of 2020,226, which is discussed in this discussion. Then it says: ▪ The organization has repeatedly expressed great concern about the lack of funds for research on marine life. In view of the needs of the fishing road, it can be said that the activities of the Oceanographic Institute are in chaos. It should be noted that the use of sea resources and opportunity to sell products on the best exporters makes high demands for ocean research and science in today's world. This century's continued lack of funds and resources has led to continuous recession in ecology, marine and related studies, but the monitoring of crops has naturally taken priority in financial matters. Nevertheless, there is a great need to monitor the crops as well. In such cases, research on the use of a number of smaller fish strains has not been adequately practiced. Is this, of course, pathetic? Here is where it is necessary and long time for arrangements to be made for a better - looking ocean study. Then, in this excellent review of the need to spit well in ocean research, it continues. We can also see in it when talking about fish species, and I've been watching them for some years. I'll mention the compound that fishermen and Cape have for some reason been unable to map so that you really believe they're right. They're actually doing their best, but the swing of counselling in the middle of the year, it's a lot between the ages that it's hard to make plans for the hunt in the coming year before the break-up, we can say, because it's even swinging about 40 to 50%. The gray patch was very much discussed last year, and its research is a bit of a tube, I'll tell you, because it's very difficult to investigate. It's a bit foggy in a lot of a year. They don't quite know where she is. But when she walks up to the shores of the country, she goes up to the sea, and they get her on a nice roll and something like that. It's in these trollies of the Marine Research Agency, where they take their cues off the gray patch, and that's how the advice is found. This was done at the time to try this into the present model of fishing management, and it seems to each one about it. Since then, the lobsters have crashed. There's no funding to further research, and that's how you could count on it. Improved research and the coin in it will be returned to a better supply later on. It is clear to me that making money requires money. That is true in this matter as well as in other matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u106	A respectable president. I've got to start by saying, "What?" A senator's concern on the importance of research is sufficiently financed, since it can, of course, help us understand more clearly how much of each stock we can establish and possibly how, I don't know it. I must admit that I am relatively ignorant of its precise points. But that's why I'd like to ask. A senator, for I listened to his speech the other day when he pointed out that it was thought that it would be impossible to catch tired because there was so little of it that could be caught: lay down. A senator for permission to cross over so that he can be seen as to whether he is taking over and then he can be caught? That thought came quickly to my attention. At least I can't imagine what would go against it if people are throwing it into the ocean, living or dead. In view of what happened, I wondered. In his speech, a senator reviewed the magnitude of what might be improved by the Fish Office and the nonprofit authorities, as if I thought that the case would be a good suggestion, and about changing policies or rules, which need not cost a lot of money in themselves. Senator on the nerd hunt. I'm asking why. A senator, because he comes from the fishing field, and I'm not, and I'm interested in learning more about the balance between these things. Of course, when there is a rich interest behind it, each individual seems to be concerned about the right kind of research. [[The president calls.]] But my time is over, so I have to come to this in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u107	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for the counter-sponsore. When the senator started talking about ocean research, I have sometimes said to the blessed fishermen, who are all willing to do things, but they sometimes claim something about it, that when they don't talk about fish populations around the country like they're looking through a fish tank where people can count the fish and start doubting about them, I start to listen to them. But it's a gray head. As for the nerds, it is true that I pointed this out in a speech the other day, and I've also asked a present marine espionage minister, and I think I might have had a sea espionage minister before. They're actually being kicked back from Capero with this, blessed, and blessed, there's no way they're going to allow this land to go, most because they haven't done enough research and they're called for more funding. That's what they've been saying. Direct fishing in the White House was forbidden in 2011, I think, and then the directives on the possession of resources were issued. A hook - bearing inhalation, which is mainly line hunting, was changed in 2012, so no lice can come along as a force, and even if it appears dead, it must be thrown into the sea. It's a evasion. This is just a evasion. That's why I'm preparing a conquistador proposal for further inspection. I'm sure you can get a better overview of what's going to bring a big pair of nerds to the country if you allow it to come up with a power board. [[The president calls.]] The cost question, and I'd like to discuss it in the second answer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u108	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an excellent answer. I'm concerned if we can't even examine new ideas because there's a lack of money. Now, in itself, you never know how pleased institutions are to say you need more money but are absolutely necessary. So I can refer to it well, actually, it wasn't particularly nice, it was a radio interview. Senator Páll Magnússon of his day. During a radio interview, he said that he felt it was his duty to ask for more money when he was in the position of asking the General for more money and showing each one his way. But it seems at least to be the attitude of the authorities, I'm more involved in my talk afterwards, and the standard practice in Iceland, and I've been in a pretty good time, mostly because the Independence Party has been in charge, that institutions, even research agencies, should be financed, that they should not have enough money to do their job. As a result, institutions are always asking for more money, and as a result, they may be starting to sound like an omission to the authorities. They don't believe that there is a integrity behind the request because everyone is always asking for more money, as the radio interview at night. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon of his day. It is a very bad situation when we cannot deal with the research of something as important as the water line and how much resources and fish stocks really can be used when even answering the question of how much we can walk on the resource costs too much money for the government. I'd like to ask you what. A senator or someone will respond. It seems to me that there is not a new problem that these studies are too short of money to answer questions about such things. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u109	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator back there. You've heard it over the years, it was a good example of a former radio manager, that he thought it was his duty to ask for more money. Because we're talking about this isolated case with the blessed leukomain, I don't think it would be any harm to allow the infection to become a force, not a direct offense, to see the survival of the strain as such. This would increase the resources and entrance into a government fund considerably, since I think a pound of dome could cost more than 1,000 bucks, or cost it on the market. This has increased dramatically over the last two, three, four years. And who knows what survives this fish that is released back into the sea, I'm not talking about if he comes dead on board. So there's no question in my mind. But this is a good question with the need for funding and perhaps the need for a plan or a willingness to handle it better and to be careful about financial resources from each institution, with the money paid, to do even better. I think there's a little will there, too, because we were referring to this special point. I'm not afraid of anything about letting land pass on the hatch. In addition, there's 80% of VS, which is a government fund, 80% of what's allowed to cross countries from other fishing agencies, to draw power. [[The president calls.]] So this case that I am preparing will definitely be 63:0 per vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u110	I'm sure he will.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u111	Mr. President. This spring is final. This means that the season is getting shorter, so these are probably the last works of the government and the government classes in the financial affairs of the State during this terms. This bill, provided here for financial support, is largely a confirmation of an already implemented action that is to be found, the correct course by presenting it in a bill for financial support. This will help each of us to appreciate more fully how this year has suffered in financial terms and how we have financed and are doing well. However, it cannot be avoided to mention that it may not be the first idea of the government, but I believe that the government, the Ministry of Economics, has been influenced by a financial committee in this way, and, of course, it should be welcomed. It is both right and necessary to assume that there is one exception that this is primarily a confirmation of what has already been established and that there is a contribution to the operation of a nursing home. This figure assumes that they will receive 1 billion bucks. to increase the annual expenses for business, and that's fine. I'm going to allow myself to claim that these funds aren't enough at least. If you take note of what has happened, both on the part of private nursing homes but also on the members of your rural society, that this is not enough. It has been noted that many homes can provide the services recommended by a land surgeon. There have been some figures about this, and this may not be exactly known, so it might be said that the government has some kind of pity on it. But there's been numbers, and then we're both talking about what's missing on the day - to - day business and then an accumulation of space, because we all know that it's been necessary to pay, the communities have had to pay with nursing homes in many cases. So this is a substantial amount, and you'd think it had to be at least twice if not three times higher to achieve some balance. However, these efforts should be respected, although, in my opinion, it is not sufficient. It's also a little out of the question how it's set up. This budget or financial rights is conditioned because treaties with these households will be extended to allow them to enter some of the next terms. The contract is to be extended to the end of February 2022, and it can be said that this is the way of considering the problem. It will then be the next government to take on it. But at least it may not be a matter of choice. discuss with the government groups that they will take up this job and continue, replace themselves, and continue, so their headaches will continue accordingly. Otherwise, it will be a headache for the other members of the board. It is good to use this opportunity and to wonder in general how we have been successful in the financial affairs of the State. I want to run in part over this Covid time, which, of course, is unusual and has certainly caused severe problems and called for measures that have been costly. I think I'll be absolutely right about what we're doing in Uphold and, actually, I think I can figure it out and say that the whole government problem was to pay the street of these actions and help get them on the ground. Of course, we have produced other ideas, other suggestions. In some cases, we have provided another means that has not been listened to or heard. Nevertheless, we have supported this, so it is perfectly reasonable to say that it is not the government alone that has passed through Covid but that all members of Congress have loyally supported it for good works in this regard. I'd like to take a closer look at the situation before we got into this mess. It has to be said that the government is not getting a good record. And it's not just me or us in Rehabilitation, but it's been repeatedly pointed out, by the members of the Ministry who provide envelopes on budgets and funding, financial plans, and financial policies, that they have been misinformed when 2019 C.E. and government funds broke down. That's why we're stuck with the fact that we have a underlying problem that happened to Covid, and that's what happened after Covid, and if anything, it's grown. So it turns out that the debt of the state's budget has grown, that has increased, and that the state has spread in many ways, that the government has spread. Of course, it is sobering to think about this, especially when you see that a reagent is now present in one of the members of the board, and now it is too big and you need to do something about it. However, it is as if these fine people were absent most of the 70 years that the fine category has stood more and less on board here, and this is quite surprising to them. We face this problem, we have to deal with these future consequences, primarily the huge debt and the balance that has come up in government business and, in addition, the business life, a large part of it, a considerable part of it, still in trouble and will be in trouble for the next few years. It is hoped, though, that it will be very fast, and hopefully it will also begin to be published quickly by people who have lost their jobs, who have lost their means of living. It seems, though, that unemployment is taking on a larger level, i.e. A higher level than we're supposed to get used to. It is also a long - term lack of work that we should not get used to. It's also taking place at the same time as it's getting smaller, so there's a lot of bad air signs that need to be dealt with and could have done better. But in the future, we have to deal with this, that's no question. I believe, and believe it right, that it must be the aim of the coming government to try to follow the way of not having to take considerable tax increases, preferably none, but at the same time not to cut down the necessary service or to cut down service, while the project is to look for ways to manage the public funds we have available. I think we can do that, and that's one of the biggest projects we're facing. We have a very large budget team that can be seen. The primary objective is: Can we do better without compromising our ministry? Second goal: Can we do even better, perhaps for less money without compromising our ministry? These are subjects that we need to deal with. Then it is only to discuss that there are, of course, very big issues that are relevant in many areas. I would especially like to mention the effects that our currency has on the survival of the public, the survival of the households, the survival of the enterprises and the survival of the rural society. This is what we've been talking about for a long time, but it's a matter of magnitude that it's sort of incomprehensible to me why we can't get into this serious discussion, where people try to evaluate it. They are often spoken of as being those who talk about these matters, which, in turn, seem to me to forget that the currency and its influence are all around the community, affect the whole society. In that the European Union also affects the whole community, and let us look at it that way. This is one language that has enormous numbers of smells and has a tremendous impact on the whole community. I think I was windowing a piece of a new report that was being introduced in the Agricultural Ministry. I thought it was interesting, and I'm going to read it out a little. I was impressed because it is often referred to as opposed to farmers who are involved in the European Union and the like. But that's not the way it is. We're trying to point out that the advantage of such classes as farmers would improve. The report says, with the permission of the president: The report tries to portray a number of sheep making worldwide. In the EU there was 80% higher than Iceland in 2020. In the European countries where farm prices are highest, the production is small by the appeal number, and the import is considerable. Later in the illustration I quoted, it is talking about the effect of gangs on the survival of farmers. It is not enough to have an impact when exporting, it affects the local market as well as the international market, and this greatly draws together all the environmental benefits of agriculture such as I'm going over here. Therefore, this is just one small example of what I was saying about these issues being influenced far and wide in the community. [[The president calls.]] But I see it, Mr. President, that my time is up so that it seems inevitable for me to go to another speech and wait for it. President putting me on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u112	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. Hv. A senator wanted to take us back before Covid and check it out then. What was the situation, e.g. in the big business that's been hit in the pandemic? Of course, they had a contraction. In fact, early in 2019 there was a recession in the leading of WOW's fall, and then when that airline fell, and then, of course, it was a recession because the dollar was so strong. It's somehow like this works; we're glad we come here to move forward the economy and economics, bring their currency and change into the dollar and the dollar, and it makes everything more expensive and the travellers get smaller again. I know we what we're doing. A senator agrees with the European Union and the euro, but how does he react? A senator's experience is now that we are sailing out of this economic low, trusting so much in a single industry? For example, the financial program that we were discussing earlier today has little to say about but the fact that tourism is to have the strongest support in the commercial world. It is an important industry, but what will happen in the interaction between gangs and this industry in the near future?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u113	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir It's a whole Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter for the counter. I'll try to answer it. This is a problem that we face that is not a new one. This is a problem that we encounter at regular intervals, every few years, at a maximum of a decade, where we experience these fluctuations. It always happens the same way. There will be an increase in some article, and it will become a major community activity, often speaking of subjugation in that context. Then something happens. This may be due to a natural cause, a market cause, and there will be a contraction, in this article. It turns out that we have too much monopoly. Then we'll start talking about how this is no longer working, and we're really going to need more support for the job. Then we either forget it very quickly or feel so happy when we suddenly see a new article that is supposed to save us. We've had several examples of such articles where we suddenly see the light and put all of us in it, and then it goes one more lap. Of course, travel is a big business, or rather, it was. Tourism is absolutely sound, and I don't want to involve it in any way, but it's not wise for the nation to trust so much in extraordinary sectors. We will have to live for a long time, and now in a short time, prepare for other occupations. [[The president calls.]] There I also feel that we lack a bit of courage to endure because as soon as we start to see the country, we begin to withdraw to a country that is not wise. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u114	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I agree that more support is needed. We've got the tourism, we've got the seaside, we've got the resource - drive, we've got so much to worry about, but we've got to have a lot of support next to us, and some of us even. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he agrees with me that the government has to come up with a professional policy, a education policy, with a tax policy that deals with these issues and that the unions and the professional unions have to come to this level also to create a frame and that we show a nation that we're going to learn from past mistakes and we're going to face these situations and say, "No, listen, we're not going to get into this again. We have to have more support for the economics, for the economics, and for the prosperity. At times, those who have been working on the job have said: " No, the worst thing we can think of is that governments start to grow up in some professional policy. But I believe that we must, and that, as I say, we need to take, education and tax policy, as well as unions and professional drivers, to get a way to change and better living.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u115	Mr. President. I thank you again. paritaprevir It's a whole Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter for the counter. I think that when we talk about more supporting things, the most important thing is that we can create a working life or, rather, a variety of employment. Today, the fourth pillars are often spoken of as being intelligent. In fact, it is very diverse, and it is very unlikely that all of us would have trouble selling video games at the same time when it would be difficult to sell software related to health care or green solutions, etc. So I think that support, if we can call it that, is varied. The primary objective of this, they are many, is just to create a balance so that if for some reason we're experiencing some sort of trauma, we'll have enough to run so that we'll just be a light dive or a washing board that we have to go over gradually, but we'll keep our car completely balanced on the road. For the rest, how we're supposed to do this, I think it's most important that we create a general situation that lays this foundation. I'm not entirely convinced that the government should decide exactly where the opportunities are. I'd like to give the example, and I'm not the first to do that, Össur and CCP. It would have been considered to set it up in a commercial policy in its own time that we were going to become practically a world power of commercial production and very early production. [[The president calls.]] I don't think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u116	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for a fine, meaningful talk that was given in many places. She ended up in a familiar part of the world for the two of us. We have at times at this site and, in fact, in other parts of the European Union and possibly in the form of euro, which we do not seem to be much closer. The possibility of going all the way into the European Union and recording the euro is sometimes as if it were to go to Mars, it seems to be such a remote and strange possibility. In the past, a growing number of pillars was beginning to grow. It is often spoken of as having more eggs in the basket, but it is as if this egg somehow wants to break in the same basket, and we usually go into talking about the seabed and think about the seabed because somehow it is the way it is when it is standing. But I cut to the ear. At the end of his talk, a senator turned to farming. I share his opinion that it is worthwhile for Icelandic farmers to consider carefully whether a full involvement in the European Union could benefit them and benefit them from Icelandic agriculture. [[The president calls.]] I want to ask you why. A senator will agree that it may be possible to record the slogan in the EU ◯ farms for the sake of their use.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u117	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Andri Thorsson's divinity for this. Yes, for the sake of the EU farmers. That sounds pretty good. I would perhaps like to have this on a broader foundation and to say 'Environment to the EU 'cause of everyone. The other is good, but the other is good, I think that it would be very sensible and good for all of us, farmers and farms and others, to put this discussion back in order, to restart this discussion, and not necessarily to begin because it has always ended, somewhere where men almost yell at one another, and to try to figure it out. I'll admit that from the report I referred to, I've just looked at the piece so I don't know what it says and I'm not gonna pretend to know it. This caught my attention when I was sliding over this. So if farmers in Europe are getting much more for their products and living in a more stable environment, I would guess their survival would be better. This may vary between European countries, we know agriculture differs, etc. But I think it would be very useful if we could look at this. With regard to the trip to Mars, I agree that it would be late to get there if no one had ever made the journey, even though it might be difficult and take time. I've been thinking about these matters in a number of ways since 1990, and then it's always been the same: now's not the time, this is no solution. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's why Mars is never on its way, so they never get to Mars.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u118	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yes, the Icelanders had a far - flung chance for centuries to hunt a blunder, to dissipate the herb to get to sea, and to distract them. They preferred to go to sea to try shark fishing, which, while focusing more fully on the herring, may have been quite difficult and extremely callous. It took Northmen to show the Icelanders that silhouette fishing was profitable, and it would even be the sign that the Icelanders had not listed. More eggs in the basket - we're talking about Europe and the European Union, the translation of the full resources for other branches - now we've been talking about these fundamentals of the so - called primary products, which are struggling to live in this country and live in business. I'm thinking of a variety of services, industry, and the articles we're trying to establish by running a fund here and trying to develop new technology. I'd like to pray. A senator would think of me as not a matter of life and death for all of these articles.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u119	Mr. President. I thank you again. paritaprevir The divinity of Thorsson Thorson for an interesting question. I think it might be best to start the answer by saying: "We are so lucky for lions that we made a very broad agreement in our time with the European Union, along with our fellow EFTA companions, which included us becoming members of the European Union's so - called inner market. The principles are very clear on the free transfer of goods, services, people and money, and I don't think anything has transformed the Icelandic community as much as the fact that we were lucky to become members of the EEA Treaty. There is a foundation on which we stand. The other is that with full involvement there are several things that happen. First, we are fully involved in all policies, all the activities that the European Union combines to. We're talking about new technologies, we can, for example. referred to green technology, which is highly emphasised in the European Union. We get access to some of these, and as a result, Icelandic companies are in and around and in the same sort of system as any other European enterprise. [[The president calls.]] Not only will they be strange for being in Iceland but they'll be a major power company and they'll be looked at that way, and investors will have the guts to bring their money into this, etc. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's what I think was extremely important in the large context.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u120	A respectable president. One of the things that come with the Covid, the fucking virus, is brain fog. Perhaps they can be transferred to some sense of their own fog over the entire nation's existence. Or it may be said that during the code and then, there has been a fog of some sort over the government's economic policy. Well, we've forgotten just how useless and stopped that policy. However, in response to the government's response to this situation, many positive things have been done that we in the United States have supported, and we have sought to facilitate these measures when it comes to government decapitation. Still, we feel that there is more to be done. Here in this case, it's not just sparkling, it's based directly on the economic policy of the Independence Party, which is viewed by public service and public general and usually as a payoff. It is repeatedly called a booth, and not just a booth but a hostile booth for which some others represent but ourselves. Our partnership is viewed as common; our schools are booths; our hospitals are booths, nursing homes are blundering, not to mention tax research and competitive surveillance, and Fish Room, and other such activities as the surveillance industry, which they call the ruling industry. In other words, the public is a booth rather than a common decision for all of us to cooperate on specific tasks that need to be met together. Except it's all in their nostrils more or less. They are very careful to run these institutions themselves. A sign is shown. Mr. President. There are disappointments in this regard, however, that there is no response to courting in the health - care system. According to a report by the Department of Health since February, waitings for expert services and surgery have been held for the longest between 2020 and 2021 years. Now 3,625 individuals are waiting for surgery. Of course, the crowning virus epidemic has had a variable impact on the waiting period after surgery. Obviously, these lists need to be worked fast and carefully, and they need funding. To do that, we need to plan the budget. We're talking about eye surgery, we're talking about hip replacement surgery, knee replacement surgery and heart surgery. And we are also talking about waiting for mental - health services. There, 1,095 people are waiting to find out. Finally, 131 children wait to get to BUDG's. Behind all these numbers, people are in trouble. The manifestations of that distress vary, but all these people are in a state of persecution for the sake of their own good and fair and just solutions, the privilege of entering the health service that is to be minimally required for the community to provide. Waiters are decisions. Coalitions are politics. Waiting lists are used by those in charge to put pressure on something else, to put pressure on the service to be given where there is no waiting list. So when it comes to public service, it is practical to put it to the fore in order to put it to private hands. Another problem and closely related is the care of the nursing homes. It is also a matter of political decision. In fact, this wealth went so far as to be given up by rural communities, gave away their business, and the private people took them over. And it was as it was to man; the government, which considers our joint institutions as a booth, was ready to finance. Old people in our country, as it is today, are not well understood, and it is frightening to think about how a service will be performed in due time because it is now a very large walk of years in old age, with a necessary need for service. It's all a matter of politics. Studies that remind me of Piratar's actions remind me that in a way that the people of the country put their health care at the top of the list of the areas in which they wanted the most money they needed. Other studies conducted by the National Social Science Institute and Rúnar Vilhjálmsson have been on hand for years - data were coming at present and presented - show that the vast majority of the population also wants the health system to be run by public agents rather than by profit. In particular, 81.34% of the population want public, state, and rural areas to run hospitals. There are 1.6% who wants the hospitals to be mainly private. Two out of three citizens, 67.6%, want public health care centres, but 3.3% wants private people to care for that business alone. But that is part of the 3.3% that is at the national administration, unfortunately, and aims to starve the public institutions, allowing the work to move to private hands. The numbers are not quite so clear, but they are quite direct when it comes to nursing homes. Less than 60% of the population believe the government should run the nursing homes, i.e. 58.4%, but 3.3% of the respondents believe that private workers should completely care for this business. A pair of these 3.3%, however, is in charge of the country and is always stuck to the national government because representatives of the groups that measure to the viewpoint that vastly more of the people of the country agree to work together. When it comes to mixing, there are only 17.1% of people who believe that private and government bodies are equal to hospital and less than 30%, 29.2%, believe that these two different operating forms should be combined. A respectable president. Unemployment is going down. In many cases, it has been said that in this epidemic, an overwhelming proportion of people were relatively unmoved by economic impacts, while 10% has been greatly affected by the economic effects of this virus and are in real trouble. Either way, while unemployment rates are being dropped, there are 20,000 people without a job. Those who have been unemployed for more than 12 months are according to figures from the Work Office of 6,500. These are enormously high numbers and much higher numbers than we're supposed to get used to in this country. And because we were talking about euro earlier, me and what. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson, one of the main reasons to use a dollar as a currency, is that the crews of the crown can be used to influence the level of employment so that unemployment is never too much. That's not why I'm going to say hello right now. We're watching people land here in very few places. We're watching some food. We're watching young people, women, immigrants, people in a more delicate position that is going to be unemployed and needs help, but the government seems ready to provide.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u121	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a fine talk I had in all respects agreeed with. However, I intend to make an honest effort to disagree. A senator, because in this speech, such as others he has held, he speaks of the booth or state business in a tone that I find to be repugnant to some form of admiration for the government business. I must admit, sir, a respectable president, that while I truly support state affairs in various fields, to form law enforcement, I cannot say that I am very impressed with the government's doing things that the private sector can do. On the other hand, we have an extremely small economy in Iceland, especially when we have this independent currency and everything that goes with it, the isolation that comes with it, and this may not be a competitive environment here for all the industry that exists abroad. That's why I'm more inclined to go to the left in that topic in Iceland than if I live in a greater community like the European Union or the United States. There is much more room for competition and such. On the other hand, I'm against e.g. the woman who is a Foreign Institute and wishes that we would reduce the numbers we have created there to keep people out. In this respect, I can say half of the cause. The members of the Central Party, when they say, "Run away." Sure. Let us, though, consider where it stands and its role. When I think of the booth as a public citizen, I see myself calling someone to the state because I need something or I know something and I can't find information that connects with it. I have to turn in forms I don't understand and things get complicated and difficult somehow. These are professional people, but they are also just common individuals who need to be used by the State. [[The president calls.]] I came up to ask what. A senator's thought that we can use this opportunity to address the philosophical questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u122	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an interesting question as always. I don't think I'm dealing with being a fan of state business, but I don't have any ideological dislike for it, either. I view government business as necessary, and I view it as a matter of fact, not a ◯ i.T., but a state of cooperation on certain tasks that must be done, a joint project, a common resource that the community as a whole must agree on what will be done and what will be done best. I think that people who are employed at these institutions are in the service, and I know that the people who serve in public institutions also consider them to be a servant. I also think this is a matter of private and public employment. I think the private business needs the public. Private business requires strong health care. He needs a strong education system, simply to produce workers and vice versa, the public needs strong companies to finance and create ideas. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u123	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer, and let me just say that he is not a special fan of state conflicts in that sense. I just threw it forward to describe my emotional experience by hearing it, as I sometimes do. But of course, I take an explanation. A senator's arms are open. Still, I still have a little problem with the idea that the state is at the tip of a question. I understand it would be wish the state were there, but I can't see better than that the ultimate premise of it is that two places have come to a final location. One is individual freedom, and the other is democracy, i.e. that the general citizen interferes with government decisions. They're not enough in my opinion today, we have one letter every four years to say everything we think of everything the State does. I think it too little, for I am fighting for the deeds of democracy, which I purpose to do. A senator will, too. On the other hand, it is more questionable that those of us who are in a position in the community may not be able to view the Kingdom as a mere ostensibly because we are accustomed to serving our interests at least the last years of life. However, there is a rather large group in the community where the State is simply not a friend of the individual but, contrary to someone who stands in the way of it, even harasss it. Let me give you one simple example, and it's the way we use the police against drug addicts. This is just one example, but there are others, since our system in the name of all the oppressed individuals in one way or another. Then the kingdom is not at ◯U, then the kingdom is the quarter and half. It's another thing. That is why it is so important for me to keep these two solid foundations completely clear, on the other hand, a democratic approach to this state, which is ◯ us, and the freedom of the individual we have to be no part of this kingdom when we don't want to be a part of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u124	A respectable president. I'm not sure that there is a final stop or that there is usually a final stop. I think, like a whisk. A senator knows as well as I do, that my liberty is limited by your liberty and vice versa. We must always come to some sort of agreement on how we are going to behave and as soon as we have to face some agreement, our freedom is impaired, and so it is to be. The individual's absolute freedom is not possible in human society, nor is it desirable because freedom can never reach to share, oppress, and so forth. I agree with that as a matter of course. However, a senator says how, for example, it is. A foreign agency operates and how it treats those around it and may now simply change the name of an immigrant agency or something else because only in itself the name reveals a certain attitude that is not desirable in a service agency. Regarding the police and the way the police treat those who have taken certain illegal drugs, it is natural for us to change the law here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u125	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Andri Thorsson for an excellent speech. All I wanted to do was kill down where medical matters and procedures were being discussed in medical care. I cut it at the end of the day. One senator expressed it as a public service to the public, recognizing that they were in public service, serving the common people. If we just stick to it and wonder, for example. The clinic in the capital area, here are 19 clinics, I think. In February last, a survey showed that the clinics with whom they thought they had the highest confidence were private, and in the top five or six, there were four or five private drivers. I feel that, first of all, it gives me reason to believe that the staff there feel that they are in public service, the public for whom they are looking. I think it's very important to learn that there is no match between whether a person is a public worker or a private worker regarding their services. Second, I think most of us agree. However, approximately Thirty percent of the Icelandic health systems are in private business. [[The president calls.]] These include dentists, psychologists, and institutions, such as the U.S.A. and beyond. [[The president calls.]] Is it not fundamental that the State ensures that this service is rendered, not the main concern of who runs it?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u126	Mr. President. The answer, of course, is legitimate. Like people who work in public institutions who endeavor to provide them with services as best they can, a member of the body of the local body recognizes that they are in the ministry. I don't think there's any difference, and there's no disagreement. I believe, however, that the problem we have with public health institutions, as well as with some private drivers, is primarily the lack of money in the business, where there is simply a shortage of money. As a result, man's hard work and stress are also involved. In connection with it is such a terrible ugly word, which may be the ugliest word in the Icelandic language, a reperfusion problem, in which old people are stuck in the hospital, do not get into an institution that meets their needs, so workers are stuck in rendering them services and living under unmanned stress in all too poor wages.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u127	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I wondered if our basic problem isn't that we don't know exactly how much things cost. I've listened to an interesting interview with the director of Iceland's Medical Insurance in the field of expert practice. The organization did not seem to know what it was buying or what it would be fair price for what was being done. I'm afraid I think the same problem exists in the public health system. We don't know exactly how much things cost. I think it's basic before people get very far ahead in this discussion that they realize the cost of medical work, the cost of the service, what it takes to do. The government buys a service which they want to buy equal hands from private agents in private business and public systems. But fundamentally, it must be the same foundation that this entire operation is in, of course, the government agency, such as any other business or operation. I think it's fundamental that the state is a good buyer of services, the State understands what it wants to buy, what is required, and then it is followed by quality requirements. Then I think that some of these discussions will disappear only over which service is to be done and how much it will cost, not who, but who will give it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u128	President. Yeah, I'm sure you're right. A senator with a sense of cost, not just in the health system and not just in the health insurance department, but in the general population of Iceland, could be better. I think there are a lot of stories about money being bad on the health system. We have many cases of action that may have been paid irreparably from public funds, perhaps at the time of the urgent need. There have been times when an ugly, boring word has been used, too much to cure. The system appears to be built in the impulse for doctors to take action that may not be absolutely necessary and then they have a clear account. The main thing I think is that the public in Iceland wants health care, safe health care, and doesn't want to pay them too much, wants them to be paid from a common fund of citizens, and that they don't give them money to guide them, but they have other viewpoints.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u129	A respectable president. We'll discuss funding again at the General Assembly. It was a time before government law that great talks were made that the law should not be a standard case at the General Assembly. They were often used as part of a normal program, as part of some kind of law that was to be discussed later than the law itself, and in other contexts. By means of a law on public financial matters, however, the challenge was to improve significantly the way we handle money. I think that it basically went along, except for the sake of some reason. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson often mentions that the law is not accepted when it is not convenient or cannot be found realistic, which in itself is bad. At any rate, I must say for myself, after working here at the General Assembly before and after, that I find it harder to understand the government's financial issues by means of these laws. It may well be that this is because I have not personally been assigned to a budget committee since those laws went into effect and have simply not studied them well enough afterward. That may be so, but I think the public citizen who is planning to learn about the government's finances has the same problem, even though the change is better for our work here at the General. It was just such food for meditation, as is sometimes said in English. Investors have so far been criticized for their existence, but I think that we all agree that there has been less reason to have money money money than we do right now. At the beginning of the year and early last year, we knew that we would not know how to handle the State's financial situation or much of our economy, if that is the case. That time has been quite a roller coaster. A lot of things have happened that may be unusual and may not have been readily anticipated. A simple example is that not many years ago people would have expected a rather powerful inflation. Some people here talk like they've become some terrible inflation. But now, in recent years, it is spoken of as a terrible, even under these circumstances, that may well explain what we have become accustomed to in terms of inflation, or from 2011◯2013, something like that. As a result, we have been allowed to live in low interest, low on Icelandic scale, the lowest Icelandic history, but of course, we are accustomed to extremely high interest, also historically, and therefore the comparison with our past is not necessarily fair. It's been an unusual journey, and now it looks like we're scratching ourselves out of it gradually. The question, of course, is, What will happen? It's the same story as before: We know we don't know. I'm going to go out there later in my speech, but I'm afraid I'm going to go through that all the time in question, and I'd like to mention one thing that's been on my mind for a long time about the government's institutions and especially how they're financed. That's what I'm trying to say is that we're used to it. You do not have to be left to feel that institutions such as the police, the Foreignland Institute, the Allegorium, the health system, especially mental health care, and prison systems and the like should be able to perform their legal functions, at least. One has an understanding that there is a crisis when there is a pandemic and a collapse of jobs in Iceland. You can understand that. But that's exactly why I want to point out right now that these institutions are not new. Before a collapse, there was some maniac going on in the general community, hardly any of the time that can be set up as an example in the delirium that characterized them not only the banking functions but the work here at the General, how politicians, especially the Independence Party, treated our economy, the environment in which the banks and financial institutions worked. But then came a collapse, and there was, of course, an understanding that these institutions could not be financed. All right. Later, there was a good return, a good time, after a collapse, and before Covid, where we had it just, the bad language, a respectable president, a financial society, a society that had little to complain about compared to other nation states and much of our own nationalities, historically. Yet, these institutions were generally financed. It is customary that the government agencies come to the Generals, especially to the budget board, and make money, and have to explain their existence, to what they are to be there. They do not necessarily do so on their knees, they just kindly point out that if the General wants his own organization to have a role to finance it. But Lenska has become so normal that institutions are not generally listened to. It does not add to the fact that it seems that it is an accepted practice, at least in some places from the news, to ask for financial support when it may not be necessary. Then I'll return, as I did here earlier today, in a radio interview at what. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon, who was a radio director in his day. He said plainly - I don't remember exactly how he put it, a respectable president, maybe I'm unfair here, but my understanding of it was that he felt irresponsible not to ask for more money as a radio manager. Now's the time. A senator not in the hall, so I have to make it a matter of warning that he may be able to correct and answer for himself, but he does not have the opportunity to do so right here and now, and I'm asking him to do so in a good way. At least this is my understanding of this blessed interview. This has troubled me, especially after the discussion that followed, some people were shocked by this, and other people said that, of course, this was the case, that institutions were always asking for more money, though they had nothing to do with him. A respectable president. If so, I'm going to ask their authorities to stop, please, because it pollutes the discussion and pollutes culture. We should be able to heed the warning words of the agencies that show that they cannot perform their legal functions, take their place, and finance them at all times so that they are not a permanent natural state. At least it's too much, a respectable president. I could take some institutions for special purposes, e.g. Foreign Institute. It's a crying joke, a respectable president, what's being done with financing in that group, and that no one seems to realize that it needs to finance that agency better to get rid of the problems that come about because it's a simple example. One is the prison case, where we speak of reform, something that all in this room believe to agree, and everyone is willing to put in song lyrics and Congress proposals and articles and talks. It is hardly a way to keep such ideals in view because a prison facility is simply not well - financed enough to fulfill that role. A respectable president. I reiterate that I'm not talking about some Covid situation or collapse, I'm talking about the good stuff between here and there. I'm talking about the so-called normal year trip. It's some culture I hope we can get out of when it comes to financing a government fund. It should not be a normal thing every day that we employ organizations and not believe any of them when they ask for more money to do their job. That's not okay, Mr. Honorable President. Enough about that for now. When we look ahead to the road, beyond the specific circumstances we are in right now, I think it's a little important that we look at the diversity of our economy. In fact, Iceland has been a rather unique economy. The road has been very extensive, later large - scale aluminium production and industry, and then tourism, after the collapse most, but, of course, it had already arrived. Indeed, the variety of the Icelandic economy has increased over the last few decades, and that is good. But we would have to increase it more, and we can increase it more. One senator mentioned it earlier, good if it wasn't a reason. Thirteenth. We're out of Suðvest. , that in the past nobody would ever have predicted that Iceland would be a great name for robotics production or game production. There are fine examples of things that we at the Generals may not have planned in advance for Iceland. That's how innovation often works, we don't see in advance what we're going to do on a global scale. However, as much as I agree with it, there are also certain things in which we should be able to know that we have testimony and grounds to support certain ideas that have become historical and flourished by receiving a little help from the state, even though they may still be driven by private agents. I'm still going to mention the industry, which I may say a little on this one, but I do it because that's what few others do, though alone. It's the space industry I want to mention again in Iceland. He's not very big yet, but he's there. Today, the space industry is changing from simply being a question about the Soviet Union against the United States or the government in China or the government in Japan, and it begins to revolve more and more about the private enterprise. One human enterprise operates in the space industry around the world, including in countries such as Bangladesh and South Africa. Malta is part of a space science program, Luxembourg and other small nations, and we have every opportunity to participate. But that may not give us the full scope of the vision to help us realize that this is where we have a place. I don't want to pretend that it's the State's job to set up here some huge government agency to hold on to space science and space technology. But there is a industry that will grow around the world and is growing. He's becoming a private industry all over the world, and we're supposed to be involved, and we can do that now, and we really don't have to do that. You don't need a booth to do that. We just need to realize that we have the opportunity to do so and finance a simple point that is in our involvement with the European Space Research Institute, which is a long-term project, just to be clear. It doesn't happen in one day and shouldn't happen in one day, it's okay that it takes a long time. We may also need to be able to realize that, as we did not foreknow or film production at the time, we must also not sweep off the table of such ideas when they are faced. I think that at the time, people would have pissed off the idea that we'd become a big part of these things because it's unusual, we weren't there at the time. Hence, we need to keep our eyes open and open our minds and to support what we can, of course, within reasonable limits. It was the time before an explosion that Icelanders were generally more interested in software and technical services. Sadly, the public's trust and belief in various institutions and even industry fell, and something else took over; a different kind of worry, people may not have been deeply concerned that we would not become a nation in the software industry when people faced a collapse of economic systems and subsequent collapse. I understand that. But I'd like to remind you that that that part of our great debate at the time wasn't part of the bank collapse or the mess around the banking industry at the time. We have the tools in Iceland, the creative and software and the related factors, the ideals in general, even. It's the only limit we have really, just how much we can create as individuals, there's no natural resource we're going on to say, but only people in a town or a company or a government agency or whatever one, university, many ways, and many environments possible for us to succeed in that sector, and we need to see the opportunities where they're offering them. Now, I'm done with the time, a respectable president, and I'm asking to get back on the rosary to continue with this fist.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u130	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for a well - informed talk in many parts of the congregation. I'd like to hear a little bit of it. A senator about what I had to say. paritaprevir Valdimarsson Steindór was about earlier on the matter of public health care and health care business, health - based interests in the face of other viewpoints. Looks sharp. A member of the body so that there is personal health risks, which could even result in the worsening of the service and the need for patients to pay more than that? Does he feel that it will be dangerous if the clinics are run by shareholders who need to be paid for money? I'm curious to hear the attitude of a man. In this discussion, a senator who is being given up a debate throughout the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u131	A respectable president. As an analysed middleman, I must say that I am not quite at the ultimate conclusion personally in terms of this question, i.e. private business against government management in the health system. I understand the point of both sides, but I have to say, personally, I'm starting to lean even on the fact that there's nothing wrong with having a private business as long as the financing comes from my concordance. That's the key. I find it interesting during the discussion that we are in that place that we ask whether this service is to be financed by private servants or is it to be a government agency to serve as a minister, but there is no apparent disagreement that this service should be financed from a treasure fund, the main theme. I don't hear any discussion or reason about it. I think it's important to keep it up. I sometimes say about us kids, I think I'm a knicker, and, in fact, I think the vast majority of Icelanders are, that our problem is that we've won. There are so many things coming from the direction that's just norm today. Of course, one is that the health system is financed by consumption, another is social security, unemployment reforms, and other things, which are actually no longer reasoned on whether to be there or not, but rather about some of the tools such as this. To tell them, I heard exactly during the discussion earlier, and I fully understand and respect the point of view that if private business is too great and the authorities want to reduce the so - called booth, however they define it, there may be a tendency to deliberately undermine the official section to lead people into the private sector. I don't think that's fair, and I'm against it. But I am not entirely convinced that it will prevent private business from taking place. Rather, I view it as a problem that can be met by some kind of rule or reference or whatever. I must admit that I simply don't know the jury well enough to make upbuilding ideas in that regard. [[The president calls.]] I'm a little bit on both sides, but I'm inclined to believe that a private business is all right, provided the financing's off the same schedule.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u132	A respectable president. Yeah, it's good to be on both sides, it's healthy to be at that place. You can see both ways instead of seeing in one direction. But I just want to do this, because I feel that this is an urgent discussion that we have. to take here in this chair, and get the attitude of a man. A senator for another kind of public service. Then I'm thinking law enforcement, police. Hv. A senator noted earlier how some were speaking in the years before collapse. I remember the most unlikely men, given the discussion as it is today, speaking for the privatization of the police and speaking for the privatization of the law enforcement officers, and speaking of such an invitation simply to be received and then to some squads, law enforcement officers, in certain places, certain small places in the country. It could be offered a little as if there are some health companies taking care of health care at such places. I'd like to hear some of it. A senator, how he felt that the law would be in the hands of a private member who would pay from the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u133	A respectable president. It's tempting to talk a lot of pessimism over the years before a collapse in Iceland. These included the idea of privatizing the police. But I'm going to take advantage of this opportunity to continue this wonderful philosophical relationship. We can learn much from the fact that other nations have tried either to personalize a certain type of service or to the extent that it was never a State's success. One of the most clear examples of this is when prisons are private, financed by tax money, and private driving. What happens then, and this is very clear in the United States for forming, and in other places where prisons are private, there is an interest group that has a measure of interest. And what interests? Yes, the fact that people are locked up, that most people are forbidden, that the punishment is as cruel as any, and that the person is most likely to return. This is totally indiscriminate to what we are trying to achieve by means of a prison system, these goals are quite the opposite. I sometimes say about market economy and capitalist, it works, but we need to realize that it works even when we don't want it to work. It's like a sports car that can go much faster than all the other cars, but you don't really want to go as fast as you possibly find out there's a wall in front of you. Then you want to go slow. Maybe it's a bad metaphor, maybe. But I'm afraid, e.g. that if the police were private but profited with tax money, these interests, interests for recognizance, were considered to be illegal, that interference with the citizens was completely profitable. I can't see it quickly by the medical system, but I can see that there are potentially similar questions there, whether they could develop interest groups that would benefit because the people in general had a very unhealthy life. As I say, I don't see it quickly, but I'd like to take a good look at that point if it were to happen that we would decide something permanently in that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u134	Mr. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir The fine talk of the Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson I just want to talk to him about the innovation and whether we can find a project we're going to encourage business and individuals to hang out inside, or a stage I might have rather to call it. I think that's a very good measure. A senator was involved. The first thing I think is that we need to try to create the general conditions so that our job life can thrive. We need to create the general conditions for people to be able to learn and to take advantage of their opportunities. Often, this is true, so there are all kinds of programs. Hv. A senator there named a big, important plan in the space field. I think there are just a few areas in which to think about getting in. I think of the context of how the world has changed in amazingly short time with all these new communications that didn't exist a few years ago, I'm determined to say, we've suddenly discovered that the brain is just an infinite resource, and the Icelandic brain can operate and have a place anywhere in Iceland. So I have a question for you, you see, for example. is now an Icelandic company that is trying to pump down carbon or carbon dioxide, Carbifix. It is obvious that Iceland has a marvelous opportunity here. This is an example of how the industry could be promoted. [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm talking about. Don't you think a senator would agree that we can handle this with a little bit of cremation?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u135	A respectable president. No doubt there is a balance in trying to figure out what the State should do and what should become natural in the economy. We must know here at the General and elsewhere in the system that the open mind, the curious power, is not necessarily the origin of the World Parliament or National Institutes, and it is naturally just because of the nature of the institutions. In the meantime, people in the private sector in that situation may rather grab ideas that require personal risks and personal enthusiasm and such. I put my lines down so I can think of two sectors. One is the software sector. You see, I don't think any programmers in general are looking very hard for a government trade in their jobs or ideas, they prefer to do their jobs peacefully, cultivate their ideas, maybe get good thinking protection, and something like that, but they don't really want the government to finance something or control where the work is going. I think that's because the nature of software is just how you can handle it as an individual and a lot of people do it. On the other hand, we come to something like a space industry where history has needed a measure of support because its tasks are large in nature. Then one person may be able to share a tiny part, perhaps, in a huge task. Then the government may require that we take part in early assignments and, for example, in this regard. is part of the European Space Agency. It's about that although we're not actually going to make spaceships and put into the cooler stuff that pops up on the mountains on Mars, we can still do some of them. But then we need to have access to the project. There I think the responsibility of the state is to ensure access to individuals and smaller parties, and Iceland is a smaller party, to such a major project. This is the meter I've thought about when it comes to that question. [[The president calls.]] Of course, this too is balance. We need to take the opportunity when it is obvious, but at the same time, we need to realize that good opportunities are not necessarily obvious.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u136	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. You're wondering a lot about this. Of course, it is a little difficult to control the human brain, but it may be possible to help him by giving him a sense of well - being and nutrition so that the person who has the brain in his skull feels comfortable and feels appreciated and encouraged. I think it's important that society approves of having ideas and making them useful. I find this very interesting debate on space science, and I'll be the first to admit that it all seemed rather ridiculous to me when it was starting to talk about that Iceland should try to be there. I was thinking about the big scale, whether we're about to launch missiles to other worlds and all of this. But, hey. A senator well described how it works. This I think is also a fundamental factor, that it can be achieved, and that can be both individuals and businesses, into the important work being done in many parts of the world. This kind of opened up to me that now I had the ideal opportunity to put the European Union into this discussion, for there are a huge number of projects in this field that just go on and encourage progress in specific fields, such as space science, and how important it is for us that we keep all of this door open. This is yet another reason why we need not, in some special way, even to make a form of offer for grace and mercy. [[The president calls.]] That's why it's still one thing why it is so important that we are full of participants and can open up all those doors. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u137	A respectable president. I don't want to start sounding like the only thing I think about in this context is space science, I just think it's so interesting. But I have to tell you, when we made our Congress resolution to apply for involvement in the European NASA of Astronomy, we had a little something to swear off our ideas of shooting up rockets here because it was such a foreign idea. But it was no more exotic, so we haven't even applied yet, ended up a long-term project, but there were recently launched a test missile in Iceland, and hopefully there will be more. So even it's not that far-real, that we shoot something into space from Iceland. That's what it's all about. A senator went over, about access to the world. This is about our being able to share in the areas where we are young. We have knowledge, and we have ambition, but we have no access to giant-growing projects requiring that they be either a huge nation, such as the United States, China, the Soviet Union, or Russia or anything like that, or a group of countries that share a common project and distribute it to the people, small and large, that are suitable for them. Germany is creating the rockets, and we can produce artificial intelligence in the larva that falls to the mountains on Mars. And we can. We have as serious as possible today in Iceland. It's not some dream. It's an opportunity we have today. But we don't have access to this project, and it's about that package. Of course, he is just one of many. It has also been said that we should be part of the CERN. I don't know it myself, but I haven't really done enough research to know if it really makes sense right now, but it can be. We are part of the United Nations. We're part of the EEA. That's because we're an independent state that we can share in things much bigger than the Icelanders could have thought of in 1920 or whatever we could do as a small nation. So it's all about taking advantage of opportunities, opening up private and public access to markets so that we can take advantage of opportunities that we sometimes face. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u138	Mr. President. I will give a brief talk on budgets for 2021 mainly on the health issues involved from several points of view. The concept of funding has lived with the council for a long time. If you do only a few things, you may be able to see it first in the January 1 issue of this magazine. Then, of course, we are part of the Danish monarchy. At that time, we were overwhelmed by famine. At that time, there was a shortage of grain, an emergency problem, and the need to respond to it and provide grain for us, so that the nation survived. We're still here, and we're still in 2021 on funding. The role of this term, a fund - making system, was cut down by a law on public financial matters, likely starting in 2016. In other words, only in order to meet all the anticipated expenses that must be completed within the year will there be no room for financial resources. No new projects, no more money, no more activities, no more business ventures, or other interesting tasks that may arise and capture the minds of those who control and control. Of course, how this has been carried out has been in all directions and has often been criticized over the past few years in this chair that funds are not always used exactly in the way that people thought and put in terms of financial value. There's a lot to it. Although the bill on this subject is highly cross-reacted by a pandemic crown virus, it is in a similar way also available to taxpayers who might and probably by the law of the law to be elsewhere, all of which are excellent, but can hardly be regarded as unpredictable, things that might hurt, e.g. To mental health, to that important subject. Of course, we know that with Covid, that matter gained weight. There is a group of paintings that have been funded for years, and there is only one good thing about making donations to him, but perhaps some of their features should be elsewhere and in better shape than in financial contributions. I'll refer to the expansion of the immigrant research clinic as another example, as well as measures that should contribute to increasing the computer and technology lock of the elderly. Though we are living in a special time, these may not be in the sheepfolds. Yet, there are also occasional gems in my opinion that both glow and delight in this financial bill. These include high school courses, as there is a budget for promoting mental - health services in high school, with a multidisciplinary school and psychology service. It is our old struggle in the United States, which we have repeatedly submitted during recent meetings, and of course our hearts rejoice in it and in these circumstances, although we wanted it to be a much more insistent of financial matters. Then there are other important things that are left on the move and are not responding. This is serious and is not adequate. Of course, if you're thinking about it, there's a lot of groups that are in the community that have gone very hard in the Covid epidemic. But it is true that the budget is not an area for economic management of the public. Medical institutions have worked hard in recent months to maintain and maintain nuclear services and have managed to impress them, but they have lived and are still in a state of uncertainty and financing, and they need to look from month to month and to no longer know. Closes and restrictions on operations have caused a breakdown in the activities in most areas, and the organisations have faced the acute response of the pandemic. Other measures and measures may have been changed in many cases, and the waiting period for selection procedures has increased from time to time. Naturally, the budget should have covered these issues, to increase the number of measures mentioned here on lens, joint replacements, and various selection procedures in the field of gynaecological diseases. It has not been lacking in the will and motivation of employees and the sense of responsibility, and the motive is great. But the management problem of these institutions is a concern. Many of these may have experienced accumulated problems, and divorce is likely to have increased. They have not had much table for food, and many are constantly acquitted to keep the scourging floated. All you can do is take your hat off the good job. Of course, when these institutions struggle to endure from one month to the next, the question is urgent: Has the minister, the minister, and the Ministry, responded adequately and supported health care facilities? This needs to be done well and must be done quickly. It needs to enable health institutions to reach calm waters in the acuteest. The health - care crisis is varied. In part, this is an inflexible management environment and a financial environment. It's an obstacle to institutions. They have, as I say, lived under years of funding, and the government's financier has not had the opportunity to perform a more flexible service. What, then, are the resources of these institutions? Bank agencies are being consulted, or they are simply collecting business debts and paying high interest. Some agencies pay millions, even more than tens of millions, to maladies each year. Therefore, it is important to look to the health institutions with keen eyes and to respond quickly, short - term and longer. The environment of strains and various healthcare practices, those in the clinic, must be brought to the present time. We know the discussion of cost analysis of operations, of the current cost of operating, of assessing the cost of operating, of not hiding it, of paying it not just in part. This, of course, has to do with basic professional structure. This is relevant to all costs of monitoring and maintenance, the Ministry and Minister's policy. That's the problem, Mr. President. The present government has not been successful in any changes in health - care funding. There is continue to be a large wealth of money unremarkable on both sides without creating some means of direction, a guide to how we want to create the system, where to focus, how to perform the ministry, and who to do it, how and where it is most practical. Under such circumstances, government officials in public health care have even been in a unworthy position, even shouting in public squares about the need for more money in undefined or undefined activities. These committees and members of Parliament, like boners, have been appointed, and it has been the order of the Generals to weigh and assess their requests and to comply with them on an appropriate basis. Mr. President. It is a complex and challenging group of subjects, and it is easier to speak than it is to get out of the way of solutions and organization, but it cannot be avoided. We have to do better than that. We must endeavor to maximise how we share our funds so that it can be settled. What about the work at the expense analysis of land hospital projects, the so-called DRG credit system? There is no mention of that in financial contributions or in financial programs. And, of course, cost analysis is not limited to a land hospital. It is a key when it needs to be determined. The same is true of Land Hospitals, Health Services, and Health Organizations all over the country. Thus, independent professionals, clinics, and private health - care centers are financed. Their position, Mr. President, is in any other way. We've been tracking the fund on financial activity of independent experts recently sending health insurance bills for everything, big and small, job jobs, housing, and equipment loads, and so on. However, it has developed a very peculiar way of working on costmaking, who it really is, and who appreciates important factors in this relationship. Yet, there is a price of unity, or standby value, and pay accordingly. This is true of personal activity, not public. What is her lot? Or is it the evaluation of the government that this is so acceptable and that the health system is well funded in this way? It's natural from time to time. In view of emphasis and priorities in the cost of analysis, you're kind of thinking, even stunned. A bill for financial support has been proposed to an additional $1 billion for nursing and residence. This sad situation shows that there has been a breakdown in the outcome of the party. Ideas are bankrupt, too. This is only for one year, and on the stick there are conditions that have, to be honest, a bit of overtaste of force. The increases are to be resolved at the beginning of the next year and will be paid out if the operators hold on a little longer. Actually, the problem is left unsolved. It is absolutely clear that in the permanent foundation of this service, about 4,56.5 billion are missing, but the government is not paying attention. Mr. President. The cost of analysis in medical care is not a simple process, and as a result it is unique in the management and implementation of these tasks, the degree of the cost of analysis in the activities of the strains e.g. However, it is relatively easy to manage aging institutions, since the structure of the operation is not as complex as in hospitals, for example. Stability is quite a few and relatively easy to build a calculus on most factors and prowess. Why is the function of aging plants not measured? I hope that's what you'll start at that job. Mr. President. I don't have it all. I believe that neglect is widespread in the health system, and we should have a decent way of correcting it with open eyes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u139	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator's speech. In particular, I would like to mention what he was saying, that financial contributions are to be taken care of in terms of government funds, which were unforeseeable when budgeted. It's not that long since we gave the budget, and although we live in a time of uncertainty, there are still things we knew in December and saw to it. This document contains some ideas that I feel are about to come back to life; I recognize them from the changes made in a Senate hall in December. I'd like to ask you what. A senator would find, e.g. not to be a fairly large resemblance to work market operations in this bill for financial support, which is the largest part of this bill, starts jobs, the strength to be reimbursed in a previous employment rate, and all of it, with e.g. proposals of the United States that were dropped here in December and went back to raising jobs and granting employment grants if they employed people of unemployment? Then, in the fall of that year, much was discussed about the need to extend the income - related period of unemployment. I would like to wonder with the senator whether we are really talking about, in this financial bill, unpredictable expenses, or just the financial expenditures that the management department suddenly began to feel more uncomfortable not being fed, because people realized that what the management voted against in December would be what society might need one of the most.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u140	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for an excellent answer and speculation about the precariousness of existence and what should be considered to be a guess. We have lived this unique time, and it has been more than once and more than twice that such decisions could not have been made unless, in later stages, due to the extreme uncertainty. But it is true that there are many months, perhaps almost a year, since we made up a few things that might have been helpful. However, it is a delicate matter, and it matters who has the ideas, each with the suggestions. This vital point, to eliminate uncertainty, we can agree that there is a tremendous point, but basically now the government is probably implementing the regulations we pointed to and did not hear before not so many months ago. Some noble thinkers may say, " No matter where good comes from. ' If it's for our good people, it doesn't matter whether it comes from the government or from the individual groups. But it is odd that humans have not achieved better and better on a number of important factors. [[The president calls.]] Of course, we are concerned about the group of people who are lax in society.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u141	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. It doesn't matter where it comes from, the senator said. Then let me mention that in our basic policy, Pirata is just one of the things that we stress that it is no matter where a good idea comes from; if it's good in itself, we'll support it, just on a grammatical foundation. Unfortunately, there seems to be a minority opinion in this room because we see far too often an example of good ideas being set up here in a Senate hall just to gain afterlife as rulers' ideas that could not get them approved by the government. One thing I would like to mention, too, is that I know that we are weak. A senator is a great allies in the battle for the people of his field. That is something that has been very much discussed here often during the past year, following the approval of a student's Education Act but not a follow - up process. And in view of the fact that the job situation has particularly bad effects on students in Iceland, their colleagues from abroad rely on secular work by education for advancement, students have called upon students to have the right to academic unemployment. This adds some summer jobs for students, who were completely anticipated in December but are not touched by this point. They would have had the right to add this document, which would have added the security of students in the country. If it hadn't been necessary, it would have been great for the state because everything would be fine. [[The president calls.]] Wouldn't we have to live up to that idea in this bill for financial support?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-31-103.u142	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's answer for the second time. Yes, we experience this strangeness of breath in a chamber to reflect the community, should be a paradox of society, but I often get the feeling that things are separated from the context and from the everyday affairs and that we have the life that most people live outside the hall and that they do not get together on reasonable solutions in all cases. If there is reason and practical suggestions, we should be able to unite in this materialistic foundation. We've seen heartbreaking events in this relationship that are grizzly. The smaller items are inclusive, and within a few weeks or months, they are offered and approved by the majority. But this attitude will be changed when new governments, young politicians, come into action. As for students, things have probably changed since I was a student and for the day. The stone's broken down, but we're too short. Study, of course, is a valuable work. We need to invest in valuables. It matters how this process is being done, that students can do their job and do their work smoothly, and that is just equivalent to each other's work. [[The president calls.]] I support the senator's ideas.
