ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u1	At a meeting of the presidents of Congress on Friday, January 29, an agreement was made for the changed order of the assembly week. From now on, meetings begin on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Thursdays. 13 but Mondays aren't meetings. They're just committee and body meetings. The arrangement will now apply in February and March, as a means of testing, and it is particularly intended to determine whether this organization will be in line with the introduction of the workweek shortening.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u2	To answer these questions: Economic and economic ministers, transport and local government ministers, foreign and development co-Progressor, travel, industrial and innovation ministers, marine emissary and agricultural ministers, and Ministers of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u3	Mr. President. Since spring, we have been calling the United Nations for the government to respond with a more powerful and bold response to mass inactivity and uncertainty in the economy. The last laws of the government were weak in this respect. It was only assumed that unemployment would be reduced by 1 percent in the next year. This criticism is confirmed by the New National Standards of Iceland. The authors believe that unemployment will be considerably higher than previously expected and that government investment will be lower than previously hoped. More than 26,000 people are now out of work and predict the next year's going to be 9 to 10% unemployed. It is wise in the situation that the government uses a good loan and investment policy to further attack on the more efficient ways in which it can increase the value, create a job, and, above all, prepare new exports and, more important, to provide much more support for those most in need. Simply put: The government does not create enough jobs in a historical employment crisis, does not guarantee jobseekers proper support during difficult times, and does not overpower their public investments. We watched last year's public investments, which is despite the extensive investments of Reykjavík. On the other hand, we get up late and when the country has been vaccinated, we start hurting, especially those who have been so unfortunate as to lose their job and the crisis becomes more severe. So I ask for clear answers from the highest. Financial Minister: Is there any further plans to add to the public investment? Will the government respond better to all the worst who came out of this crisis, and then how?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u4	A respectable president. I can't help but agree with what. A senator is concerned about his unemployment. That's the worst image that we're going through the worst economic depression we've ever seen in the last century. The government's actions are precisely designed to reduce the depth of this economic depression by working with companies through the most difficult times, with varied resources that have been designed to maintain the recruitment relationship where possible, facing the situation where it cannot be done, providing support in the form of loans, and direct support payments of a greater extent than we have seen and go at the same time in an investment campaign that we have financed. While the government's investment level is not in itself a special concern for long periods of time, it is true that concern is concerned that the level of government does not seem to be able to increase investments as well as the government is doing. Of course, what is the greatest concern about investment in the country is how much of the employment investment is intertwined. We've recently made the budget. It is only a month after a new year. We're keeping a very close eye on the state of employment development in the country, i.e. how the unemployment centres change from month to month, and we will intervene as we believe that they can produce results. We also believe that this will be supported at the council if necessary. Of course, we need to be efficient, and I welcome these emphasis that I feel I have heard too little since then. A senator says that we need to make lucrative investments, and he needs to advance and consider the future, not just increasing the number of government employees who have been at the heart to this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u5	Mr. President. V.E.G. A minister began well but ended up in an inexpensive cliché, and now February 2 is Groundhog Day, U.S.A., and most associate with that day, this is becoming a bit aggressive of a minister when he is in trouble. There is no ambition in reducing unemployment in a historical crisis of just 1 percent. Despite an investment campaign, investments are not designed to achieve long - term averages as the proportion of land production over the next five years. It does not mean merely to refer to our rural communities because from spring on, we have pointed to the fact that the rural communities that have historically represented 50% of all public investments need to have the ability to attack them. But the law has always been the same: They do not need help. Too little has been done for them. But I challenge a minister to join us in increasing public investments in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u6	A respectable president. I think that's what. A senator missees the situation. With full force, we use our government funds to prevent unemployment. Right away. One senator says, "It's only 1% in the professional phase what the government is doing, so he doesn't take into account that we're doing 320 billion angles this year, followed by nearly 300 billion squares of the year. " If we had chosen another way, saying, "Well, we just have to close this financial hole as soon as possible, then those 600 billion wouldn't be out there in the economy just to prevent a huge unemployment. This is what it's all about if you want to ask what the government is doing. We run a government fund with the biggest budget ever shown in Iceland and more angle than any other country around us. That's the fact. We put 320 billion in this very purpose. The organization will then oppose the release of property so that we can finance these actions and want us to borrow more. [[The president calls.]] And that's what's so irresponsible about your language.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u7	...with no interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u8	A respectable president. Wonders and wonders are happening. ASI has been beat by such a mild - tempered sleep and has been raised by the long period of respiratory insufficiency. In a recent article, Snædal, president of the ASI, says under the permission of a president: ▪ Here on land, however, people have failed to be assured of survival, and there is good reason to be concerned about corruption and increasing inequities. It is not often said that the basis for peace and democracy is to ensure survival. No one should be the exception; employees, jobseekers, desperate, elderly. Everyone is to live with security in a fair society. The wrong was present for the code. People have long been placed in a straitjacket of cross - color decline in the welfare system, and often and often made it impossible to improve their lives without risking a forward future. This is unfair, making more trouble than it needs to be. There is evidence that the code will, in turn, add to the roughness and treat those whose feet are higher than those of the others. [...] In the year 2022, a year of inadequacy could become similar to the zero - taxing year of the 1980's. Then people would have the opportunity to improve their lives, to work out according to their abilities, and to be temporarily released from the straitjacket. There's the President of ASI presenting ideas of years of inadequacy, but the team of people has repeatedly passed a bill about two years of inadequacy at work. How's the big one? The secretary of finance owns these ASI ideas? And in this context to also stop chain-gated impairments of e.g. rents and special rents, as well as other unfair, man - made chain damages?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u9	A respectable president. So I just turn right to the question: Now I have to say, it's quite surprising to see this proposal coming from ASI. If we look at a group of people who suffer from financial losses in the social security system, ASI would like to suggest that we give them most of the money from this group that has it best. With delinquency, most crowns come to those who are best off those who have a cute head, very obvious. It's the least we can do. That's how the system works today. If you cancel all the cuts, it's those who have the slightest impairment at the bottom of the ladder. This is surprising because it is totally against any other ideologies that have occurred since ASI, e.g. In terms of taxes, and during this term we have just stressed that we were paying taxes, and we returned mostly where the need was most. Other than that, I have to say, a person is always compelled to come up in this discussion, reminding him of some basic facts about the provision of the households in the country. In Iceland, the average income is the highest known, whether in the northern or OECD countries. At the same time, the greatest and support systems for families are equal, according to Axel Hallur's report on family or better than in North countries, so almost no one is in the same direction. We do well to divide the parts of our society in a fair way among the inhabitants of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u10	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance for these answers, but I have to say I just don't understand them. How, on the other hand, does he get the impression that those who receive special rent are doing well, in a good place? [[General...]] [[General disorder...]] And how on earth does he think someone will eat the average amount of pay? Nobody eats the average pay, that's impossible. You eat what you get. Those that are, for example, those that are. falling off the unemployment record, where do they go? They're getting on the social system. How does the social system work? If there's any impairment, there they are. There's a dollar apiece, a decrease in the case of a mate. This sucks. They're putting people in situations where they can't afford rent, can't afford food for their children, or anything because they're supposed to live on one breadwinner, and they couldn't even live on two. Tell them that these are the best people, that they are the people who are best at it, and therefore they should not be restricted.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u11	A respectable president. I'm sorry. A senator managed to turn everything upside down in this discussion and put it into my mouth that I never said. I wasn't discussing specifically the groups he referred to here as the need for a better one and more between his hands. I have to point to that fact, because he comes up here with the idea of removing all the impairments... [[Up front.]] That's the idea. A senator, standing in a chair, removing all the poor social insurance like ASI, said that ASI had awakened from a brasic sleep and brought them a good idea. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] Then I pointed out that I would be surprised to hear it from that direction because it's so easy to imagine that those who have up - to - date pensions would, in the fact that we would eliminate all the impairments, just keep these pensions unchanged and get social security benefits. That's what I say is simply wrong. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u12	This request has been answered.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u13	A respectable president. I'm going to direct a request to the highest level. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers as prime minister of competitive matters. Last year, it was found that there were inconsistencies between the import markets of various farms in Iceland and exports from other countries, i.e. EU-countries and Norway. The review of the Ministry's staff gives further support. It is now known that the import of a so - called plant cheese has disappeared almost from the import reports since September of the year. A total of 216 tons were delivered in total during the last four months of the year, of which only 28 tons were delivered. No import was performed e.g. from Britain on plant cheese during the last four months of the year, but it averaged ten tons per month during the first eight months of the year. It is also carried out by imports from more countries. Has the minister, the minister of competitive matters, been examined for this indiscretion? Has the Minister examined how this illegal import has affected the competitiveness of the enterprises and the manufacturer's markets on the law? Of course, this is not a reference to this cheese import only but also to the import of other similar sites. These include one issue of this substance, which is already for treatment of courts and for the import of meat. It is charged with violations of customs laws and laws on money laundering. Then the governor has said that there are other issues of the same nature. In his letter from October to attorney interests, it was noted that certain immigrants were at this time interested in the office and that they could not form tax money without the approval or approval of the tax authorities. So I ask the highest. Minister: Will Ministers promote the rightness of the domestic products, which have been damaged by illegal imports, and then how? Will it be done with increased payment for farmers, or will the secretary promote financial matters that the tax collected ungold tolls and the export of the import tools that illegally brought the plant cheese into the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u14	Mr. President. I've only heard of that case as a matter of course. A senator wooding here, though it's not on my side. There's no special opinion in my ministry, and we haven't had a special opinion, so the customs are being heard for financial and economic ministers and the legislation as well. There's an isolated case with the Thomson, or after an incident at the Contestant Board, I don't have a perspective, and I don't have information about it and I don't have it in my head. So my general answer is, of course, rules need to be clear and transparent. They need to be foreknowable so that people who are supposed to follow them can do so adequately. If this happens to be a failure, I trust it will go its way. And if there's any mismanagement of the system or institutions in it, it's our job to fix it. It's not on my level, so I don't have any information other than that. A senator will walk here. But important is the fact that the rules are clear and that they are applied. If they're not followed, we have a system to catch.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u15	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. Of course, I'm fully aware that customs and IRS issues are under the secretary of finance and the general affairs of the agricultural Minister, but competitive matters are still under the highest scope. Minister. That's why I'm a little surprised if I have the highest attitude. A minister is that the arrival of the Ministry is, in fact, only in the context of the structure of the law under which the Contestant Board operates within and under but does not have reason to enter a single case that is truly under the Ministry, as this case is so clear, since the principle of competition is no less serious than the offense that has to deal with insignia and taxes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u16	Mr. President. First question: Is there a prerequisite for violation of competitive law? Is there a violation of customs law? If a fracture is suspected anywhere, it is relevant to violation of laws regarding which way it goes in the operating system. Even if they're going to photon the Contestant, they're going their way there without entering my board. The protocol on how to log, what to import, and what to do because if it is wrong, all procedures will be secure in the system without it checking on my level. I simply say, if the rules are not clear enough, they need to be clear. However, if it is clear and not applied, the consequences will come. The system is set up to catch it. I have not had reason to take the matter in any other way for a special consideration on my level. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u17	Mr. President. We're behind companies, we provide support in the form of loans and sponsors, says Minister. Now, however, the removal of income shops is stuck at the Fratelli. It doesn't fight, it doesn't show up in action. Access, technical problems and subheading of the implementation of both applications and deliveries, which appear to be very similar to what happened in our labour agency and after some, where the system does not meet the demand. Many end up having technical defects in the system where the pages do not show up, and you can't fill in a box, and people wait and wait. After the big promise that income dropouts returned December 10, so before Christmas, so a few days ago, it was at the end of January 2021 nothing came into the home of a majority of the operators. Then there's the proprietor strength. When you ask Skattti when you can apply for the penitentiary, there is little to answer: in the beginning of February, in mid - February, it's still in progress, I can't say anything. These are the answers. This delay is a major damage to the business and to the company that is already damaged by the situation and has not been helped since March 2020. On the board of directors' page, the tax will be available to apply for this strength in January. Now it's February, and there's no announcement at The Thomson's. It is then even more serious in terms of loans from travel guarantees, the first pay is now just within a month, March 1. How do companies who still have no entrance pay off these loans? These are big, important things here because these things have been going on through the council. The Senate did it by saying: "Yes, these are points that we need to do well. But now it is another month, and people have not yet received the help approved by the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u18	A respectable president. We did this at the end of the last year's most large issues requiring great preparation in the institutions of the State, which will handle these funding and support measures. I'm just going to say that it's disappointing that it's been delayed for as long as it's seen taking over and handling these matters. Yet, in the case of the income dropers, we have begun paying off billions of dollars, and premium action is being made to take over and deliver the penal strength. The only thing I can really say about this is that all the power you can put into finishing programming, preparing applications, and making their money is in the case. That's all I can really say. We have had close contact with the taxian who takes up this assignment. In recent years, he has successfully solved a huge challenge, and everyone really agrees that no one could have done it better by those who could accept this difficult assignment. Unfortunately, though, it has been necessary to ensure that technical solutions are completed before opening for application and payment. Many are under test for patience, so day and night are being worked to resolve these issues. I'm just going to say with regard to the travel guarantee that the secretary of travel has changed the date referred to, so it was moved forward this year in December.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u19	A respectable president. It's a pleasure to have the tourist scholarship from a travel guarantee fund. There's a lot of things going on around here in no time, but it's a little late. This is similar to the one in a work agency, as we have received information, where people who were on unemployment when the pressure came in late and later paid for the next month or the next one. There were delays that prevented people from getting their rights at the appropriate time. You would think that after that experience, we would be more alert to where the pressure is. In the collapse, for example. was under pressure in three problems, something like that, little or no stress in others. How can we better react to these pressures in order to prevent the ball from falling while it is important to keep it in the air?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u20	A respectable president. There may be two things I'd like to mention here. Of course, when we build laws and provide access to sponsors, because we have so many standards that we need to look into and then leave out the indicators for a company that we were concerned about would be overreaching according to standard rules, we're creating a complex system that's not quite easy to program around, and that calls for a very great deal of work. After the old song, we'd have done all of this in written communication. But we are trying to do this in a digital technology age, which requires preparation in a way that provides the right conclusion. I think that in the end it will be the right decision to rely on that kind of communication. This is a valid question, how can we be sure that the stress is spread, but what we have simply said to the tax is that humans can collect all the needed support and are working hard to solve these technical problems. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u21	Mr. President. A community unity is a delicate and complex matter, and it is not added when legalization is used, but the population of the rural community wants to determine the reasons for their conversation and to whom. Most people agree that the combined effects on services are consistent, a lower cost for management, etc., the number of rural areas, especially the lower. The government has decided to set the mark on 1,000 people and put a bill in them. Several smaller rural areas suggested that there be no support for that policy. In fact, the proposal was offered at 55% votes at that assembly, but it presents a significant difference in methodology. Many rural communities are already running a variety of basic services, such as elementary school, without being united. It has been wondered, then, whether a community of that kind is not a better basis for unity than a given population. If rural society already sees the best interest of its inhabitants with a joint college operation, don't you think it's a better indication of the need for unity than whether the population is above or below the figure 1,000? Mr. President. So I want to ask the highest. Minister how he feels about such ideas. Is he willing to agree with such compromises in an attempt to make peace and better results in harmony?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an interesting inquiry on a very important subject. True, he says that unity is considered to be a significant advantage in many ways. One of the factors is financial. In connection with work on this bill, two parties were offered to evaluate it, and after reevaluation, they both believe that there are about 5 billion that could be saved annually, which is considerable financial resources. One calculated that today the infinite would be 134 billion, which could be used to add services to the inhabitants of those areas. I believe that factor makes it worth looking at. But there are a number of other factors, such as democratic status. It is harder in small rural areas to get people to work, to sit in a rural government. There's a lot of desertage there, if you can call it that, as we know from the schools. In my introduction, I went right over the fact that when we left, there was a greater support for going this way, including the rest of the group. ... after the approval of the union, but then an additional national body was held where support was found to be reduced. We've heard a view here from the Hall that it's strange to find a number. It in itself is not a law in anyone's mind, nor is it in mine at all. To approach the matter in any other way was part of what I mentioned in my background address, that if someone else is here at the council, I am, of course, ready to do so. I encouraged the Senate to do so, so I am happy to hear it. A senator comes up here asking about my reaction. Then I can repeat it; I am totally open to all the ways in which the goals for a stronger level of government are met.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u23	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister for the answers to these ideas I believe was positive, and that's good. Of course, the key is to ensure that services are served, that the citizens receive services. The development of the government, the magnitude of its size, or the size of large rural areas, is not of primary importance. That, of course, is the main thing. I'd like to go from there to that question. Ministers only to the County Fund of Companys, which has considerable management and function, including a number of roles. The natural way of using a variety of equations, as indicated by the name, has been given special privileges. Somehow, I feel that this fund could be used in a much more targeted way to cover the objectives of larger and more powerful rural areas and better services than it is now being done. [[The president calls.]] So I'd like to ask the highest. A minister may not be able to take greater steps in using the equation fund as a more targeted control device in these areas. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u24	Mr. President. Yes, that may be just what we're doing with these financial motivations, which were part of the Senate resolution and are actually on the bill that deals with minimum population populations as well, i.e. We had certain financial motivations and rules, but they have changed so that the rules have become clearer to us as partners to receive financial support. In this bill and the decisions we've made, we've been talking about a much bigger and stronger financial support, up to a billion a year for ten, twelve years, and we can be talking about the fact that between 12 to 15 billion people would flow into rural communities that would take such a cohesion course. I'm all for that, that's what I'm into. Some people have mentioned that the balance fund can be applied to some form of starving policy and that it can use opportunities there to starve men to some sort of thing. I do not support it because it would go against what is obvious to the balance fund, such as a rough one. A senator rightly said, should be done. [[The president calls.]] He's supposed to balance the situation. So the other way is good, and we're taking her.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u25	Mr. President. Foreign affairs are not discussed too often in this council hall, as I would say. I'm going to file a case on developing cooperation, which, of course, is multiple, as everyone knows, and Iceland has a lot to carry there, knowledge, money and ideals, both humanitarian and equal. Natural nature is part of the reality in Iceland, but it is in many other places, both in South America, Africa, and elsewhere, and we have knowledge of this on the matter of monitoring, testing, response and other public protection. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers, whether it would be possible for him to increase the level of activity and funding for developing cooperation by working together on monitoring and response to nature, especially fire action and earthquakes, to countries that would like it. Other than that. It is known that we have been attending classes or schools associated with the United Nations University and are in the realm of geity, land healing, fishing, and equality. Now these courses or schools are to UNESCO. It's been going well and has strengthened and improved the development of the communities we've cooperated with. This has been very positive in terms and comments from the reviews and opinions. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if it is possible and desirable to set up the fifth school on behalf of the United Nations. It was a school that guided innovation in food, food, and biotechnology. There are some things we can share with neighboring countries in my opinion and contribute to progress in development and success, e.g. In Africa or South America or elsewhere, and this is also linked to the government's purpose to promote climate integration.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u26	A respectable president. I want to take this opportunity and thank you. A senator for the inquiry, both practical and objective. I'm gonna try to cross them. I mean, about the first thing that ever happened. A senator mentioned, i.e. Iceland's policy for international development cohesion generates a comprehensive framework for all of our development cooperation, which puts special emphasis on using Icelandic expertise. Through our support and cooperation with the United Nations key agencies in humanitarian aid and in crisis, Iceland clearly puts its weight on the scales and has our contributions rising. At the same time, Iceland is a party to submit the Risk reduction programme for natural disasters approved by the United Nations in March 2015. Then the State Department has supported the International Rescue Forces in the ruins of a natural disaster area. The Icelandic International Rescue Company is a member of an umbrella - control organization within the United Nations and is also on the European Union's response list. At the same time, experts within the National Aeronautics Association on the United Nations Special Alert List are linked to natural disasters. Then nature also comes into the training of students of the Earth's School, now under the hat of GR, the knowledge centres of development. On the one hand, it relates to general training in geology and, on the other, in the construction of energy workers, where natural hazards are often needed. Mayo, e.g. examine the possibility of a special field training under the signs of the Earth's School. In view of how Icelandic expertise and the field of firework and earthquakes can be used even more effectively in modern development, there are truly opportunities. And just to mention one thing, you might consider how the Department of State counseling could be used. This list has been carefully built, first in the field of geystic and marine soil, and now in the fields of agriculture, hydropower workers, and equality. Of course, that is not inexhaustible. In the second answer, I try to cross the rest of the question asked by a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u27	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer or answers, and he knows that we have come to nature in various ways. We're at a good homeground in certain areas where I'm absolutely convinced that we could share, let's say with those nations living in East Africa, in the Great Sigdal, where there's a lot of fire power, and like South America, where there are many countries that have both great earthquakes and firework. We may be able to help improve monitoring systems. With regard to school, I think there are significant parishions at the fifth school, which would be in the area of innovation because we have come quite far in certain fields, especially in terms of food and high - tech technology. So I'm sure we could do that too.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u28	A respectable president. Just so they say about what they're asking. The senator, I think they're both that we need to take a special look at them. On the other hand, I want to take this opportunity to tell us only what we are doing in this regard right now. Although we have no plans now to add more schools under the GRor, the knowledge center of development, we will, of course, do so. We're in a hurry. We're adding to it. These are ideas that we should examine in particular. However, we are now using a part of the Marine School for Use and innovation in the marine field to form when it comes to the treatment of fishing and the increase of prices in the high chain. That's the way it is, for example. researching how to increase the shelf life of production and improve smoking and water drying methods, especially in West Africa. But the big thing is, I'm glad it's there. A senator would like to come up with ideas and questions like this. A senator mentioned these matters, especially the development community. [[The president calls.]] I'll have these matters examined in particular.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u29	Mr. President. We here vote for wood law against not enforcing the gender-ratio laws in governments. They were passed in 2010, 2013. Unfortunately, there are still many companies who have not carried out this law, so it was that the company of women in the business I presented this case three years ago. Now it's this place, it's been through 2nd. and will be included in a committee between the 2nd and 3rd. I trust that the case will be handled well here, because it is not okay for these big companies to enforce laws from 2013 to draw their feet when other companies follow laws. That's not acceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u30	Mr. President. Despite the efforts to make the matter otherwise, it is, in fact, a very simple matter - i.e. that the law should be carried out. Unfortunately, this law has been refused to burn. When there is no penalties, it is easy to overlook them. It is so remarkable that some people feel that there is no need for some laws to be followed while others are concerned with them and that there is clearly a greater law in their minds. It is quite clear that laws are set for a good reason, and there was certainly reason for these laws to be put in their time, the laws for gender ratios in governments. However, we will not discuss that law here. Rather, we will discuss how to respond and honor when the law is not followed. Here we vote that guilty measures can be used when the law is broken and the Group of the United Nations supports that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u31	A respectable president. My understanding is that the matter should be discussed, between the 2nd and 3rd. That's fine, because it's okay to talk about it better. I want to say I don't like songs like that. I hate to have songs like this in the library, but I feel it's worse if they're needed. I hope there's a time when we don't need such a law, that we don't have to argue here whether we're equal or not. My assessment at this point is that we need these songs, unfortunately. So I want to say to private and company: prove they don't need to, prove that this will happen automatically without the lawgiver interrupting. Then we can remove these laws. In the meantime, however, whether we like it or not, we will remain in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u32	A respectable president. I can say with what. A senator who spoke before me. It sucks that we have to be putting laws on sexuality in commercial management. It's just ridiculous and it sucks. But these laws are in effect, and obviously such laws are needed because we have not even been able to enforce the law in force. What we vote for here is simply to have a penalties that companies don't follow laws that are in force in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u33	Mr. President. This case has been thoroughly discussed here, and I have clearly explained my position. There are some flaws in this matter, but I'm just gonna say one thing. There is a legal opinion in this case requested by our Middle Class, including the U.S.A. about the possible conflict with the constitution. The review of Professor Stefán's Már Stefánsson shows that there is some question about whether the bill stands in the legal capacity of the constitution. For this reason, I can't support the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u34	Mr. President. I say no to this bill for many reasons. I have been told that members of the council flocked here in a talk chair to state that they support equality. So do I. It's just not the right way to do it. Equality is not equal. Then we should probably legalize it that as many students of both sexes are to be held in the universities of the country and be punished if not. We can go very far on this. That's quite a way. We're going beyond the limits of property rights, as assessed by scholars, as well as freedom of society. We're forcing societies, free societies owned by people in the community, to choose in the governments of both sexes, as it were. We're under pressure and we're fined if you don't. This isn't equal. We're going way too far here. The General is going way too far on this matter. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u35	Mr. President. It has been reported that opinions vary the way we should follow this law on equal numbers of genders in governments. This was a discussion on the committee in the fall, and we wrote on the committee opinion, why. Senators of the Independence Party, in advance. In fact, we mentioned it in the treatment of the situation that we needed to see how a case had developed, how big a problem was left. However, we too are left very close to the fact that these laws are followed and carried out. Is the rod really the best way to do that, or how do we put our arms around it? We need to first see how big the problem is, for we shall also remember that many companies and societies in this country have worked hard to let these laws go, and we must not forget those companies and associates who have wanted to support this law.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u36	A respectable president. There's good reason to thank you. the welfare committee for the important solidarity achieved by the Committee in the processing of this matter. The whole committee has helped to achieve that solidarity, as has actually been done in the nation and in the vast majority of cases that have taken place. The issues needed to clarify now and the laws are addressed here to make clear and to support the sources that the authorities need to have. The proposals are quite some, reflecting on the other hand, the Commission wants to achieve common landings and, on the other hand, the joint vision of the Commission that the overall legal review must begin as soon as possible. Mr. President, it's a pleasure to know that this agreement has been reached, and I'm glad that this is the place.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u37	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a bill about a change in CDC. It was late because Páll's Hreinsson opinion was revealed in September. The one mentioned here would have wanted to see that there had been some factors in which he stated that it was important to work right away and to improve. It wasn't done. The case was repeatedly delayed, and my predecessor turned to the trial that I would have wanted to be more careful here at the high General Assembly. However, I am glad that the proposal for curfew and vaccination in the border was taken out, and it is commendable that the committee's work resulted in a meeting with these factors, this important bill, to be restored under the authority. Then I make a note of a verbal decision made by a pathologist. I didn't find clear evidence of how it should be, how it would be followed, etc. [[The president calls.]] In high - tech times, you can hardly see why. But I appreciate it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u38	A respectable president. I'm celebrating this bill. Often needed, but now is necessary. Yes, the overall application laws need to be revised, but what we are doing today is greatly improved in the position we are today. This is because we see that the South African species in Britain are being searched for and the British species are developing, so we must have all weapons in our hands to prevent these variants from entering the country. In New Zealand, people are to have double screenings and a half of a month's habits, but they were not sufficient for a single case, so we have to protect if we want to have a land without a virus. I rejoice, and we shall see now; we all have opportunity that the virus shall not come into the land again.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u39	Mr. President. It is a joy to see that this matter is for release in such a far - reaching way of peace. It is important to have strong support for important, essential measures to prevent disease. It is equally important that we who are in this hall guard the freedom of the people of our personal lives and of the commercial rights of their own people. At the same time as I'm glad that we've reached this landing, the Committee, I have to say, it's up to the awkward thought of knowing that the case as it was originally, when the committee got it done it, should have been done that way from the three states of the government, especially with regard to the curfew principle. I specifically mention this here because we've been discussing this year carefully whether it's over our heads that the council will be involved in the various matters involving the treatment procedures and other measures. If anything proves the importance of the council, it is the landing on this matter. I encourage that when we make the necessary revision of the total law, we take time, listen to all views, and take careful action.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u40	V.E.G. President. All I want to do is explain my work on the Committee. As a member of a welfare committee, we know that the matter appeared a little late, which made it necessary for us to work fast. I'm on the committee's opinion, but I'm on a number of short notices, the case is complicated, and I'd like to see a special ticket for the epidemic. They have done so, and they have even updated their laws in the first months of 2020, and this has worked well for them. They're to be typed into the disease prevention laws, and they're to be reviewed as a whole. It's got a lot of issues that need time to talk about, and I really hope that we'll have time to do that in due time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u41	Mr. President. Yes, it is good that we are building up for the preventative measures that have already been taken and that it is necessary to have a clear legal authority for them. There's a lot of things we can do, but we're waiting for a full reexamination. I come up here, though, just to correct a few words. paritaprevir Sara Elísa Þórðardóttir's daughter, who said that the matter had been delayed here at the General Assembly. There were no delays in the case, but there were evening meetings, morning meetings, and afternoon meetings to get the case through quickly, while the matter was important, and there was no delay within the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u42	A respectable president. Here we will discuss changes in social laws. One of the factors presented in this discussion is whether it is correct when such an epidemic occurs to be used by public laws, which we then need to examine further or provide special provisions for each pandemic, since it is so varied and cannot be provided fully in such legislation. But I'm glad we had these laws discussed at the council and that this was settled. Perhaps the strongest note being made by this is that when you are taking such burdensome preventive measures, it is important that you take care of moderate and equality, it is guaranteed and done with information and reasoning support for the need and why appropriate measures are taken. I think it's the most important thing in this that we're getting it, and then we just need to talk about who the real government will be in the general law and what it's like during this epidemic.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u43	A respectable president. I wanted to respond only to the comment. paritaprevir Helga's Vala Helgadóttir says that I've claimed that these pieces were here at the General, for the CIA or for the Committee to Re-Elect. I meant that the nature of the situation was delayed by not using the factors that Páll Hreinsson specified in his opinion, that no bill was written directly from those factors, causing delay in excusing the matter with regulations such as curfew and mandatory vaccination of the border that make the matter complex and that I meant delays in the greater part or in the government groups. [[The president calls.]] It was also not put first for New Year's Eve to finish it. My criticism turns to it, not to the General.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u44	The president reminds us that this part of the program is entitled to make an account of its vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u45	A respectable president. I recommend a board of committees on bill to legalize the change to general penal law, No. 19/190, round-handed. The Commission has discussed the matter and received her meeting with Sigríður Bergmann of the National Þorsteinsson of Justice, Úlfar Lúðvíksson Friðjónsdóttir og Vésteinsdóttir from Iceland's Women's Court of Women's Rights Association, Sigríður Bergþóra Björnsdóttir Steinunn of the National Institute of Human Rights, Dagríld frótir frógríldótir, Lógrífjörnógjörkógjörnógógógógógógógógógóðóðóðóðógógrógrógógárfógrógárfógrógrógrógrfógrógrógrógrógrógrógrógrógrógrógógrógrógrógrógrógrógógógógrógógógógógógógrógógógrógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógrógrógúkógógrógógrógrógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógógóg The committee received reviews from Iceland's Acquired Association, Iceland's Social Advisorship, As rights Association, Iceland's Women's Women's Rights Association, the Chief of Police in the capital area, the director of the Southnes, the Iceland's Human Rights Office, the U.S. Marshal and the State Attorney. The bill suggests that a new law of punishment will be added to the general penal law of 232rd par. a law. By means of the sentence, threaten, follow, observe, associate with, or in other comparable ways, you will be surrounded by another person if your behavior is repeated and incursment to cause fear or anxiety. One reference was made to the source of the new penalty that would improve the legal protection of the victims of the above - mentioned behavior. In addition, the importance of providing access to tolerability to counseling and supporting professionals as well as the education of those working within the justice system was also shown. In this context, the Committee points to an interpretation plan for the 2019◯22022 on action against violence and its consequences, No. 35/149, but one of the main objectives of the programme is to improve the work and treatment within the justice system and to promote tolerability. The committee proposes that the bill be accepted as unchanged. A Birgir Ármannsson of a year, who was absent from the case, signed this opinion according to a warrant at 4 mg. 18th par. Orders of staff members of the Generals. Under the authority of this scripture, Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir Árnadóttir, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, Birgir the son of Ármannsson, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Þóra Tóri Ajörnótir, Sabídur Gunundótir, Þórstein Sæmundsson, and Thordur Ævarsdóttir Orvardótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u46	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct policy-making programmes in transport, communication and rural areas. Its primary objective is to promote and coordinate policy and planning in the transport and rural environment with a clear vision and co-ordinated objective, thus achieving increased results and positive effects for society. The bill includes a new thought and important change of attitude in public policy and planning. It is therefore aimed at achieving increased coordination and better quality of the individual programmes of the Ministry's topic fields, making more political approach to policy development, improving consultation and conversation with the public and stakeholders. The four programmes that establish the Ministry's policy activities are a transport programme, a communication plan, a policy-makers and a national policy plan on rural issues. These plans involve all of the Ministry's main projects and are the grieving part of its policy and occupation. They are very close and unique, and emphasis is often involved at the same time. Thus Iceland's project is lightweighted to form largely geographic and improved transport linking both rural and urban areas. Increased coordination in this area next, by placing clear emphasis on future vision as well as primary objectives for all programmes. This allows us to maximise the effectiveness and positive impact of policy considering related issues and to look beyond specific projects of each category. Such consistent policy development, based on a clear and consistent future view, leads to more targeted measures and, therefore, better use of public funds, knowledge and technology. The first step in this direction was reached by validating legislation on the alteration of various laws to conform to transport, communication, rural and regional programmes, which took place in June 2018. Their aim was to achieve an increased effectiveness and coordination of plans, as well as specific policy measures in rural affairs. Plan-of-view procedures were consistent, as well as their shape and time spending, including ... basedon a law on public financial matters. With the bill, the next step will be taken in order to improve coordination. It clearly establishes that plans should be based on specific cohesive objectives and overall strategy of a minister, as well as on the coordination and support of the programmes in accordance with common vision and the primary objectives. The bill also includes the inclusion of regulations for the preparation of transport programs, communication programs, and regional plans to be combined in one law instead of three priors, and the content of these regulations is consistent, which includes a considerable simple rule in this field. Recent regulations for the government's policy-making programme, however, will remain in rural law, as this program has some special status due to the independence of the rural regime. However, policy measures in this area will be coordinated with the three programmes this bill will take as far as possible. This will include the regulations of the bill on preparation and contents of the estimates that are more simple than the currently existing laws, particularly the transport process. These laws were combined with four earlier independent plans that required detailed regulations on the subject, objectives, and procedures of the new integrated transport program. This need is no longer present, and more is involved with the development of legislation in the past few years, to further increase political scope for policy development according to the current situation. Congress protocols for transport, communication and settlement programmes are expected to be submitted once during the terms of term, rather than to be carried out at least every three years as laid out in the current legislation. Is this in accordance with the law on official financial contributions to the financial policy of a new government and underlined that there is a minister's policy in these three terms in the terms of the election. If the basis for the strategy changes during the terms or if there is any other reason, the secretary will suggest a change in the schedule rather than providing a new overall schedule. Thus, preparation and handling of such adjustments become both simpler and more progressive. At last, it is assumed that instead of annual reports to the Generals, the secretary will inform both the General and the general public about the progress of the programme in a regular and accessible manner. It is hard to find out how to do this electronic information, since all necessary information on the situation of the standards and individual actions and the provision of the funds will be updated regularly. Information on the results of spending within the sector and in the budget will also be published in the annual report by the Minister submitted in accordance with official financial legislation. A respectable president. I have now made clear the general subject of the bill and suggest that it be followed by this discussion referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u47	A respectable president. I recommend a bill on changing the law on local affairs as a result of a pandemic crown virus in Icelandic economy and society. The objective of this bill can be counted into three elements: First, I suggest legal adjustments that have the goal of increasing the scope of my community to attack more investments and to face a major problem of business because of the effects of the Korean epidemic on the Icelandic economy and public farming. On one hand, the period extended by rural society is permitted to deviate from a balance rule and a financial debt rule to 2025 instead of 2022. These are conditions that 64 C.E. Substitution that the sum of total expenditures for accounts A and B are not higher than combined regular revenues per 3-year period and that the total debt of A- and B-part accounts do not exceed 150% of regular revenues. In addition to this process, I propose a change in the law of a local credit card which allows the funds to be available to loans to rural society and to local institutions and companies due to their management problems. As a result of these changes, rural society is given additional space to meet the challenges facing the Icelandic economy, including some of which are now facing. to maintain a working level in the country and provide basic services. Is the change in accordance with the agreement between state and rural society from December 30, 2020, for the objective and survival of rural society in the year 20213/42025, and for the change in public financial law that allowed the secretary of finance to deviate from total balance conditions and the debt ratio of the government during the 2023/2025 years. Second, the bill is designed to make it easier for rural society to meet the operators who have problems with the epidemic so that communities can be flexible in their collections. Clearly, many companies, especially in tourism, have suffered a major loss of income as a result of a reduction in the number of tourists and other direct and indirect effects of the pandemic. The bill suggests that a law of real estate tax laid on a job building during the year 2020/2022 will hold its value for four years instead of two. In 2009, this was followed by the economic collapse of the law No. 6/2009. It is suggested that rural communities be authorized to reduce or reduce the growth of heavy property taxes due to job housing in the year 2020,2022. The change allows for greater scope for rural society to negotiate with the operators, who are paid for property taxes without risking the loss of the right of the legislature. It is assumed that the decision of rural management to reduce or down-growing growth depends on the obligation to pay real estate taxes to have problems due to a sudden and unexpected loss of income, resulting from general contractions within the country and on a global scale as a result of the Korean virus epidemic. Third, the objective of the bill is to ensure functional rural unions and facilitate decision making under unusual circumstances. With law No. 18/2020 was a provisional law added to rural administration, which includes the granting of national government ministers to the government's authority to dissociate certain parts of the county government because of an emergency situation. The date of the regulations was 31 December 2020 and the Commission's Committee of Environment and Transport was proposed to review at the end of the period in consultation with the rural communities themselves and provided experience with the implementation of the proposed sources. It is suggested that comparable regulations be legally established in a permanent way, but it is important that rural governments will respond quickly if an emergency arises, such as by natural disasters or epidemics. The circumstances of the two were known to be such that a local government or committee of its roads is temporarily difficult to enforce the formalities of rural government that are to be followed in general at the administration of a rural society. Clearly, such a situation may delay naturally and the necessary administration of a local society, as well as the possibility of uncertainty about the legitimate decision-making of the rural government, if disproportionately under such circumstances. In order to ensure that the community's activities continue as normal as possible despite unusual circumstances, it may be sufficient for the rural administration to be authorized to deviate from the individual aspects of the local government while such conditions persist to ensure or facilitate its functioning. Is here even. proposed that local governments be permitted to deviate from local administration policies and to use telecommunications in meeting rural administration. A respectable president. I believe that the legal changes presented here are a result of increasing the size of rural society and having a major problem with business management due to the effects of the Korean epidemic on the rural population, and I believe that changes are immediately possible. I have now made clear the general subject of the bill and suggest that it be followed by this discussion referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u48	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize the civil rights granting of more of the General and Education Committee. As usual, I will not give a long talk on the subject of the bill, nor will I list the list of names that are part of the bill. Full - time servants can study the evidence presented. All-American and educational committees received 133 Civil Rights applications at the 151th legislation but 1st. Section 6. The Act on Icelandic Civil Rights is legally granted to the General Assembly of Citizens. The committee suggests that the candidates for 30 applications will be granted citizenship this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u49	A respectable president. I propose here a proposal to smell the energy change in Iceland's flight. I'm taking this case on behalf of why. Environmental and transport committees involved in the transport of this issue. The General concluded to hide transport and local government ministers together with travel, industrial and innovation Ministers and resource ministers to set up a team of experts to develop policies and measures for energy exchange in the United States. The staff will recommend and discuss the following: a. How Iceland can be the top priority in flying energy exchange. b. How to support innovation in the use of energy exchanges in flight. c. The stability of the country's weather and its infrastructure due to flying energy exchanges, including in connection with innovation, environmental energy sources and participation in air energy testing and global development. For example, the aim of starting environmentally-friendly energy sources before 2030 will be established and how a projection will be compatible with other government policies on energy exchange, innovation and climate change. It is emphasized that transport and rural administration will be premeditated by a conversation between the manufacturers and the fliers with the aim of Iceland to become the destination of aircraft testing that use environmentally-friendly energy for passenger and freight transport worldwide. The task force submitted a report with proposals for Ministers no later than November 1, 2021. Ministers present the results of the group's work. In a paper with the Senate resolution, the president, including a respectable president, says: One of the greatest challenges of today's era is to counteract climate impacts. Nations must reduce greenhouse gas emissions by all means. One of them is transport energy. The General has agreed to a conclusion on the energy exchange programme, No. 18/146, the aim is to aim for the early use of renewable energy sources in all areas. Then the government has proposed a climate action program. An updated edition was published in June 2020, where 48 measures are made to achieve the objectives of Iceland in climate. Within the airport, energy exchange is being done vigorously. Rapid development of new engines for various types of aircraft attracts both the attention and the hope for significant progress in the use of environmental energy in national and international flights. It is the design of airplanes driven by mixed energy sources, loading electricity only, and finally by hydrogen. In the year 2022, electricity planes are expected to be marketed, and it is realistic to plan and encourage the development of the use of environmentally-friendly internally-friendly energy sources to be started in 2030, thus allowing for the drive of all the flyings that will be performed on national flights in the coming years, environmentally-friendly energy sources. In parallel to this trend, hydrogen - powered aircraft is expected to be suitable for average long and long flight routes. In this context, we should emphasize the opportunities here for hydrogen production, which such production is designed to support transport energy exchanges and to create a stronger place for the country as the destination for international flights. As an example of the improvement in energy exchange in air transport, the Swedish company Heart Aerospace has plans to get the first electrically powered 19 - spot aircraft on flight in 2026, which will have more than 400 miles [400 km] of flight and will be useful in an internal aircraft in Sweden. The design and testing of small airplanes for passenger flights and for flying lessons in the Norwegian regions that are powered by environmental energy sources, especially electricity, are being accomplished. In this way, a two - seat electric plane may fly from Reykjavík to the south of the year and back on a single electrical charge. It is assumed that such a machine will be ready as early as 2022 in commercial sales. One of the key factors involved in reducing the environmental impact of flights and air - related traffic is the provision of energy exchange for transport through technology development and the development of needed infrastructures. The policy shows that this trend has not only taken place among the big companies in the market, such as Airbus, Boeun, and Rolls Royce, but is also less involved in these activities, such as Joby Aviation, Bye Aerospace,Zanna, Pipistrel, Wright Electroly, Lilium, etc. The opportunity will lie in environmental climate change and transport in the coming years and decades, both by goods and by passengers. Technology will be particularly suitable here in many ways, since the availability of electricity is good and the land is wide, while roads are short enough for this new technology. So it is important that Iceland participates in this trend, including Because electricity is produced in an eco-friendly way considering climate targets. Energy exchange in the nation's aircraft fleet can bring up to 80% lower fuel demand costs and maintenance costs. In that case, even sound pollution can be heard because the machines are virtually silent on the flight and e.g. is nearly a hundred times less noise when you take off electrically powered aircraft than a standard helicopter. The flight of most eco-friendly aircraft will be free of emissions except for hydrogen - powered water vapor. Some complex aircraft will still release carbon gas from fire engines. Airport infrastructure changes with less use and finally with carbon fuel elimination. If it is successful in the coming years and decades, flights will likely be even more common and highly environmentally friendly compared to current flight design. Icelandic air travel can be an example in the environment, and thus Iceland can be at the tip of energy exchange during a passenger flight. It is important to support air energy exchange by promoting the use of tar and electricity planes as they become available. It should be policy that Iceland will be among the first countries where more of the aircraft in internal and educational planes is driven to main engines and tweezers during their lifetime. In this context, it is essential that similar applications and environmentally relevant vehicles should be considered. Another and more may contribute to the development and the importance of promoting a conversation between the manufacturers and the fliers with the objective that Iceland will be used for testing this new technology. By making the country the destination of a test of aircraft powered by environmental energy sources here a valuable experience and technology. It is suggested to investigate how to support the innovation of energy exchanges during flights and why Iceland contributes to technical development as well as the testing of machines from foreign manufacturers. The government is on the way of ensuring infrastructure for car loading stations and electricalisation, along with increased production of hydrogen for sea, land and air. Governments can contribute to the eco-friendly state of the environment in just a few decades. As per the opinion of a greater proportion of the Committee on Transport and Transport, the Management Board was given to the changes and environmental energy use in transport. 1685. The committee feels that it is right to take the matter more seriously and to use the current high force of air technology and the utilisation of environmental energy and thus contribute to the Congress's resolution. It should be noted that during the current legislation council, proposals have been proposed for the interpretation of the electricalization of short flights. The aims and content of the proposal are comparable to this arrangement, though the limitation of the committee's proposal is somewhat limited, and it is therefore a reason to take into account the views that this proposal is based on the work of the task force. A respectable president. As I have gone over, there is an enormous opportunity for us Icelanders to speed up transport energy exchanges. There are probably few nations if a few who have as much opportunity in that area as they do with Iceland. It is, of course, a turning point when the interpolitical committee of all the members of the General Assembly makes such a suggestion. The prehistoric conclusion is that after a covering-up of these cases from a knowledgeable source, it was decided that the committee should be joined on the proposed proposal. I believe the goals presented in the proposal are very practical. I think, from technological development and the rapid rate and growth in the air-space, energy exchange in national air transport could be more realistic in a much shorter way than in this strategy, even though it is realistic that international flights will become a major part of airplanes using environmentally-friendly energy sources as early as 2030. As suggested by the proposal, energy exchange has a significant impact on aircraft management costs and will result in a large reduction in flying costs if similar. Of course, there is an enormous point in the large context. It will simply mean that much more practical measures are needed to maintain a powerful air movement in the interior of the scattered areas, with faster frequencies and lower fares than we see today. Thus, it is often the benefit of a respectable president that we go this way. Now we know that the energy companies Icelandic, national activation and other energy companies are all looking for renewable energy production based on electricity production. It is mostly spoken of hydrogen. It was read recently in the news that a large aircraft manufacturer has already begun to develop the first larger aircraft, powered by hydrogen. If we look back at the development of a number of years, decades, the experience is that these things are going to happen much faster than anyone could say at the time when the first steps were taking. This, of course, is part of destroying fossil fuels in transport in Iceland. There's a lot of opportunities. This will then address other important issues that we are discussing at the council right now, i.e. Use of the energy available in the country. This has provided a completely new basis for the discussion when the prospects are how vital it is for this nation to look for more opportunities and a greater variety of employment and valuables than we have ever lived. It will be the basis for the growing welfare of society. So, in all respects, a respectable president, we are talking about something extremely important. It doesn't have to be a lot of words about the price of the currency save if we can cut off the import of fossil fuels and take up our own energy supply, I'm not talking about if we can become members of the energy export, clean exporting parties. Danes have to form, with as limited energy as they can play, plan to double their electricity production to 2030, just to become clean exports of energy like hydrogen. We look at devices that turn to hydrogen production. It is expected that next year a new cable will be passed between Iceland and Europe, a data transduction cable, which will completely change all opportunities for building data sets. We can become real participants in the less advanced world of data. The result is that it is a highly populated industry, increasing the variety of jobs and human life across a country where the location is very good for them. In the news for the weekend and this morning on the radio, interviews were made by the presidents of the United Kingdom relics who express to us that large producers, real people who produce batteries for vehicles, but also by future aircraft, not one, but more, are involved in a national event to see if they can produce such production in Iceland on the basis of green energy. There's another chance to show up again. These are exciting times, a respectable president. Of course, they call for our review of very important factors when it comes to the interaction between protection and the use of energy resources. We must be careful not to shut down the potential use of our most valuable and efficient energy because it will attack the competitiveness of our country in the more important times ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u50	Mr. President. I'm going to begin by expressing my joy with the initiatives of the Environment and Transport Committee and, especially, that the Committee is all involved in this clause. It is always satisfying when government and government stand together on good terms. It is also a pleasure that we found time to learn something about the progress that has been made in the use of environmental fuels on airplanes, and then it came out, as it were. In fact, Jón Gunnarsson's executive made progress faster than expected, and it could be said that it was similar to what happened with the electric cars or clean energy cars. It went pretty slow for a few years, but then the snowbolt always rolls faster and faster. It has something to do with it. For better and better ways are constantly being found to produce durable, light batteries. What we look forward to is a fleet of airships, even airships, such as in the past, not regular airplanes, but air balloons driven by motors and even in use, e.g. in countries such as Canada But we're watching, if we stick to the planes, small electric machines, which are kind of an air - mine machine, an aerospace machine. We're looking at some medium - sized electronics that can take up to 20 people. So when it comes to longer distances, it is highly anticipated. Airbus has been developing intermediate, long - range aircraft, such as we know and are being used in an internal flight on a longer scale now, by 20, 30, up to 70 men, and then again those long - range jets that are now known to be jets, are inexplicable and reach exactly the same speed or speed as modern jets, and are very promising. Then, during the time between engines and conventional machines, the use of conventional fuel may do something useful. Then you're talking about e.g. alcohol, biodisil or anything like that. So there is much to go on ahead in the air transport process, whether for passenger transport or freight transport. There are even machines that take their way onto the air and are then driven at a significant rate once wings and machines are turned in that direction. It is a technology that has already been used with conventional fuels, but such machines can be thought of as being equipped with environmental fuels. It turns its eyes on what I was going to discuss, especially, and there are airports. There's been a little bit of a float about the airport in two ways, both where they are located and just how comfortable it is to keep them in good condition. I'm thinking that because of the trend towards eco-friendly aircraft and the understanding that flying can become a major component of public transport, we have to plan very well to maintain airports, take advantage of airports that have been removed and put on new ground, because I predict that public transport with eco-friendly aircraft, or environmental aircraft, we'll say it gently, will be much more common than we're now. Of course, one reason is a much lower cost of operating when it comes to the machines themselves. This is not only less maintenance costs as we know about cars but also less part of fuel costs today. So I'm expecting a good transpolency on this timely matter, this timely Senate resolution, and allow me to thank my colleagues on the Environment and Transport Committee for taking care of all of this together with all of us within the board.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u51	Mr. President. I couldn't let it pass for me to say anything. An environment and transportation committee stealing my case. No, Mr. President, this was actually a bad attempt to party, and I'm asking for favors. I had to come up to thank you. The Environment and Transport Committee for setting up a case that I first proposed last year, and actually back in the fall, on the electricalisation of domestic flights. In fact, they go a little further than I had ever done, which I also consider to be a cause for joy, i.e. Look at more energy sources. Senators and I are often accused of not always putting the issues ahead of the council but I intend to claim that this is not the case, at least not with most members of Congress. You see, the subjects matter more than each one of us, and they certainly apply in this matter as well as in others. So I'm actually glad that the Environment and Transport Committee measures this important matter. It is safe to say that the development in this area is huge and that it indicates that when I presented my case in the past, it was surprising that it was talking about an electricalization of flight ends, it would be something that would take place far in the future and not be time to discuss. But now, Mr President, a year later, the importance of this matter is that we take care of it and go seriously to work on it even more than before, i.e. if we're not going to stay behind in flying energy exchange. Like what? It could also be an international revolution and to work for both the climate and the ability to build on our own green energy, as well as the rates and costs of domestic use. So I simply want to direct it to what? The Environment and Transport Committee will eventually be successful, as stated in the report, to consider my case as well as the progress of the matter, although, unfortunately, it has not yet been possible to recommend it at the council Hall. I hope with all my heart that in this way the possibility that the case will be won rapidly and safely within the committee and hopefully later agreed together in spring.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u52	Mr. President. First, I would like to thank you especially for this arrangement made by the Environment and Transport Committee and the initiative shown by the Committee by convening it at the council. This is a huge deal, and actually I think we're going to see a transport revolution in Iceland in the coming years and decades when it comes to the way of flying. I think it's going to be a lot bigger than we dare to hope and believe today that it could be in the next 10 to 15 years. Thus, it is important in this context that we consider defending and strengthening the existing airport system and consider the possibility of reassigned airports. I think we'll have such a change in how we use transport in this country when we have our energy change, whether it's hydrogen, electricity, or any other green fuel we use. Technology is changing rapidly into electrical flights, and we have seen tremendous faster changes in the last two, three years. Two, three months ago, e.g. installed in Norway plan flights, which in five years will be flying between Oslo and Bergen, perhaps 20 to 230, using machines. Norway is a leading country in these matters, the Swedes have also been very active and business there, as a leading authority entered the past, and this case is stressed by a great deal. Iceland is a coastal country and is ideal for electric flights, since flights can already be 250 to 400 miles [250 to 400 km] on electricity. We'll see that Reykjavík, 380 miles, is a 250-mile flight route, and if I remember correctly, we're only about 400 miles, 380 miles away. This technology already exists, and machines are capable of handling it. This is extremely important. It had also entered a flight policy adopted at the council and submitted in connection with a transport plan, I think it was the 2019 flight policy. As we've just seen before, from a storyteller, boy. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, the fourth key objective of the policy is to reduce the environmental impact of flights and flying - related drivers, provide energy exchange for transport through technological development, and contribute to the development of needed infrastructures. I also think this will significantly change public transportation in the country, I talked about a transport revolution, and that will be the rest of what we are experiencing in this month, the Scottish route, or what is called a air bridge in a public transport tunnel. It has been very successful until then, and the initial reactions have been very good. If you start using electricity, you may be able to reduce your domestic pay prices by 50%, and you are talking about maintenance of air traffic can decrease by 70-80% so that you can see for a new time in connection with it. This is so exciting. I didn't mean to go on a lot of talk here. What you have been focusing on in these issues during the past years and years in the discussion is presented in the report. It's very good, very pointed. I just wanted to come up here and thank you. Environmental and transport committees and committees there, why. General councilmen, for bringing in this document. Hopefully, the growth of its greatest and fastest will begin to grow, and in a few years we will see the energy exchange in domestic flights. It's right to take back what I came up with, the importance of maintaining the airport system of our country and considering that we're going into a completely modified technology that's going to completely change things. Consider the future of this major and important means of transportation, whether in Reykjavík, or in other airports, to think about it in the big context. I'm sure this will be one of the biggest issues in the development of our community and the maintenance and support of our country in the years to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u53	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. Environmental and transport committees for very good matters. It's fine that it shows up, and there's a great need for energy change. There are many things to rejoice about and the good report, and many things have been done well. I wanted to come in on a few things, but maybe first, when you look ahead to work on climate change and the like, it's clear that we have to reduce carbon emissions considerably. All flights worldwide are combined with slightly less than 2% of the total release of mankind at present. In comparison, the steel media has approximately 8%. So it can be said that while flying may not necessarily be the place that should be focusing on energy change and reduction in emissions, flying is something that people look at a little bit much, perhaps because it is something that the public has more power than steelmakers in the world and we see it every day too. I just want to encourage people not to forget all the big mails in this, too. According to this, there is a lot going on around the world about flying energy exchanges. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson went over. For example, there is a source of information. Projects such as those held by the Slovenian company Pipistrel, a microsurgeon, have actually been set up to set up a cooled-up electrical jet for exercise flights. The Alpha Electraro company's aircraft is not very long, lasts for a couple of hours, but exercise is very good, and you can build a lot of experience and you can do a lot of things. Electricization may be the most obvious way to go. I was very happy to hear it. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson named a airship. It's nice to think so wide in this context because we couldn't just electric jets, but we could build electrically polluted airships, where the upper level is covered by the sunpane and the engines are electric. They would be slower than modern jets, yet it is desirable to look at them. There is also reason to examine the interaction of a hovered flying machine, as viewed around World War II, and an amazing number of other ways. Hv. paritaprevir Njáll Friðbertsson also mentioned the possibility of inspecting all the remaining airports in the country. In the country, I've counted, around 80 airports and landing sites, I think, the second largest number in the world compared to the appeal number, so within the country, there are lots of opportunities for us to build up. It's all, I think, obvious things. The major factors are how Iceland is going to establish itself in this development. It is not necessarily desirable for us in Iceland to import planes to become part of this revolution. We are to be architects of the future, not victims, and we are not to be consumers when we can be quick - tempered. We have a chance to be a great innovation in this area, including in the energy sources itself, e.g. This includes the work being done at the CCI, where you can create non-carbon fuels and, in fact, you can move it into comparable energy density as you can see in jet fuel using the Fischer-Tropsch pathway or similar chemical processes. The aircraft can also be built on land. In the United States, there is a high proportion of aviation engineers and engineers as well as a great knowledge of the flying industry. Why shouldn't we be exporting planes, perhaps 10 to 50, using machines? We may not compete with Airbus or Boing, but we could compete with some of the factories that produce airplanes used in an island platform or a minor international flight, especially in large and large countries such as Canada. There are potentials I think should be comfortable at home for e.g. the big business talk that was here. We got caught up in looking at the production of the originals, not necessarily an enormous treasure creation with a longer chain of value. The production techniques have become very good. But why are we moving out 100% aluminium if we could e.g. A new 3◯4% of the aluminium produced on this land and exported much more valuable goods? In this context, someone might say: Yes, the mechanics are not needed, but they are clearly missing the aviation engineers. On the other hand, ask: Why do people need to go to Delft or Belfast for such a study? Why can't one do something with Iceland's colleges, HI and HR, both of whom should have everything to wear? Similarly, we know that it is expensive to build some kind of airplane factory. I don't think it should be a political subject. Rather, we'd rather have to build a basis for it by means of good reinforcements, good motivations, and adequate domestic knowledge. But it's expensive to go with that. In Iceland, the largest strength comes from Rannis about 70 million. K. We know that no one's about to build 20 brand-new electrical aircraft to export, even a proletariat, for 70 million. K. This may be an opportunity to look beyond our sponsoric system and say: "How would we have the strengthening system if our goal in Iceland, political, was to create things so that companies of this magnitude could arise? Of course, these are many questions and a wide range of questions. I'm not going to extend this particular thing, but the point I'd like to add to this is that we have to look at it as possible producers, not just as clean consumers. The revolution will come. How much we lead it is the question we need to answer. I'm happy for this great case, and I'm looking forward to accepting it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u54	A respectable president. Because of what? The manager is leaving the hall. I want to start by thanking him for his contribution to the case. But at the end of this discussion, I would like to thank my associates on the Environment and Transport Committee for the solidarity of the matter. I think it is clear to everyone who has considered this now that the opportunities in these areas are high, both in terms of costs and environmental impacts. Then there are those who have spoken before, who are hopefully more opportunities for the use of the flight. We've been especially looking at flights within the country to begin with. This has been called the entire number of national flight sets and landing sites that could potentially be an opportunity to re-use, which have not been in use for a while. These are all factors that are very interesting to see in a practical way. I want to thank you again for my partners on the Environment and Transport Committee and what to do. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, chairman of the Committee. There may be one I'd like to mention specifically. It is Matthías Sveinbjörnsson, chairman of Iceland's Air Affairs Association, who gave us members very detailed information on the subject and has been tireless in identifying the benefits of flying electricalization. I just want to use this opportunity to thank Matthías's son Sveinbjörnsson especially for his input into this place. But I look forward to seeing in what way this situation is coming forward, and I think it's all a great improvement.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u55	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to legalise a change to the General Assembly Convention Act as well as a law on the rights and duties of the employees of the state. As shown in the bill's headline, this focuses on several factors, the work of members of Parliaments, deadlines, monitoring, staff of the Generals and administrations and the elected office managers, i.e. the part involved in the law on rights and duties of the government. Other members of the bill along with me are members of the Parliamentary Committee appointed to represent all council members at the General Assembly. On top of that, however, it was the chairman of the council. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason e.g. The representative of his body of members in the work and in some cases others met on behalf of members of the Parliament rather than members of the United States, but there was the same group who held on to this matter and shared in the transfer of the bill, though, of course, the individual members of the committees separate their right to keep opinions on specific matters when the issue is being made up. This is the 151st case of this legislature, on deck. 790. The bill is, as mentioned above, the product of considerable work at the current Parliamentary Committee, which has worked in recesses during these terms, although quite continuously, has occasionally been made, but in part, for several reasons, it is extended beyond this, and here is a new product of the activities of the previous Senate committees, which worked during the last terms but did not always provide the conclusion that was hoped for or achieved, for various reasons, not being carried on, including unexpected elections to return, etc. Of course, it was guided by the work of the Committee that this bill would strengthen and strengthen the General Assembly, that it provided the basis for more planning the Senate work, to trust careful legal and professional management practices. It involves both the rules of the game and the personnel of our staff, to strengthen the control and maintenance of the Generals and the clear rules where doubt has, though, played a role, e.g. in committee work, and in some cases it is taking place or moving to law and traditions that follow relatively distant events, but trust claims to have improved. Then there are a number of new references to the bill that I will review later. This includes: Note that this suggests that for the first time, an independent and collective chapter will be introduced into the Senate office of the Generals and the administrations and will replace the limited laws that have previously been found on this in the wide distribution of contemportures. The members of the Parliament are made available to require information from the government and to make their handling more clear on committees. It is noted that delay in responding to written requests will be extended from 15 to 25 active days according to the bill. Sadly, it would seem that this would still happen that there would be an even longer delay to answer queries. But the approach here is to clear this period somewhat in the light of experience and in the light of the situation we are facing that in the vast majority of cases the Ministry asks for some time to comment. In turn, it would be determined that sufficient explanations would be provided if this temporary deadline did not exist. It is suggested that the conference schedule should not be put on until two nights after they are submitted and there the view that it is reasonable for members of Congress to have a small vote time to look at them, but according to local regulations the president, as it is well known, to put the request on the schedule when the next meeting is due. It is also suggested, when a request for a report is made, when nine members or more members request a report of a minister - according to current Congress, such a report should be submitted within ten weeks, but there is no clear possibility that such a report will be obtained. True, it is not suggested that this time limit be changed, but it is permitted to set aside time in the request itself. It depends on the events of the reporting workers'obligation to evaluate the scope of the project they are asking for. In order to run fast over this, Mr. President, as this happens in the bill, there are several points at the beginning of the process that will improve under the Commission, which can be ordered immediately after the full request and on the basis of law, but that will not be imposed solely on the premise that a formal letter board is a kink. Two. is a new statement that puts in that option, or the possibility of saying goodbye to the president of the age, the oldest in line at a meeting, to a meeting committee, if abnormal, that the president might be lost or that he might have to depart, and not available as vice president to fill the gap. In the 3rd. It is clear to the Parliament's annual summer permits between July and August 10, but made the defender explain, of course, it is unchanged according to the interpretation that this should, of course, only the General Assembly had previously been delayed by Congress resolution, i.e. summer permits will not begin if the Council continues to work. Section 4. ... is 1 1. reviewed and turned to the advice of the General Director of Staff and the role and duties of the office manager, as well as to include a paragraph on the staff and duties of the one that is very similar to what is currently required in the Board of Directors of Staff, that employees should be able to do their job professionally, of course, provide correct information and advice based on evidence, facts and best available assessments, to pay the streets that members of Congress can do their job well. Other than that, the office or staff may not be addressed until then in this new independent chapter in the back of the council I mentioned earlier. It is suggested, for example, that members of the panels are permitted to switch between members of the body. In addition to current sources, for example, that a panel can announce and move its members to members of the Parliament without calling for a vote, members of Congress, who, after having involved in an election alliance, at the beginning of Congress, have formed an alliance on the division of members of the Parliament, move between themselves if this makes it easier, and then is to increase the scope of members of Congress, who are involved in situations that may arise during the season of election. It is better to consult the European Commission's consultation with the State Department and to state that such consultations are normally carried out ahead of time. Although this may be normal, the law states that if impossible, it is not considered to be a violation of this law. It is important to stress that the regular summer off of the council does not affect and in no way imposes the role of the head of the state of state nor does it feel that the general monitoring and maintenance role in general, however, can be mentioned, if there is much need, maintain a meeting even if there is a summer break. Today, there are a number of actual regulations being made in several places to report to foreign and international ministers, but these reports have now become more than ever before. Explains more fully the requirements for choosing a new Chairman or a backup for the season and exactly how it will be completed. It is suggested that the meetings of fixed committees in general will be set up, if it is necessary to resolve a case or file a case for release at a meeting, so that the quality of the officiating work of the Committee is increased in this respect. However, the right of the members of the committee to suggest that a case be handled and that the chairman of the committee, or the member of the hearing, be consulted by the committee, is obligated to include a large proportion of all members of the committee in paying attention to the case. On the other hand, if a proposal to complete a discussion and to provide it with either the president or the chairman, it is the traditional release of the Senate committee, which makes it more part of a conclusion - making meeting that is possible. If a committee's opinion is taken in advance, it is clear that they should be briefly aware of what they are doing, and that adds to the transparency. It is concluded that the possibility of induction by the rules based on EU types may be non-contracted in a non-contracted way, e.g. directly with a law bill, but that possibility has been tested in a rare way. There is a clearer law on votes and the possibility of a president to reduce votes when he has reason to believe that everyone is in one matter and that votes will fall out the same way through the vote, i.e. when there is no conflict, or if there is no division. There is no reason to spend more time on a vote in cases where this is appropriate and the vote is endless repetition of the same thing. Undeserved stands the right of the senators to make a vote, to make each provision, each motion, and one suggestion, or even a half sentence under a vote, if that is the case. Here is one more factor associated with votes or the field, and there is no need to look for variations because of the changes made by members of Congress at 2 and 3. On budgets and funds, i.e. that during the discussion a change of motion may be made without the need for special approval. In turn, the caution is that such suggestions will not be elected until the night's end. Then I come to the office of Allallis and the office manager, which is a new chapter. I should maybe mention it first, if I hadn't taken special care of that, that in 23rd par. The bill is an important law in which the surveillance role of the Generals is also being carried out by the government's so - called independent bodies. This has been seen and seen, but it is true that it is clearly stated in the council. Then it's a new Wall. a section that would be in conferences with these changes in the FBI office of Generals and management, which would be there in five new articles. Because all of these provisions are added to one chapter, there are in several places a bill is found. That, in turn, is a provision that goes from there to this new chapter. First of all, it refers to the recruitment of the office manager and recruitment board and to the decision that the salary and the remuneration of the General President of the United States will be entirely in the hands of the Generals. However, the conclusion was that this would become part of the law on the rights and duties of the workers of the State when the Court of the State was laid down, obviously not at home and would not be compatible with the sovereignty of the General Assembly, but would ultimately apply exactly the exact same thing to the general office manager, this highest official, that the General Assembly determined it to be elected as the General Accountant and the General Agent of the II Parliament. It is tried to draw out more clearly the manner in which a work exists between the President of the Generals and the office manager, including a new reference that the president of the General Assembly gives a letter to the office manager. It also makes clear that the manager is in charge of decision-making decisions on the rights and duties of employees under the terms of collective agreements and other regulations that explain the role and importance of the office manager's work are here. The songs about employees that I previously had given are also a great improvement in my view. It recommends the advice-or-treating personnel of the office, which shall be in their jobs and in accordance with their roles and tasks, providing sound information and advice, as stated earlier, based on best available data, facts, and professional assessments. It is important to review this important factor that focuses on the staff of the Generals and their immense role in helping to contribute to the success of a difficult and effective legislation and otherwise to the members of the Parliament's responsibilities. It is, in my opinion, a long timely change to put together in one place and in one chapter the requirements of the office. This is already the way it is in the council or the procedures of some of our neighbors. Finally, there are some rules that are moving to this place that have to do with things like information code. In this chapter of the Parliament, the current requirement would be that the General Commission submit to information laws in a way that has already been legalized, as well as to the library, the General archives, and the duties of the materials that would precisely be measured at one place or another. Mr. President. I'm not gonna have this any further. The bill, in itself, speaks for itself, and its detailed report makes very clear to the regulations presented here, and the legal explanation in my opinion very difficult, as much work has been put into the process of living in such a way. For example, a very detailed consideration of Article 23. ... whichexactstothecontinent of the Council's surveillance. Of course, here is primarily what we can call technical refinement, legalization of various novelties and appeals to modern times and the traditions of this world. After this council, two basic newscasts have been transferred to the U.S. Senate. Since the first was a telecommunication and has already been legalized, the work is now under clear legal authority in the local Parliament. The second issue has to do with a large review of the terms of equality and the administrations of equality at the highest level. In fact, most of the laws have been made by the prime minister during the autumn Summit. Thus, a small bill delivered by the Presidency Committee was associated with guidelines in terms of the fact that the General Assembly, according to the proportion of the above allowed, takes into account gender criteria when it chooses for administrations, committees, and there is a distinction between committees within the council and non-contracted administrations and non-contracted measures, in which there is a gender ratio for the General Assembly to work out. There's been a few hours in the General and Education Committee, and the President's expectations are that they'll get over it sooner than later. In any case, it is good to know that when this case goes to the Commission and the surveillance committee, these regulations will either already be in the Senate and in their place, or they will be seen before this bill is fully paid. I believe, a respectable president, that with this review, as stated earlier, a long way of action - many of these have been discussed in the past Council Committee and my predecessors as President of the General Assembly - we would have reached a pretty good country by a technical update in terms of technical and rationality. Of course, the big things that naturally hang, the rules of speaking class, and other factors that make a real difference in the matter of Congress have not been mixed with the big things that naturally hang on. It was my long intention to test this project to see if there was a willingness among the leaders here at the council to consider this at the end of the season. It has often been concluded that men in such changes, of course, are more delicate and sensitive because of the balance here between most and smaller sections and individual categories, may be e.g. The greatest success in dealing with such things at the end of an elected period, and even in considering that such values are in value at the beginning of a new one for reasons that may not have to be explained to experienced politicians, it may be more open to reflect on changes in the rules before they know the exact role they play when living with them. They will have their own time at all times. Nevertheless, I believe it is right to inform me that I have planned to call members of the Parliament and/or the Council Committee together again sometime during the months and review the situation on that matter. I propose that, after this discussion, the case will be carried out to the board of administration and monitoring committee. It is a very minor matter to me whether this election period will result in a decommissionation in that sense or it will quickly grow into value against the activities of the elected period or to wait for a new one. The important thing is that I think it's a good and needed change.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u56	A respectable president. Like a respectable president and a w... 2.m. That's the north side. "Stone mask J. Sigfússon, went over earlier, "the bill is primarily technical and does not address large political opinions on how the Senate should function and the council itself. This in itself is a prerequisite for us to complete this time, but I agree with it by means of a respectable president and wily. A senator that I hope that we will succeed in making some progress in continuing our conversation about how we need and how we want to change the mood. I'm on this case, including those with importers in it. This is because I believe the case is prepared for further discussion on the Board of Directors and Control. I expect the opinion from there and some adjustment, and that's just the normal process here in the high General, of course, for a body of Congress, like any other law. I came up here to point out a void in the community discussion when it comes to how Iceland is being controlled, on what basis and what the basic principles of politics are. You see, there are two important matters, one that has been discussed in the community, one that has almost not been discussed. The first is a constitution where it is laid on how things are; simple things such as the presence of the Allied and the authority of the legislature, what a foundation. The talk is loud about important changes in the constitution, of course in accordance with the administrative bill in 2012. The second almost no discussion in the community is the General Assembly, and it should not surprise us. They are rather dry reading and boring in popular language, and there is no reason to keep them different. They are designed to be in accordance with clear rules of action, so we do not have to carve out the rules, of course, just as we call for the way they are being treated and properly, and of course the conclusions that come out of the squares that are defined there. It so happens that in Congress there are a number of things I'd like to mean that will have a major impact on how well the World Council is able to serve its clients. It's like they're all about the Generals, they're something that only the senators have to think about, and that's why I'd like to protest. It's about how the Council works for its clients in the community. There are things that may be organizational in nature that people do not burn and do not attend a protest meeting to fight for, do not write long passionately with romantic ideals and a beautiful vision of the future, but rather something like whether meetings are open or closed or how the rest of the narrative is, in fact, more clearly defined in the rules of the prime committee, in case of that, and similar. However, it also includes regulations, such as those found in the Parliament. how they may speak, how long they should speak, and what right they have to speak here, how votes are handled, and so on. This has a profound effect on the way the General manages to work for his clients. One of the things I believe that no sitting council can be blamed in itself than is, I think, become rather famous, is that the General is much more organized than people assume. This is often what surprises new members, i.e. how difficult it is to determine what is simply on the program. Now I am determined to make a very clear distinction between the two matters, the members of Congress itself, and the staff of the Generals. I've never met anyone as professional as anyone who's found among the staff of the Generals, just so I say so. To say, I don't feel comfortable discussing it very much here in a pita, but I'll leave it to this show, but I want to keep it. When it comes to what we're doing, what subjects we put on schedule, how we discuss them, how we divide and discuss what will be planned, what will be mentioned, what issues will be considered, and so on, the lack of organization is at an amazing level. I think all new senators will be surprised when they come in here. Sometimes I joke about it to my friends on a Sunday and ask them: "Do you know what we're discussing on the World Congress on Wednesday? My friend says, "No, what? I'll say, neither do I. I may know it's politics, some kind of politics. Then I can go and see if there's something in the arts and try to figure out if some minister wanted something to do, if he's there or what. The thing is, I don't know, a respectable president, and nobody knows that but maybe one employee in this house and then a possibly president himself. But it is not necessarily obvious on Sunday what will be on the Wednesday program, just for example. As I said before, I don't want to blame anyone sitting there with private members, not exactly. However, I think this situation is a result of the fact that over the years the interests of this building had a lot to say about what evolution becomes, how it turns out, who matters, and who doesn't matter. It's inevitable. But I don't think it's gonna change who's in power in this regard. I think this is just the nature of the agency. This is a war zone, this is where we come together to settle differences. We didn't come here together to work together. We are not at the council to calm everyone in the same direction. On the contrary, a respectable president, for we live in a society where people do not drive in the same direction. That fact may be settled by two means, one is war, and the other is democracy. We choose democracy, and that is the role of the Council. People should not be surprised that we do not calm in the same direction, nor should we be surprised at how offended they are when traditions and traditions develop in the light of the interests of those around us. are the most important interests found in Icelandic society, economics as well as others. Then there is the question of how we would like to have the General Assembly so that we will succeed in serving our clients in providing the issue I mentioned and is inevitably part of the democracy. There are a number of things that are produced regularly. It's, for example. Family members, something that seems unconcerned to the public, but I allow myself to take into account how it affects the public that the General is a family-friendly workplace for members of Congress. This is because people from generals come from the common population, some are rich, others are not, some are from this sector, others are from others, but we are people whose friends have friends, whose parents have children, have some kind of career, interests, and the like. I know that nobody cares if the senators have to give up part of their personal freedom, privacy and time to do the Senate work well, and that's good and blessed, I'm not calling for sympathy. But I want, when I meet someone in a town I think has great opinions, that have every opportunity to be a great senator, can tell them that they can. There are just a curious number of situations in which people who could become great senators, and I would like to see for themselves and would like to have a choice, they can't because they have a child or because they have to care for someone close or something like that. The requirement for family and private life for members of Congress is more or less that they can temporarily give up much of it, anyway, if they are going to do well. That requirement is too high, perhaps not for the members of the council sitting here, but for the people on the land and in the community who would volunteer if it wasn't so. I realize completely that the nature of the job is so that it will never be married to a family, but it can always be arranged as family, it can be made more accessible to the common people. That's what they're doing, for example. With the short - term work week that the General is involved in, it is exciting to see how this will turn out. But I mention this case because while the conversation seems self-involved and is somehow about us here at the council, it is much more about the nation that these institutions and servants and the people might be in this room, but is not because of the circumstances that would eventually make it impossible for them to work. During the little time that I have left behind in this talk, I need to discuss only what has been long bitten at the General Assembly and at the norm, which is the session. We have all heard a foul language, which is in effect malicious about a lengthy conversation that someone may not be inclined to listen to and feel is unnecessary. According to that definition, the entire speech of some members of Congress is a code of debates in others'opinion and is in good stead. The reason why a filibuster is used and has been used is because when we go into elections and get results where maybe two or three groups get 60% votes, they get 100% of the power. In view of the greater part, this balance of power and the memory of even the 40% voter's commission or so, give it to us, is more or less powerless, i.e. if you are not using any technology or tricks such as a filamentist or deliberate delay by other means. The way to cope is to control the parts, to give them more power. In Denmark for instance, a third of the Parliament can provide national votes on matters approved by the Danish Parliament. This has once been used, three cases have reminded me, and since then it has never been used. The difference is that only the presence of this tool can change how the greater part works in a way that serves the public. It's not about the senators themselves, and it's not about how we want things to be, it's about how Congress itself works for the benefit of the public. There are many more things that I would like to discuss with a body of Congress, as this talk may be very early. But I came up mostly to call attention to the fact that it is not only a constitution, since we find the principles, which defines how we manage to serve the interests of our clients, but also the laws of Congress. Now we're in technical adjustments and, in turn, changing to our tradition, and all that, as a respectable president went well over earlier. But we must not forget the next step. I trust a respectable president will not forget it at all, but it's working out how we change the seminar so that our work here will change. It's not automatically some mutiny or drying something completely off the table. There are so many changes we could make, but, unfortunately, it's not interesting either because people think things are fine the way they are, or because they don't realize that this is important in the context I've mentioned. I'm gonna do it, Mr. Honorable President. I have had the privilege of receiving an answer from a respectable president, and I look forward to their association. [[Up front.]] I am glad, though, that we have been able to land this case because it is now. We will see how it comes from a committee to a final payment. The purpose of this talk was to call attention to the importance of Congress in connection with the interests of the citizens.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u57	Mr. President. I feel right and obliged to react a little bit. A senator certainly had more discussions on the subject in general, but that is well discussed in the seminary. First of all, I agree that the making of Congress is a very important law. There's nothing wrong with listing them so quickly from the Constitution itself and next to elections and such. This is an important basic law that establishes the procedure for the Congress itself here at the General Assembly. Therefore, the Constitution also supports a body of Congress, which recommends the legal enunciation of the procedure at the council, that it should be legalized by the General Assembly. Second of all, because of what. A senator refers to the Constitution, and I call attention to the bill at the highest level. Prime Minister, who is expected to be on the schedule tomorrow. There's a very interesting chapter, a reexamination of II. section of the Constitution, of the communication between president and executives, and of the interested people of the General's position, I urge them to read carefully what the Council is about. You see, it is more than you could quickly expect. In this regard, I intend to consider the authorship of the Generals'self - control, and I intend to make a study of it in a talk on that subject. Third, I'd like to maintain a few defenses for our efforts during this terms in an effort to increase the awareness of jobs. A number of measures have been taken. This is in context of what is bad. A senator said that there was uncertainty or unforeseenity here. First, we have put considerable effort into improving the communications and information flow between the Council and the Generality, such as regular meeting of prime ministers with members of the Parliament and the Committee to Presidents, with the Government Constitution as a real document, etc. Second, we now roll ahead of ourselves in a regular three - week schedule for the work, for the next three weeks. Third, the presidents of Parliaments are usually ordered that the next meeting on Friday be held on Monday afternoon and as long as the week goes by. Many of these things have been done in an effort to increase only the sense of responsibility, and I hope so. members of Congress or at least The presidents of a council can confirm. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u58	A respectable president. I am very glad that this is mentioned by a dignified president as something to boast about because it is very important. And it's true what the president says there's been a lot of work that has been done to make things worse. What I would maybe criticize is that I feel short - I know this must offend people who have been here for a very long time, and I'm just saying I'm sorry - that it's a big idea when it comes to the tragedy. I realize that it is a real challenge to plan to change the way Generalism works, not just because the work is already very stable, but because such changes are also taking place in the conflicting environment that the Council is by nature. I totally respect that it's difficult. But even though I can thank you for the fact that this is certainly more reliable -- counted in days or days or that something is decided for a weekend once decided just on Monday itself, it reminds me that this is the way it was here during the last season - and it's right for a respectable president that it's getting better, I just see that it could be so much better if we thought it would, if we were to make it so. I wondered how practical it sounds for people who have been here for a long time to predict that on a certain day after three or four months there will be an issue on the program. My experience here at the Council tells me that it's, uh, fraught with reality. But the feeling in society is that it is possible. I think getting to that place is a hell of a job. It would have to, for example. First, the session will settle this, just for example, and so on. I thank you and accept the effort spoken of by a respectable president. [[The president calls.]] Everything he says is true. I want to think further and bigger and more. I think we can do so much if we just let it go and we don't get caught in what it's been through. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u59	Mr. President. I totally agree with what. A senator says that it is important for us to think deeply. It's particularly good that we think big and talk about it, me and him. A senator, for I understand that neither of us will be looking for a reelection so that we won't be harmed if things still go wrong during the next term. Of course, we both know this, and we all know that it will be late to organize the activities of a living synagogue, a political synagogue consisting of many classes and different persons, into the skinholes of traditional material production, which I don't think should be a goal. Then we could go too far in that direction and bark what we also need to be part of the energy we have at the council or part of the ability to cope with situations and to be a living gatherer. But, of course, it would be possible to take a giant step in making a significant increase in appreciation if a general estimate and agreement were to be made for a time that would be moderate in the discussion of matters, if the general work programmes of the regular committees were to be somewhat successful, if the general Constitution of the Government held to a precise case at the scheduled time, etc. There is a lot to do so that we can organize our work here better than we should always be trying and doing our best. I loved it. A senator mentioned the effort we are going to take now in February and March, to change only the shape of the Senate week in hopes that it will help in these matters. I just think it's important for the General to deal with, after an incident, some small experiment of that kind. It will not change anything if we are afraid to try and dare not go up on our bicycle tracks in these areas. Let us believe that it is, in the right direction, and that I feel that it is doing despite everything, with exceptions that can now be counted on the fingers of one hand. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] For a few years, the work has gone quite organized and well for itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u60	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. The next question, as the president makes it clear, is that in order to increase the quality of this situation, we need to deal with how we can arrange a talk period. That means some agreements or some clear rules about it. That's a big job. What I wanted to point out, however, is that in order to deal with it, there is another problem that needs to be solved, which is the balance of power that comes out of mathematics behind how the cause is arranged. For example, the 1st Senator is a district member of the Independence Party. Although the Independence Party itself does not have a 100% vote, it is always the highest when we, as they say, come down some other list. There, mathematics causes a power harmony or a conflict of power that did not represent priorities. This is also reflected in the fact that 60% more part of the council has 100% power. It's always the same thing that makes the decisions. Compare this with an imaginary example in which 60% of the Parliament would take 60% decisions, while the other 40% of the decisions were in the hands of a 40% reduction. It's an imaginary example, and it's designed to shed light on this imbalance in power. It's right here in the house. As a result, the lesser part has only bitter and wicked weapons, such as a filancy in severe cases. It is the weapon that the smaller part in general is so concerned about, in fact, those less than others as far as I can see, because there is nothing else to replace. To solve the problem of the organization, we need to resolve the lesson. To resolve the hour of speech, we must deal with the resulting conflict of power. This is a little what I want to point out in this context. The project is huge and complex, and I do not minimize the work of a respectable president or of others who have been involved in the positive changes made. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But I feel that we have to keep this up in order to cope more and more with the problems in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u61	Mr. President. I'm going to put my words together in a whole different way. It so happens that when this bill was won, I participated in the Senate Committee. I state that of course, we agreed on most things and all the people who show up here, but about a few things, we didn't come together. They were removed, so this bill is done in as much solid a solidarity as possible, but of course they are aware that some will comment on it on the committee, and I expect the committee to take the bill to a counter-establishment. Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon noted that things with conflict, especially during the middle term, e.g. For members of Congress, it would not be a time to make rules or to make them more specific. That is understandable, perhaps waiting for a later time, and that may well be the case. In this bill, what was achieved in the vast majority of the world's population. In fact, what I was going to talk about is completely different, and I'm saying that there's nothing really typical of the bill. What I'm going to talk about, we can call being legal. There may be a better word for it, but it is that all things must be carefully bound by law. It identifies some of the articles here that humans endeavor to bind everything very accurately in the law. The extreme accuracy is characteristic of today's law, and especially in the past few years, where every incident that comes into mind in the text of the law is tried to establish an event of some kind that is extremely difficult and almost impossible. Yet, this is what humans seek to do. It bothers me. I have seen many basics with such lyrics that are very accurate and that result from the incomprehensible and difficult to understand, many times and times. The text will be very long, individual regulations will be very long, and there are fine examples of this, recent, very long lyrics. This describes the perfectionism of the Lawgiver, which, in my opinion, is completely mistaken. Mr. President. It also means putting in laws that are obvious, intended to tie up any knots, to bind down things that cause misunderstandings, and even later conflicts. When those devices are in place, which are very common, Mr. President, the law becomes silent, inexplicable, and difficult to understand. They serve in many ways in the long run. They will be causes of conflict. The purpose is to make things more organized. Often, this is not possible when it comes to being guided, when planning things to the full is not achieved. There are always new opinions and even more difficult things. It's the way men follow their tails in the legal process. I have been a Spokesman to have the lyrics clearly and counterwords and regulations short and cutting. I've been irritated by what a song has become, a long, hard - to - understand text. Of course, I believe the legislature authority should be the key to keeping the lyrics clear, short, and counterword. That's my part of this discussion because sometimes it happened to the Senate committee that I made comments on this very point. I can give you one example of this bill, Mr. President. It's 19, sir. It says, by permission of the president: The main policies should include no other regulations except those that result from the process and should be detailed in a report on the type of the bill to be introduced. What is the purpose of this? We can see that, that's obvious. Of course, when implementing EEA rules, something more should be introduced only when specifically stated. That's obvious. This is an example of something that is obvious. It is this well - known gold coated, where officials sneak in or take advantage of the opportunity to access some of their concerns or of something that interests them to enter the law. Then they'll use this opportunity when the EEA types arrive and are introduced to get them in there. I'm not gonna say it's evil intentions, but it's an example of something obvious. Of course it's obvious. It's supposed to be this way. They are to be introduced, but if there is something more involved than they are, they should, of course, say so. This is one example, not necessarily the best, and this law merely describes good intentions. It won't go any further than that. Many regulations in this bill are just the best, and, of course, I support this bill, end of the shipping, with the warnings I have mentioned, both on the committee and before. I hope there's good work to be done on the committee ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u62	Mr. President. That in itself is interesting reflections. A senator was involved in what to call it, law thinking, punyness, or some precision in lyrics. Of course, I am satisfied that the lyrics of the song are a quick and clear text as possible. Thus, it is possible to wonder about the law code on the activities of the General Assembly. Then it is to think that for a long time it has been that part of the rules here is based on customs and traditions and in the manual The Honorable Senator, a guidebook for the new senators, it is well outlined. It is still true that there are many things that are kept in place without a law command. However, the second must be kept in mind that in the last 12 mouse 14 years, we have seen an enormously rapid renewal in the General Assembly. We've started here a season since the election, with only a quite large part of the U.S. Senate a new one. That's my opinion, and at least I have some perspective on this, that the wishes for greater clarity were linked to it, and that's understandable. They would like to have settled down as they take their first steps here in the Senate or the commission and have been called upon to make rules of play clear. Some of the things being done here are that way, e.g. to have as clear a set of rules as possible about events that can arise in the commission work as well as how to settle matters, books, or a meeting of committees, etc. About the other one as a dog. A senator mentioned, about 19. See, then I think it's very important. Here's the Council to send a clear message to the Executive Director on the issues it presents to the council for its preparation, and on grounds. Here, we have had dissatisfaction that there were sometimes blurred whether more was found in the bill than would be necessary for the induction, and whether it was more than a minimum set of rules. [[The president calls.]] This is a very clear directive to the Commission that this will be prepared by the Council of the United States.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u63	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon for answer. I made it up in my speech, I don't think it went wrong, that I don't use this law as an example of this. There's just a really big increase in this in law, very much. I could find a more specific example of this, recent, from this council. I mean, it's a very complicated, very long, very difficult, lawual text, set out clearly with the intention of trying to pry and block for all possible ways in which the lyrics could be understood in some way that the text could otherwise be understood. But that often makes the message blurred. About 19. ... firsttowhat. A senator mentioned it as just a random example, completely random, from this text, then, of course, it's a good message, and it's an excellent paragraph, and there's good intentions. Of course, this is not to be done by law. This is just the obvious, that the EEA directive we're implementing is either to be clean and bright, it's stated, and if anything is added, it's to appear in the bill, by the induction. Of course. This is an example of the obvious. But I can accept it by reason of reason. A senator says that this is a clear message, and this is the best case. But this should be obvious, and of course it is obvious and should be obvious to all.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u64	Mr. President. This would be a worthy subject to discuss and have actually been done a little, e.g. On the day of the law, when legal preparations were made, one was the main subject two, three years ago. At that time, much of the subject was very interesting about the format of laws and their text. I agree with what. A senator's view of the fact that you have doubts about a section of the law has a strong inclination toward the great outlines of a law text that you have doubts about. On the other hand, let us remember that it has also been an indignities, growing inexorably, to accept too much expedient for the Commission to set matters down by law. Somewhere there's the balance. I have sometimes mentioned in this matter of the laws of the old lakes good since 1927, if I recall correctly, which is one of the beautiful phrases of Icelandic law, this principle of the law that reads: Period. That's all there is to it. This, of course, is a wonderful text, a knop, and a good one, and the better one can say more that way. But there is probably no simple, completely unscrupulous presentation and formula in this. I also feel that sometimes it's possible for people to come into the legal text of things that are technical and that are more relevant to the Regulation. I sometimes believe that it is in everyone's best interest not to drown in some complex technical text, but to be the bottom line of a professional body of regulations. Of course, the line of law needs to be clear. Only back to 19. I think it's very important, I've had experience with it, and I remember the discussions about it here, and dissatisfaction with it on chapters, when the introduction issues have not been clearly established, not that there is always a prohibition that some other independent subject floats along. However, if anything is more involved than what is needed for induction, it must be crystal clear. Similarly, since a person has started out in such a way as to introduce the first and second energy package in this context, he or she may have had to deal directly with the results. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u65	The President would like to point out that the water law has come from 1923.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u66	Mr. President. I thank you again for the answer. I was just going to mention that the lakes were from 1923 and No. 20, if I remember correctly, I'm not quite sure. But that was a very good idea. A senator is referring to this law of the lakes. Although they have been long since then, I believe that today's lyrics are too much nonsense and unnecessaryly long. Most people, perhaps not members of Congress and lawyers, are very busy with bills, but such ordinary people are very difficult to read in order to find out. So I think this is a worthwhile subject for thought and discussion. I agree with the challenge that this may be a subject we should include on a so-called law day, not in relation to this bill, for I stated that this might not be a clear example, but there are examples from this text where men are trying to put clothes under all the drops they see, which I consider to be in many respects just unnecessary. In time, the Germans tried to create laws that would deal with all possible cases in human society, and there were laws of great interest, normalness. I think we should keep in mind that human society will not be the market or that it will be framed into law lyrics in all respects.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u67	A respectable president. I guess I'll start with the gold sentence saying, "I'm not going to extend this discussion any further. But I am, of course, by coming up here. I'd like to say that I welcome the donation of this bill and that it's normal to think that our Congress is being reviewed regularly. Based on the discussion that may have been a bit wide and wide, on the council as a workplace, on the things here very well done, and on other things we could definitely improve, I'd like to say that I think we've had quite a success in the last semester, just by adding to our regretfulness. I believe that the changes now being made in experimental design for these organizations are for improvement, and I'm excited to see its results. However, there is one thing that I have regularly pointed to in this discourse, which is the length of a meeting or the length of a discourse. Of course, such changes are not addressed. We have made some changes, however, in which the president no longer allows a reply to members of his team unless it is quite clear that there is a real answer, something that was necessary to make changes to my knowledge. I believe that this is the only way we're getting closer to this is by the U.S.A. that it's unusual for members of Congress to get up on the platform and give long speeches. And I'm just gonna let myself say it, a respectable president, a long and boring speeches. At any rate, it is my opinion that long speeches are usually rather boring. Of course, when it comes to making up the budget and the spokesmen, or those measuring for committees, they have a double period of time, an hour, that is just an overwhelming length of speeches and length of days under which they serve. We know that although it is such in most countries that freedom of speech can't be interrupted, and you're not talking about it here, there's still a procedure or a practice at our neighboring councils that take some action. There is more confidence in what subjects are on the program and who will be involved in the discussion. But, of course, it's complicated, and I realize that there are pros and cons on various organizations. I fully understand the views presented here regarding the position of those in the lesser part and the importance of controlling them and that the lesser part has something else to do than take long speeches and stop the natural development of Congress. What I'm trying to do here is that although it's not about this time working with a talk period, I feel that it's a matter we need to talk about and that we need to stay awake. I will also allow myself to point out, however, that the mood is often a nice frame. We have the opportunity to negotiate a discussion, for instance, a little by negotiating the discussion when ministers order for a report, that each class should decide for many minutes, or that many speakers should be determined. I think the beauty in it is a presumption, that we will know how long it will take to discuss the subject. But I think the discussion often gets duller. That's why I often think that it's better that we stick to the seminars, and people rather try to have their speeches shorter and more specific, and we're also more diligent in answering each other and having this conversation that can sometimes work so well in this room and can often lead us a little further at the speech meeting that this hall is supposed to be also supposed to be. And then I'm just going to figure out that I think it's important to sort out a little bit of this thing with the council administrations around the council, handle the parts for the staff and other things. Then you can think about the protocols, since they were mentioned. There may be a very specific discussion that will be taken into account when we need it. I have previously declared that the arrangement we live in today is not good enough, and I haven't seen a perfect way to get out of it. To say that I am delighted that the bill has been passed and that we are encouraged to continue to discuss how we sometimes used our practice here, and we are guided by the effectiveness of these conferences, and we hear the actual viewpoints and exchanges of those who are elected to sit in this hall rather than a few who speak for a long time and often just sit a little behind in such discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u68	A respectable president. There are some things in this talk that I can agree with, but I have to come up here because of it. A senator is a member of the Independence Party, pointing out that the way to frame up the lesson is to meet the loss of power from the lesser part of the present. It is the root, that I know it is undisputed that it is the root. I've never heard any other explanation for that, but exactly that. I can stand here crying out in a pita like Pirati in my late 2013-2016 or from 2017 to today, but I can't change it because I'm not in more part. If a change in how the smaller item can be used more effectively, more sophisticated and more complex than a language - oriented device, it must be done by a greater proportion. No one else does. I have to say, as a matter of fact, as a matter of fact, it's basically just a matter of debate. The senator is, I can say the most if not entirely, you always have this one device to be listened to. And then the voice is always out of the greater part because this device needs to be disposed of. The principle must come from the greater part of the matter of exercising power over the smaller parts. It's the entrance to getting some reins on the discussion, not just during this terms, but especially during these terms, I have to say. I have nothing to argue with myself in that moment. A senator said and has nothing in himself to ask, but he wishes it from the bottom of his heart to its bottom. A senator conveys these messages to members of his body so that the first steps can be taken to make this possible. This is really possible, but it has to be serious and it needs to start with this place.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u69	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. As I said before, I realize that it's all about how to wield my part in some other way. I think that at some point, many - even most of them - are members of the General Assembly - have been involved in some form of filament. This has exactly been the reason why it has been difficult for them to negotiate with members of Congress to restrict the freedom of speech, i.e. to go against it with the talk time. What I was trying to do in my speech is that even if I understand it correctly, in our neighbors, that while there are no rigid rules, people don't speak for more than seven minutes or more than 15 minutes or something like that. Even if we did not reach that far, we might still have a chance. I can share interest with what. A senator assumes that we will have real success when it comes to the issue that the lesser part has a measure of power here, other than the language. Then I wonder, too, that we are not always talking about language, but we often have a lot of big speeches. I'm not saying I don't want to hear what's going on. Senators on the subject, I'm just saying that in our modern world, I think, more clearly if we were often faster and sharper, perhaps more people would come into the discussion and would comment on certain issues instead of long and much speeches from perhaps few members of the council. It's quite interesting in the subject of looking at the speakers and speakers and I admit that I'm one of those who speak the most of my classes, but there's only a small percentage of those who speak the most. In fact, I can also, so I put my glasses on, wondering what a huge difference there is between men and women in this council hall. There is a striking difference and a question of why it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u70	A respectable president. I've noticed this pattern, too, with the sexes, i.e. for those who speak most. I just agree with everything. A senator said, "Don't argue." I might add, though, that I believe that the need for the General for constant discussion is related to what is in my opinion a little deep in our culture, and that is to listen badly and seldom. I think there's a lot of better relationships, smaller magazines, fewer repetitions, fewer careers, and the like if people had to be listening to them and had to feel that the word would not always have to be taken over as soon as possible, and they didn't always have to tear it off other people to get there. I've had experience living in Finland, where it's kind of the opposite. I lived there for a year, and I don't think I've ever had one person interrupt me. So when I arrived in Iceland, I was going to be a role model, never interrupting. The result was very simple, I never found out. And that's how I sometimes feel when, in another way, it's in the high Council when it comes to talking, you know somehow that there's not a lot to tell, and then there's some cycle in which you try to make up for it by talking more, and there's nothing more to listen to it. And then it's just what it looks like now. I don't know a solution, a respectable president, as well as no further questions to ask. Senator on this. But I have to agree with what. A senator and hope that there's a way of handling--no, a respectable president, I wasn't a doll in Finland, I can't say that. [[A doll in Finland?]] Other than that, I celebrate the discussion, and I hope we can get somewhere further, also cultural, not just legally so quickly. A senator mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u71	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. I think the solution is to break this cycle because it's bad. If people think that they have to come up here more often and talk longer to share their views, I think there's a misunderstanding, I think the viewpoints might be even better expressed by shorter and more quick speeches, and that there was a greater interest in the Senate and what is going on here in this language room. Some people think I'm terribly embarrassed when I talk about this as boring speeches, and I just want to have fun at the Generals like this is some club club. A respectable president. Of course, I'm not talking about it, but it's not that even though we're dealing with and differing views and viewpoints, it doesn't have to be boring for us at work. The way I see it, we're just the kin to spread them. I think we're talking a little bit about what might go beyond the law, our Senate. This is our culture. How do we want to have that conversation, with those elected by the public? How do we feel that it is normal for us to have it? It's unnatural that only a few people always stand here and always talk the longest, while others are hardly participating in the conversation. Maybe that's what I'm trying to say here, I think we could get some results if we were to break this cycle.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u72	A respectable president. I think it's a fun discussion that's taking place right now. I was on the Parliamentary Committee that discussed the matter presented here, and we are discussing it. Truly, these are mainly fineslash, but new things too, and as noted by the prominent speaker of the case, there are many things being sharpened. And then the new, perhaps, that is, to further the office in a decisive way, which, of course, is to be done. There are several things that matter to me and have shown us in the situation that need to be able to handle, for many reasons, including what appears in Article 9. for example, the use of telecommunications, e.g. if people are weathered in their homes, especially the people of the country. That's exactly what happened, like what happened. A senator who spoke before me there are changes in the arrangement of the Parliament during the two months we are testing now, according to a work programme. On Mondays, there are committees who may be telecommunications, and people may be able to leave home later than they have been, those who have a long way to go. Also, there are practitioners that I think are important to me because they talked about being here and other changes in the long run. 20th degree. is being authorized to reduce the number of votes, that they can be partially united. This is important, for they are often quite complex and long, and sometimes they can be cut down. In par. 24th. I'm getting a little sharpened by their reporting and processing so that the council can monitor the activities of the European Commission, and I feel that this is a better way of putting an eye on that subject. So it is with a report that we have talked about many times. These are requested reports, and the program is often included late at night so that members of the Parliament have failed to realize that there is a report to be prepared and voted for at first meeting and that they have not been able to study it. I think it's good to be able to meditate on something that's being asked. It may even be possible to request changes if people want to do so or just to take a stand on whether they are in the picture or not. It has been said that all reports go through virtually without a discussion. I remember one case during this terms, maybe two, when there was a slight situation that led to a delayed report, i.e. to take it on. It's good to give room for it. And while we may feel that we have to wait a long time to get answers out of question, I think, as stated in 28 C.E. g., that it's nice to try to move these things into the direction they are and have been practitioned for a while. The class in the living room is the one discussed here, the time for speaking. It seems to me that neither now nor before can we put our arms around it. There's been a bit since the speech session was changed and I'm not necessarily sure that this change was of the good, at least From the way this has changed here at the council. I don't think the change was considered in the way it's been changed. There have been some comments, lengthy talks, and rather boring speeches. I'm one of them for sure, I've ever spoken here the most, and I'm sure it's very boring many times. We may be inclined to do so, and I am as guilty as many others, to read the committee's opinion rather than refer to it, to have short, quick explanations of what is involved, and then to point out just that the document exists on the council website, and people can study it better. This is one of the things that could certainly be done to shorten a talk period. Of course, as we have been told, so is tradition to gather a talk period, this battle for queen and king every year, who gets to the platform. This is one of the things that are different with us, but perhaps they are in the Norwegian Parliaments we have considered. There are minority governments that the Iceland has not, I don't know if I'm supposed to say, if you want to try or play, at least we haven't been able to deal with it, so some time, I think. It is also part of the work environment. I remember that when we were discussing these matters on the committee and were wondering what could be done to change the subject of certain issues at the council, including the committee. jointly estimated how each case should require long - term attention at the council. There is another practice. There is a way that is worthy to consider. It is difficult to make negotiations at the beginning of each assembly when it is not necessarily a matter of time for all to arrive at the council. This is the scheduled time recommended by the Council for each assembly to start, and it is assumed that the matter should be slowly resolved every year. It does not always work out, and it may be difficult to negotiate in advance, even on the legal record or something. Of course, that does not depend on the nature of the case. But I think we need to deal with this, and we also have to deal with how we want to change the lesson. I believe we should try it and take effect in a new term. People don't know if they're in more part or less after an election, and that's why I think it's important to take such a conversation, just as you say, 15 minutes in election so that no one is speaking directly as a minor or a member of the U.S. Marshal. We've got a lot of them at least. Try both. Of course, at any given time, the government's opposition must always have a way out to stop a matter. I think we're clear. But language is not the best experience, so it needs to be found another way out of it. A respectable president. You see, I didn't mean to give a long, boring talk, but I wanted to come into it just because it really is a challenge. Just the challenge of setting up this audition for a two-month adjustment in the affairs of the council was a difficult birth. We are not very successful in getting together for changes because we have different approaches, which can help us to understand. Therefore, I certainly hope that this will be a suggestion for what should come at the council and that it will be more flexible. I think they're more flexible. Then, too, it's like a dog. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir pointed out that there may also be others who will come and participate in the discussion. There are far too few members of the council who participate in discussions, in the subjects on the program. Then I'm not talking about the council or anything like that. I'm talking about it when we're talking about something like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u73	There's been quite a rise in the proverbial list, and it seems to be going into the language file.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u74	Mr. President. It's been a really good discussion, I think. I'd like to start by thanking the executive of this case for his suggestion and explanation. I'm one of the bill's carriers and I support it. However, the discussion has developed, so perhaps the smallest time to discuss such changes has been made materially. I hope this is just a sign that members of the committee have managed to talk in an average where everyone was reasonably happy. Even though it's all improved, it's not a big change, it's a big change, but I don't want to belittle because we're still attacking them. The discussion has added to the question of whether it would be possible to do better and what would be needed to do so. I just wanted to get involved in that discussion because I think it's a very important subject for all of us to try to figure out how we can do our work here at the General, I'm going to allow me to say to the modern outlook, and I'm also going to say, in the direction that the council works effectively. I think there's a lot of bed for it, and without it affecting the political work or the fact that the council is doing a job in order to be wasted. I'd like to say that over a year ago, before we knew about the crown virus, we had been doing things both in the council and in many parts of the community, which we would never have thought would have been impossible and would have felt it. Since then, it has been discovered that the world is spinning and, in some respects, it's just going to be all right. I think that can be true of the council but, of course, it is very important that they are in good focus. Then I think that it is often very good to start off with the idea that we were starting a council and trying to make it work, so that time would be good, that time would be good, that time would be good, that we worked together on matters and developments, about how the committee was working, how much time we planned for each case, etc., but not to start from the bottom of trying to look at exactly what is before and try to fix it. I think it's very important. I have deep conviction that it is absolutely possible to express all the views that must be expressed in the work of the Generals in a much more efficient and more dramatic way than we do right now. Of course, we need to unite in order to want to do so and stop thinking - and now, of course, as many have pointed out here, perhaps the best time is always right when elections come, for then they do not know which side they are. I have not met any senator who in itself is pleased with the arrangement of a talk period, that it is possible to talk for 24 hours together in order to force some particular solution, preferably to take the subject off course. Everyone agrees that this arrangement does not bring us honor. Then, in times of trial and effort, discussing how to change these issues will always be the first thing to do. In the backside, people always think, " I think it would be really good to be able to take this counsel into consideration under certain circumstances. ' I think this way of thinking is something that we have to try to leave behind and try to think it differently. It has also been suggested here in talks that this is about the balance of power and what opportunity politicians, the lesser part, have to influence matters. Here, much of the majority and puzzles of the administrations of the day have been resorted to inquisitive measures to delay progress. And everyone always knows how it ends, they always have to make a deal in the end. It will start a certain game every time, where one another is accused of indiscriminateness and the use of unscrupulous fellows, etc. But it always ends somehow, and then the next time the Senate has to retire, it goes on. We must get out of this, and we must do it by installing some tool that gives the smaller part some resources in order to be effective, and as soon as more part of each time acknowledges that the smaller parts should be allowed some space. Of course it is, and there's no way that when there's more part in the council and the government, that's what controls more. I'm not a spokesman for changing the terms of Congress so that there has to be an agreement all over everything and that any government opposition at any given time should be able to manipulate the decisions of the government or the majority of the council's will. No, of course not. We have the arrangement that the greater part is in charge, but we also know that it can be very bad if the greater part, I don't want to use it, but I do not use it in a way that is very unattainable and ignores the viewpoints of others. Of course, I'm just talking in general, I'm not talking about the governments that are now sitting around rather than anyone else and everything like what the future sees. I think there's a chance of changing this. All views can be expressed. There is a better way to plan your time. It is possible to decide in advance, of course, with an agreement, how the talk period should be, such as. to this bill we have now, nothing has been said about it and no one has said anything about how long this bill should be spoken. We could, therefore, record talking here for hours more, for many days, if left for that matter. But extending the discussion is all they can do. If it had been premeditated that it would be quite enough for the leading speaker to talk for 15 minutes to review the main points, then each speaker would be five minutes to talk, and the overall talk time would be time and 15 minutes, something like that, then I think we would be just as good at 1st. discuss the matter after such treatment. We won't. We rarely do so. But I think going this way would be a great improvement. I think I can quite declare it, at least On behalf of my party, that we are more than ready to take up serious conversation about these matters, to change this. I think it's necessary for us to do that for so many things. I think, as they say, everything you need is what it takes. You see, I think most of us want to change this. We all want to change this. We all see that this isn't looking good enough. This can be done much better, both for the council's work and just for the citizens of this country, that they can better figure out exactly what is going on here and what the key points are about. It seems that while people talk about things for days or more or more hours, they become somewhat numb in their ability to keep a focus on what they think. Sometimes you have the impression that we are talking more for the Senate than for the people. I think it's kind of going to have to turn the other way around. I think we need to be on such a council that the citizens can follow along and realize what's going on, but not that they're speaking for the Senate. Although it is a pleasure to have many words in the news, this may not be the main challenge. To get out of this, I think we have the sight and the opportunity to make adjustments. I think we all want to. We just need to get our position out of the way, in many ways, of the old times. Yet I will cease to say, so that they don't misunderstand me, that it is a natural way from the fact that it is all in cold water. In spite of everything, the Senate has done much serious work. That's right. I just think it's possible to do so much better for us at the council, both members of the council, and members of the Senate, as well as for those we're working on, while making laws for this country. I think that would do better. I think we should, for example. more is going to increase the political conversation, the spontaneous conversation here in the conference hall, increasing the fact that ministers represent answers, that it is much shorter and more fraughty. We are to include the committees in even more conversation, as well as a conversation on how the committees expect to be discussed in the conference hall. As we all know, the work is being done on the committees, and I think it is very important if the committees can make more sense to suggest how the treatment of the matter is being handled at a Senate Hall after adjustments in proposals and committees and the like have been developed. I think there's a lot of opportunities, and we should just try and get the hell out of it. I don't believe anything but we can change this, and I think we have to change this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u75	V.E.G. President. In many ways this discussion has been interesting and interesting, but I find it a small witness to what we really rarely discuss about the activities of the council, the organization of activity, etc. And then it has a set of entertainment values that are devoted to the natural status of humans at any given time, whether they belong to a government or to a government position, that people come here and be troubled over long speaking times, as if they were just a bright virgin and clean and have never participated in a filamentary or extended conversation in part. But this, as I say, has a lot of fun. There's a lot of good stuff on the bill, for example. One thing I've done here only, is that the Senate's surveillance role is to be reassigned to the Commission. So the person standing here has been doing quite a bit of a rough job, the excuse, Mr. President, in the middle of a few conflicts, with the Commission's authority on taking away information that concerns the public. And, to state, the president of the Senate has taken part of the initiative to provide such information. However, it has taken several years to obtain information on the general public, while the members of the Ministers have rebuked them like dogs on redness, if I may say so, Mr. President, and even have received a report from the Directorate of the Generals that they have violated a law on Congress and a law responsible to bring an answer to requests on important matters. That's one thing I only wanted to do. But then there is another reason why there has been talk of long public speaking times, etc. Yeah, that's right, we live in the habit, I don't want to call it tradition. We have the habit that much of our natural ability is controlled by the natural journey we are on, and we cannot cope with it. One thing is, for example. which marks the work here because there will be talk of disorganization at the General Assembly. I admit, Mr. President, that I find it boring when Congress officials speak down the work they're doing here in some ways, that I feel unfashionable and wrong. Perhaps the beginning is that the organization is not at the best, i.e. that the Ministry and individual Ministers present themselves late. It's been improved, though, but it needs to be planned even more. There are two days a year so called duedays, and that's why the Hall of Congress will be, say twice in winter, a little like the tax attorney's paper at den the last day before tax returns. It doesn't have to be like that, Mr. President. If this were more organized in the fall of the year and even in the first few weeks of a new year, there would not be Congress work that would allow men to stay overnight and on days. Only with this one thing, I think there's a considerable improvement in jobs. Second, the Constitution of the government at any given time, and the sound, I believe, in fact, that it is also one custom that has been adopted by men, or bad habits, to pick up tens of the Parliaments that are set on the Constitution. I think everyone realizes that, and so is the Ministers, that this is not going to be caught. But perhaps this is to create a contract because, as we have seen, two more times a year, people sit down trying to negotiate their Senate work before Christmas and us. I say again, it doesn't have to be this way either. For over a year we've been living under very special circumstances, and I have to commend the current government opposition once again for showing responsibility when there is much effort and not delaying matters that the representatives of the government stand have in themselves claimed, knowing and even knowing that were not at the best, yet not tamed them, but pointing them out that they could be better and better prepared. And many of these have occurred during the day. However, there has been no attempt at the council that people are getting in the way of matters that are urgent about the situation we live in. I think that men can quite respect the fact that the government side, almost as one person, I think, worked in this way. But when we have this custom, which I say again, that more part of the council is going through quite hard moments, then there's only one way for those in my section, and that's to take on a lot of debates that are sometimes called a filamentist. But then I'm going to say another: We also have examples of a case, very recently even, since that discussion has improved the subject, i.e. When negotiations have been made to resolve matters in a certain way, making certain changes, these matters have improved. Then I'll have to come to that, I think it was my most excellent friend Ögmundur Jónasson, ex-whisper. A senator and minister, who was one of the greatest sharpest speakers for years, he said, someday, if I remember correctly, I hope I'm not wrong about him, that in this hall, there shouldn't be any harmony, there should be a conflict here. Because we're dealing with matters, and we look at them from a different perspective. We have naturally had these differing views chosen. If we didn't keep them up after we got here, we would in itself be failing what we had put up with when we wanted to get in here, so, of course, it's a battle point. But it is also necessary that these conflicts, and they survive the longest, have a beginning in here, and they end up in here. So I'll witness to another fine senator, the current president of the council, why. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, I remember as much as he ever told me when I was a young man, an inexperienced senator, that if men were unable to leave in here what was going to happen here, the Allied would be an unbearable job. That's absolutely right. It's possible, Mr. President, and now I'm not joining those who speak the council, I don't want to, and there's no reason, not any, but I still feel that that there is a scar on it--now I haven't had a very long Senate experience, I haven't been here for 37 years, I've just been here for seven years, I think--I may have thought that this was a little leaning on as far as it goes, i.e. that men have not been able to take conflict from here and take them outside the very unfortunate hall, and of course we should strive to remain calm about it. Then there is another possibility, even though I don't feel that it's foreign here or that there's been some personal conflict, that man is a personal conflict between members of the council. I haven't felt it's increased, not at all. As I say, I don't want to agree with those who speak the council down and what's going on here. On the other hand, this is another matter, for in a fine talk earlier, the question was answered. paritaprevir Valdimarsson Steindorddursson that the public needed to know what we were doing here. That's absolutely right. It is up to the Council itself to introduce to the people how the work is done. The senators have said, as it was signed in a magazine the other day, that when people fall in, they find it a little difficult to get into the way they do things, much less the civilian population that either looks at us live or not. I'll have to, for example. To admit that the announcement of what happens from day to day has often been surprising to me, since it seems that this is the case mainly when you get upset with one another and let your party rage, but what you do is not being done well. There's no news if it's all green as usual. It's not a news story, but it's news when people stand here and have to stand here and talk a lot about something, then that's news. What some call a filamentist and others to be talking about, I recall a recent one discussing a pack of three energy. News of the media discussion was mainly the number of talks each member had given and how long they had been or how long the discussion had been, but nothing was presented, what was being discussed, and why it was. It was as if no one made the slightest attempt to reflect on it. As I said at the outset, I feel that the bill and its content are involved, and now, that we speak too little about the work of the council, and should take up a discussion about them more often and even a special discussion that would be time-rate because, despite the fact that this is a product that everyone's having any part in, I do expect, who sat on a Senate committee, that will of course be involved, and I think it is necessary. It's not just a matter, it's the General Assembly, it's about the frame we're working on, and I think you're just supposed to be doing well. And I tell them again that I often find cases that are neglected, sometimes underthinked in part, and then the natural committees come to grips with it. Of course, a discussion about that matter also needs to be discussed in an effort to improve it, and it works. At this point, I challenge all of us to take up a thorough discussion of the organization of Congress, perhaps giving us time to do so in 2nd. we may be able to negotiate the situation in which there will be more time for a talk. [[Up front.]] But there is a real need for those who rely on us and listen to us to know what the foxes are doing, what these changes are going to be, what they should return, etc. It is our duty to explain this to the people because they cannot figure it out themselves, by themselves, sitting at home. I encourage all of us to give serious consideration to the matter in 2 Corinthians. and the committee will probably review it and even make adjustments or improvements and/or offer a good contribution.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u76	Mr. President. I'd like to take a brief look at this need, good and long-term timely discussion and thank you for the contributions of this bill, which gives us reason to discuss customs and culture and how we work at the council. Of course, this is something that has been discussed at the scene more than once and more than twice as we know, and it is, of course, with respect for the rank and importance of the community we pondered. We often talk about this as the highest language room in the country, and the word is nowhere holy, but right here in this discourse, and we need to be able to express ourselves in an all - out manner. I don't have much history at the council, but I can't say that this arrangement surprised me. Of course, this is one of the interests I'd like to see evolution and change into the council's activities, that we'd learn more about these traditions, how we conduct the discussion. At one point, I gave a brief talk early after I came to the council that there was no great efficiency in the council. The message I received was that using the term "corruption" to be effective in the council because people should not use that kind of language in the Council's symposium or in the council's activities is such an important task that needs so much attention that they cannot use this concept. Likely, the members of most councils have made their comments in this discussion. It's just a pleasure, and we really agree that there's a lot to do here and something to change. It is unique among the Assembly in the Western world to arrange matters in this way. I don't think any council will do this. If you discuss the formation of a conference talk with some Dutch senators at that small assembly, they will be surprised when they hear how we manage it. There is no issue left of a Parliamentary Committee in Greenland without any agreement on how much longer this will take to discuss the matter. We can do the same, and we should try to create a platform in order to discuss this subject. I think now's the right time. But what is needed? Of course, it takes trust. We need to build confidence in each other that this is something we mean, and we know that the lesser part gives evidence that it is the only tool he has against the harder part that wants to drive a case through. Running a case through, what does that mean? This means that the majority want to take advantage of their position in order to obtain legal matters from the council. But is it not also the democratic right to allow the greater part to control matters and establish its course? The lesser part, however, says that this is a matter of choice, and he will not bring his affairs on a schedule once; fine speech will not be discussed. We need to get a little bit out of our way. Of course, a so - called verbal abuse can be a measure of upbuildingness and a deeper discussion of various matters and that when a person discusses detailed details, questions related to or unrelated to the discussion are handled in a more difficult way. But we do know that a filibuster has taken on unfavourable forms and does not have to look far back in time. I think the last spring was crushed here for 24 hours, and it matters. This is important to all members of the council and all the infrastructure of the legislature board. I'm not going to talk about the costs of this, which, of course, we don't have to look in and have nothing to look at too much if there's a meaningful discussion. Otherwise, you're a little bit upset when the discussion comes up with a little guess. I don't want to say anything like this, but it'd be a lot of joy if we could create a place to talk about it and look for security. We can do this on experience, change the arrangement, but we need to limit it. We must agree on what the minority may consider acceptable to be reasonable. Like what? paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son came in is perhaps one of the more parts that should be met by the smaller parts and offer some outstanding invitations in this regard. A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion, and I'd love to make a little progress in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u77	V.E.G. President. In many respects, this has been an informative discussion, not to mention the bill, and I'm not even going to talk about it at all. In other words, I'm going to extend the discussion, in contrast to those who usually come up here, who say they're not going to extend it, but they're gonna talk for so long. But I'm going to extend it. What I really want to say about the matter of Congress in general and only in part is that what really bothers me most is when members of Congress speak down the council and the Senate. I personally find it most disturbing because I love this council very much. I think that's a good job. Many things have improved, the commission is strong, we have come with very powerful staff, helpers who have made the Senate work, and the work for the big senators, much better. I just want to object to what many members of the Parliament say, that everything here is impossible, that the workplace is particularly family, which I also feel is wrong. You see, we can control our time very well as people in a general labour market rarely can. True, there are traditions and customs so that meetings can be held to the longest evening, but it is very seldom a matter for any individual member of the council to be here or to speak on all evenings mentioned. I would say that this flexible time is actually very family life. Of course, stress can be, people know it before, and that's very good. In fact, I find myself much more comfortable working under pressure. But this is very rare, and I don't think it gives me any basis for this deep discussion of how impossible everything is here. There have only been conflicts in the council. Of course, it's a place for the legislature. It'd be better now. But we need to know how to cope. That may be someone's problem. I saw it on some community center or in the media today that someone I don't know about being at a council, that the council is one continuous place of violence, that it's just spiritual violence. I think that's what he's got after some senator, I guess, because he wasn't that man at the council himself. This too is one discussion of how impossible all things are. Of course, we can do better than that, but when men approach the conflict at council as some kind of violence, all of it is impossible, etc., they undermine our fine council. I just want to say one thing: not everything is perfect here. What I feel is the most shocking thing about everything is that people are going on talks, some about almost everything, even without having done a lot of research, feel that it is an obligation to make full use of the entire talk. I don't think that's an advantage for the Senate's appearance. I think we're supposed to be more specific in this conference about what we're talking about, what we're going to talk about, and then we're prepared to be properly prepared if we're going to say something. So I will not make the full use of my public talk and look forward to the final talk. 2.m. That's the north side. , who is the president of the council. I also want to thank him for his work on this bill that I want to state that I think in most ways this is the way to improve. I'm happy with everything, I don't always get all mine, but I feel good if I get something.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u78	A respectable president. All I want to do is respond. paritaprevir Brises Níelsson's Brynjar spoke of senators and even non - senators complaining about violence at the General Assembly or of what has been shown in the discussion of the possibility of this workplace. not the family's best mate during the council. I wanted to ask you what. A senator whether he believes that the creation of senators is possible, e.g. depending on whether they are in a position of government or in a greater part of the things involved here tonight. Or if you're a member of a less-than-important group against bigger ones, you'd be able to look differently. The less members of the Parliament are less difficult and easier to make up the committee. Finally, I'd like to ask you why. A senator would also be able to look at people differently, depending on where they are in life. I have four children, the youngest will be eight this year, and the oldest is 20. It's really now that I think I can do this whole - souled work because they're old now and I have a very strong backland. The children's father is a great father, and I'm very lucky. As far as these things are concerned, I'm lucky. But not everyone is, and it must limit the bioavailability of those who wish to work at this workplace, e.g. where they are in their lives. Or is it? A senator won't agree with me in that?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u79	V.E.G. President. Of course, our experiences in this work differ from those of all others. There are a wide variety of circumstances. I realize there is a difference between living alone and having no children or having 20 children. But there is something we know in advance. Of course, smaller categories are, and all that work is harder. That's why I've put so much emphasis on not spending much time with small parties that I think are a problem for democracy. True, I don't agree with the voters. Of course, small groups of people are going to be far more difficult than I think they have greatly improved. They have had more helpers than their members, so this has only improved. Certainly, I will not belittle our ability to experience things in various ways. It's just that I feel like talking down the council has become something. You're talking about the conflict here just as if it were spiritual violence. I think people are really getting ahead of themselves in all this discussion. Humans may well experience this as total violence, but there is, of course, some modern - day discussion. People talk so much about today. They always think that if they think of any nonsense, it's now. The habit and tradition are good, and I'm sure that we'll agree on that. But I'm notlittleing people's ability to experience things, and we're always trying to do the same. We're always trying to make things better. All I ask is members of Congress, don't be the head of the Council to speak down the legislature. Positive criticism, all right.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u80	President. Thank you. paritaprevir The armoury of the son of Níelsson for this answer. On the foundation, we agree that the Allied is a great work force. I've personally published it in public. I think I said it so that it would be the most fun place in the world. I agree not to speak down Iceland's legislature council. I have to point out one thing, though. Hv. A senator speaks of the nature of the matter as being a place of conflict. I completely agree with that, too. A critical conflict is to take place in the belly of democracy or in the democracies, but it may be primarily that it is a civil conflict, a political conflict, not a bullies and such. And that may be what people are talking about when they are, like a boy. A senator experiences it, speaks down by the Generals. They are speaking down certain behaviors that are not really relevant at any workplace. Then I'd like to point it out. A senator will agree that if we agree that there can be a conflict in politics, why not deal with the issues we are discussing here? This is fine, and the need for discussion and helpful, I think, for all of us here. A general assembly is a fun workplace, but it is true that things can always be changed and changed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u81	V.E.G. President. It doesn't sound like there's a lot of difference between me and what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Sara Elísa Þórðardóttir's daughter. I agree that here at the council we are dealing with ideologies, basicities of society, how we picture the future. It's just very healthy. But because we're talking about experiences, I experience it when you see it as some kind of violence. Of course, big words can fall, I'm not sensitive to that. I like to deal with it. I wouldn't like it if everyone agreed with me here. Then we can talk about a person who could simply get killed from a vice. It wouldn't be a family-friendly workplace either. All better families are under attack. I just challenge us to do better. We can use the language carefully, etc. and we, in general, can do better in our conduct as everyone else does. But this workplace, which I don't want to call the workplace, is a very important phenomenon to me. They have done quite well despite all the struggles and heartaches, and we are to be happy about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u82	Mr. President. It's best I don't say I'm not going to extend this discussion a lot, because there's still no way I'm going to be able to deal with it. But I come first and foremost to thank you for good communication and helpful discussion, even though it has, in some respects, discussed our work in general, and perhaps not much of the details of this bill, which are its antiquation and good information to exchange opinions on the activities of the council and what may be more beneficial in these matters. That's what we've done today in a business discussion, which is an excellent look at the way things are discussed. I think it's very important when we discuss this to bear in mind that the Council has a lot to do with it, since the General is, of course, much more than a lawgiver. This is not just production from the clock. 8◯16 has some material products, laws, important things, of course. The General Assembly is more likely to be the leading cause of political and national debate in the country. This is Iceland's most important platform. It in itself involves power and influence to reach the Council and access to this chair so that something is now mentioned in that relationship, and I'll think about it. paritaprevir Inga Sæland Land that sometimes reminds us of it. When she is standing here speaking with feelings of her heart and concerns, she underscores it. She is using this important discourse as a platform. I don't agree, I don't have a view of those things, but I don't. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, that those in the lesser part of their viewpoints are here powerless, let alone no effect. I've had some experience because from the early 38 years I've been at the General Assembly, I've probably been 26◯27 years in less than the rest of my time, one ten, eleven years, either a minister or a more part of it as the General President. There are so many ways in which others do not merely reach their goal, that the conclusion of the matter becomes materially as alone or as they and a small group around them want. If they view this as a goal because, in the end, the General Assembly is a democracies event. It is by nature that if humans do not agree with each other, the majority of the material outcome will ultimately be the determining factor. But it is also true that it is extremely important to ensure that the position and rights of the smaller part, that he comes to his viewpoint, that he can try to influence the course of things, and that he is listened and all down the street. One tool is the speaker, one instrument of inspired talks, and so sometimes a lengthy one, but my evaluation is that much more suitable for all to have their own impact is to work with a greater deal of agreement in the committees of the council. In my opinion, being a very important target for work in difficult matters, trying and trying to get along. And then it never works just as we know, sometimes it's too far between them, and then it's just a matter of time. It must then be taken that it is the will of Congress, the greater part that will eventually move. I consider one leading role, rather than the most important part of the General President of the United States at any given time, to be determined that the mood of the council is seen and realized, that the outcome is called forth through communication and discussions and all that democracy involves in this respect, but finally it is the will of the Parliament, which will be expressed in each matter. At that time, those in a smaller section, who are in a position of government, also sometimes have a bit of a choice that they feel will bring back and their viewpoints. Is it just here from the chair, to give strong advice on what they think and not to offer any compromises? It is a well - known method, and it can produce its own results. But my experience is that working with eju e.g. The members of Parliamentary Committees and try to get some consideration for their views, some of their emphasis is that through what will be concluded at the council because the other way is usually the result that you, with your viewpoint, are superseded and the votes of others decide. If I should suggest something I thought should pay more attention to and take a closer look, it would be. It would be trying in some way - mainly just by means of the atmosphere and through the process, but after moments, rules there can help - further emphasis on the importance of making an honest attempt to get together before reimburse matters. And this is how I believe in chapters that have had much greater effect than that, if I may say it is related to the matter, a business committee member of a long years or a welfare committee or whatever it was, by being hardworking and trying to reach myself a little toward others, but at the same time affect my viewpoints, rather than necessarily by keeping large talks and though I have often and frequently been a major speaker in this sermon. Hv. paritaprevir Sæmundsson came into something that I also mentioned a little and is quite correct, and I went over it in my opinion: There are so many things I need to come to. If we're talking about making the process more disciplined, more efficient and more aware of this, there are many things to work together and some of these things that the Council does not have one thing in its own hands, such as the court's making matters happen to the Council want to be well prepared and carefully prepared and to come in time, that the Constitution of the Government is expected to be a realistic document, not some list, and not that it stands up, that the matter should be passed to the council at the time that can be expected. That's what matters, for example. issue next round when the Generals and Parliaments themselves shape their work plans. They will soon become more realistic if such discipline is learned. That's where we're moving, there's no doubt. But I'm sure you can do better than that. It may be dangerous to mention the part of the talk, but there have been excellent thoughts about him, and many have mentioned the way that has generally taken place in the many district conventions around us, where it is simply an attempt to make an agreement ahead of time and to plan for a space, or should be sufficient to treat the point of view before the members of the council are paid off. It can be said that in many of the conventions around us, this is the case, usually based on the proposals of the fixed committee for discussion. In this regard, it is important whether the committee made a difference or a difference of opinion. Of course, if opinions vary and there are other viewpoints to be measured, then something longer is needed, obviously, and the committee who has found the matter and knows the different viewpoints is in good position to weigh it. Could anyone attempt to test this arrangement more frequently without anyone selling out rights simply to test it? Could we grasp perhaps more of this aspect of our discussion? That would be very exciting. (b) How can we show that we have limited quality in our time? It is not difficult to get close to it, so we have unlimited time, we don't have it, and all of us understand it. In terms of speech and freedom of speech, here is the Golden Rule: the rightness of others should not be at the expense of the situation. The restricted time of public speaking must not be totally removed from other people's freedom of speech. Then there's no justice in it anymore. That is why, in the end, we are talking about limited benefits that somehow need to be replaced. It is important that it be done in an objective and fair way and that it is in the nature of the issue that a smaller part of the time must be placed in this respect because it is a very important tool in his hands and that no one thinks of anything else but that the right of the lesser part, the opposition of the administration, is being taken into consideration in these matters. In fact, there are in the Senate a number of safety laws that are often overlooked for which smaller parts cannot be rolled, just one, two, three in one or two hours, e.g. magazines that must take place between the two and the third verses. etc. If matters are too late to reach spring, significant deadlines will be needed to make sure that such a case can be run through quickly. And let us not overlook the fact that, despite all of this, there are in the mood many such security laws. You've also been trying to take some steps, we can call it experimenting, to spread a little more power and custody here at the council. It is the most significant change that was introduced in 1991 when the General Assembly was united in one seminar and saw a spirit entered the mood that it was normal for smaller representatives to be in charge of the Synod Committee or International Committees to some extent, in any way, in line with their relative Congress grant. And if we look at Article 14. The law of Congress, the big article on how to choose the committee, is very clear in its spirit. It is the law's binding force to try to negotiate this matter and to show reasonableness and to distribute power and responsibility within certain boundaries. Then there is debate over how they have succeeded, and there is no boundless arrangement, any more than there is an effort in this direction. I view this bill as part of a much larger strategy or project we've been in, and I'd like to sort out attempts to improve the activities of the General Assembly. We've been doing things that way. We have been advancing the committee stage and strengthening it with additional experts. We have vastly improved working conditions for members of the Parliament, increasing the number of experts and their helpers. We're building one piece of an enormously large, important service house, a core hall for the people's work, which is much better working conditions, and we've also been looking at the work environment here, the work environment, and we're working out the results now. Of course, we want to have a good work ethic and a good work ethic. Therefore, I agree with the many unnamed statements here that make them feel bad, accept them, speak the works of the Generals down, or handle them unduly judgmentalally. I readily admit that much can be improved and continued to improve the work but that there is an allegorium, such as I see it, and has generally been, a good work job, and doing good work, and giving the people good jobs, and I believe, for example, that they have good jobs. especially that for a short year, the Council has been very successful in coping with all its projects in the face of a pandemic and in the face of major intervening issues over and over again because of the situation. All of this has been well done by the General. Is it not all right, then, to say it and to be content with what is well done? I think so. But this bill, it will be that laws, which I naturally expect for spring, whenever they want to take it exactly, will cause no turning point. But that, in my opinion, is for a considerable improvement, a number of things in it, helping with many other things we are trying to make this great and good work a little better.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u83	V.E.G. President. I do little by thanking the speakers before me for their talks, but I want to thank you. Senator and President of the Generals. I sense that he, the president and the senator, is interested in it and is very interested in expanding the council's journey and strengthening it in all places. And that should be our whole objective. I'll admit, however, that I'm not easily distracted by a filibuster in some form of language. I haven't quite understood the discussion that this is the only weapon man has to get through. I experience it so that the members of Parliament's council stand for a committee job that is very well versed in matters can do much. That's how I feel about the commission. It comes from a position of government to improve basics, but then you may see here on the front of the same Senate hearing that when a change of motion is completely rejected, you forget that much has been accepted from a government stand before the matter was discussed at the council. There's just one question, is there a problem? A senator agrees with me in that perhaps it is most likely that there is a lack of discipline in the Senate work, discipline in the members of Congress themselves?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u84	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's word. Yes, I hope I can honestly say that I love this institution. I've spent much more than half the days of my life, been here, and now I'm not often what happens, I think, in men. My concern and affection have grown over the years with regard to this institution. I have also experienced so many of the tremendous, almost infinitesimal importance, in a world where democracy is not everywhere strong, fragile, and much shortness of breath. Then we should be grateful that we are so lucky to have a democratic election of Congress, the highest authority in our affairs, and to be careful of it. Whatever it is. A member of the body mentioned the commission was now basically the same as I was saying. I believe that men often ignore the tremendous central part of the Generals operation that is, the part that is involved in the legislature work, the payment and, of course, the investigation and maintenance of the Commission and the building blocks. And man's potential for such influences is great. I have not been a spokesman for opening up a meeting entirely because this also leads to confidentiality. But, of course, I have thought that if the committees were more fully open, there would be much more insight into how much work is being done there, perhaps seeing just another picture of what is being done here. Do I agree that more discipline is lacking? Yes, to a degree, I am. I feel that the council could be a little bit more German in this way so that we could be more ambitious about what we're trying to resolve between here and there, on the Senate Committee, on the Presidency Committee, on the scene with members of Congress, and what we're doing in the public squares here in the hall. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u85	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a synopsis of the change in foreigners to suppress the expenses of the state's budget and to increase effectiveness in the treatment of lawsuits. Artists are down. The members of the Central Party Þorsteinn Gauti Einarsson, Bergþór Ólason, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, Birgir Þórarinsson, Árnadóttir Kolbrömnadóttir, Þólæmundsson, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, and Sigurður Páll Jónsson. The strategy is supported by a variety of sources, including information from the Foreign Institute and political and government policies in the North countries. The Central Party proposal is presented in the light of neighboring society's experience, under the emphasis on recent North American policies. As we shall see, the motion is based on the human spirit. Note that there are no more applications for international protection in the North countries than there are in this country based on an oscillary number. According to the information of the European Environment Agency, there are six times as many protection in Norway and Denmark, three times as in Finland, reaching 50% more than in Sweden. In view of the high cost of these matters, both because of their contributions and the maintenance of the candidates, we can be sure that they have a serious problem. Anxiety also causes more candidates to get a positive result from an application than at any previous year, a total of 528. Therefore, the number of applications and the benefits of the pandemic may be considerable. Although the number of protective applications dropped substantially in recent years, they still number 654 over the past year. That's a lot of people for a small nation. Or it may be said that the pay period is generally short, but the decrease is extremely slow, and the system is still operating for four months, on average, each case. According to the information provided by the National Institutes of Iceland, among the more than 654 candidates, 38 have been identified as from a secure source. Such candidates should be able to return home without delay. The majority of candidates, 331, had already received protection in another country. Should that group also be able to go to that Kingdom quickly rather than stay for months? The proposed proposal is to hide the Minister of Justice to deliver the bill of a change in alien law that aims to suppress the financial expenses of foreigners and to increase efficiency in judicial matters. Emphasis will be made on the goal to determine the time to receive material treatment at 48 hours for the owner's application and the conclusion of a material treatment within six months. The theme motion allows for a significant shortening of pay time in matters pertaining to international protection over existing legislation that responds to applications within up to 18 months. These deadlines may be considered on-treatment. An example of a much longer pay period in such cases shows the inadequacy of the administrative institutions to handle the project. Is it not based on staff but on the conditions it is intended to operate on? Has this resulted in growing financial expenses for the seminary? An open exchange of government funds is not compatible with responsible government control of the government. We cannot maintain a system of welfare, as our ambitions are under the conditions of the jury today, that the border is wide open. In some cases, they may wait for a decision to arrive for years. That's a lot of pressure on people who are looking here. At the same time, this fact promotes unfounded applications. It should be obvious that such applications are targeted toward countries with the highest potential for postponement and delay of payment. As the number of candidates decreased by a quarter between the years, similar percentages of those who received protection were reduced by 445 a year. However, this is a considerable number, and it is uncertain what the trend will be in the next year, since it is reasonable to assume that the Korean epidemic had some of this decrease in candidates. In fact, it is surprising that as many people have applied for it, according to a reduction in the number of flights and tourism, and the fact that the number of applications last year was also higher in other parts of the North countries. Iceland wants to contribute, but it is obvious that Iceland does not have the ability to accept far more applicants for international protection than other northern countries do. This must be taken into account before taking any major substance. Dana's prime minister, Mette Frederiksen, president of the club of the social club, a group of sisters if I'm not mistaken, said on the last day of the council for a vacation, June 22, that no more refugees should be taken than could be adapted to society. She added that those who came to Denmark were to be required of her duties and rights. She said on the occasion that whether people were rooted in Denmark or outside it, it was the equality of men and women, the support of democratic values, and a Danish community that would bring people together in that country. This value is relevant in Iceland. The requirement to support these views in word and deed must be made to those given international protection in this country. On the Web site, January 23, 2000, the Web site. related to Frederiksen's accepting the office of prime minister in the summer of 2019, after the left classes won the election. During the campaign, her party, her socialized and equal groups had adopted the greatest policy of the local people in the languages of the immigrants, in fact, so much that there could be no distinction. In his debate with the sentence of the Danish Assembly on October 6 it was. In many places, the Danish prime minister was involved. Its comments on the affairs of the trustees must bring great attention to the country. She made a mistake in the ancient way of foreigners. The government would continue its stricter course, but more was needed. The European Refugeic System said that it was really a collapse. With the permission of the president, her words were in a casual translation of mine: Be honest, the possibility of a asylum often depend on a fugitive paying off people's smugglers and wanting to risk his life in pre-filled RHIBs. The Mediterranean has become a cemetery. Furthermore, the Danish prime minister, with the permission of a president, said: "No one flees for fun. " As we are about to do, we will react to those who flee through smugglers and the remaining ones who have the greatest need for help. Dana's assistance must be directed toward them. The Norwegian State Convention is dated on January 17, 2019, and taught by Granavden in Norway. It contains a detailed chapter on immigrants'affairs and, especially, some of the matters of the trustees. The synopsis has a Norwegian view, much similar to that of Danish. The subject of the Danish Prime Minister, quoted earlier, gives clear evidence of how the Danians have found themselves in the affairs of the trustees. Furthermore, earlier in the past year, the Swedish prime minister Stefans Löfvens's comments made that an increased crime rate in Sweden could be attributed to the mismanagement of the political policy of foreigners. Here at home, the old goats understood that the welfare system would be broken down if it wasn't built on civil values. The independent group taking this group of litigators seems to submit to groups of colleagues'policy in the affairs of the trustees rather than to ensure a secure border with targeted law enforcement. We must listen and learn from the experiences of neighboring nations and avoid a highly predictable problem. The detailed policy of the Danish team as well as the single - scale presentation of Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen suggests that Danish prowess feel that Denmark is virtually incompetent because of a failure in the course of the past years in the affairs of the trustees. The economist party rejects the course that was previously followed in the seminary. In his quotations about this sect, he said that refugees may put themselves in danger, since people of different sheepfold make a lot of money on the calamity of others. In three recent years, 10,000 children, women, and men were lost or lost in the Mediterranean Sea. This tragedy calls for a righteous peacekeeping system, according to the policy sheet of the peer party. It presents a human - minded viewpoint without the intangibleness that is sometimes within the material. In this light, dancers present their main conference in the media, setting up a price, preferably in cooperation with other European countries, the welcome station for non-European residents. If the hooligans come to dance suspects, send them to the reception station. The Declaration of Danish dancers states that Denmark will accept a certain number of quotas in cooperation with the United Nations Refugee Organization. Thus, many refugees are being helped in Denmark. There are suggestions on cross-border surveillance, changes in the Schengen Convention, and shipments of refugees to their homeland. While the external borders of the European Union are not controlled and there is a risk of wrongdoing, Denmark should maintain border control. The Schengen Convention must be reformed so that individual EU Member States decide to control their own borders. By doing so, Dan is counseling who is coming into the country. This is fundamental to the security of the Danish people. The Norwegian government has similar views, as stated earlier, as shown in its government covenant. According to a dance band, many of the people who came to Denmark and Europe in recent years are not refugees but are traveling in search of a better life. If it is approved that these will be saved in Denmark, many will look there. It's not about dancing society. The situation is that of society itself, the welfare system, and the lot of people in pay. Together, Mr President: Undiscovered, we follow a policy in the affairs of the trustees from which the North have disappeared and the prime minister of Danmer's describes as a mistake. The policy that others have deposed is unacceptable to the Central Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u86	A respectable president. I have to admit that I'm actually at the point where I'm in support of this synonym, but I may not exactly have the same reason. A senator, a member of the motion. The suggestion, however, means that a period of decision on whether you will receive material treatment for you will be up to a maximum of 48 hours. Was then referring to a rule to be held in Norway. What may not be involved is that the 48-hour rule in Norway evidently involves unfounded applications, e.g. Applications from so-called secure states, such as Albania. The language treatment period in Iceland is very low. He's a couple of days -- I'm told he might have a couple of weeks of contagion, something like that, that's a guess -- so that's not the problem. The problem of going back during this brief period of time is to find out if the matter is to be taken into account for the treatment of the matter, needs data from foreign states according to the Dublin Protocol up to three months in order to provide it. As a result, during the 48 hours, you cannot collect the information needed to send the person back. In other words, after that time the matter must be addressed as a physical treatment. In other words, I can see that if this rule were passed here that within 48 hours the decision was made to treat material things, all of them would be given material treatment. If we're willing to be supportive of our system enough to do so, it's as if it's a very careful idea for my hat. I don't think it's meant to be. Transporters of the Parliament smell the proposal. But I wanted to point it out. A senator's job is to ask him, perhaps just to give him the introduction to it, to see how long it would take to make such a decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u87	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I made it clear in my language that this 48-hour reference rule is about determining if an application is given a physical treatment. It is then assumed that the treatment is completed within six months, while the current law appears to be within 18 months. We can't afford this, Mr. President. And it's also natural to come here, as in the past year, between 600 and 700 people, and they come here on their own initiative. It's the open bar I could do in my speech, that expenses fall on a trust fund, not because the Council decided, not because the Minister of finance decided, not because any legal agency in Iceland decided, but because there are people out in the world who decide to try to make a decision here, like us who have some opinion of these matters, of course, know that we are of many people who have come here. This is the red thread of a course that has occurred in our neighboring countries, i.e. to focus on hostilities in cooperation with the United Nations Refugee Organization and on focusing on helping with those in need in our homes, which can help far more people in this way than it can be to spend on these expenses for those in need, as we still do.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u88	A respectable president. In the following talk, I intend to go a little more into this business with the rest of the rest of my life and the greeting, but I think there's a certain truth in it. A senator says that we can learn a lot from the way we accept the greeting and apply it to other systems. There is support and help in adjusting to the community that is not present in other systems, or at least not very recently. I'm not entirely certain that I've made my question or comment clearly enough, but making a decision as to whether a subject will receive chemotherapy takes more time than 48 hours, not because the legislation in Iceland is the same as it is, or because we don't put enough money into the group, but because it simply takes longer to get relevant data from other countries to make that decision. Sending someone back means that the state that accepts the person has to be approved of that process. It is a process that takes place. And according to the Order of Dublin itself, a state of government has three months to do this, which is considerably more than 48 hours. So, of course, all kinds of things are, for these systems vary in varying amounts from one to the other. More about in my talk afterward. Hv. A senator said we can't afford this. I could reason with what. Councilmen will do that. I'm not saying that I'm talking about the effect of accepting this synonym because of the fact that I just described it as making it, apparently contrary to the will of the movers, to all matters, except for these 38 cases that come from so-called secure states, all the other cases, the 331 as a matter. A senator, including a member of the U.S. Name, if this case were approved, they'd have all the material treatments in Iceland. I can't see that it's the object of a mission. As a result, there is a clear flaw in the case, which may be dealt with by a committee. [[The president calls.]] I don't know exactly what to ask, or how to explain it, a respectable president, but I don't see better than I don't need the proposal to consider how long it takes to get the data needed from foreign countries to make the decision proposed within 48 hours.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u89	Mr. President. I'm not talking about how people do their thing in an office style. I just don't understand how it's going to work out. A senator may claim that, on the other hand, these 38 and 331 would receive material treatment when it comes to talking about people who come from secure states and, on the other hand, people who have already found refuge in another country. I just don't understand how it's going to work out. A senator can claim that. For a word or two. I have not yet come to realize if there is any particular differences between us. I can't go into some kind of job and some office job getting paid for an application. The key point is, we're following a policy still that the North countries have since disappeared, and as the Danish Prime Minister put it in a talk at the Danish Congress, and no doubt on other grounds, Mr. President, it was a mistake. It's a mistake. We cannot overlook the experiences of neighboring nations. We can't continue to send the message that the most practical thing anyone can do for the world in this business is to return to Iceland. It just can't be. We have a welfare system that we have an ambition to defend, at least Some of them, and we can't if there's a wide border here. It's just not possible. The same crown will be destroyed only once.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u90	A respectable president. I sometimes get caught up in this discussion when people start talking about some sort of nonexistent reality and knowing that no one is fighting for. Hv. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson, at the end of his second reply, told me that there could not be an extremely good welfare system and wide - open border. There's not a wide border in Iceland. They're not, and they're nowhere near. It's just really hard to be in Iceland if you don't come from anywhere else than the EEA. It's hard for Americans and Canadians to be in Iceland. The Galopin border - this is just some bullshit and it's not real life today. No one has given a bill to come to an open border. It is this fear - inspiring propaganda that comes from a certain community that confuses the discussion, so we do not come to the conclusion of things we might otherwise agree on. I had to open it because I get so tired of talking about some fantasy in people's homes, imaginations heard in Radio History or similar psychics, from people who can't lift a finger to look at the facts behind what they say. I'm not going to get any further into it, because I'm likely to spend my entire speech talking just about how much nonsense comes out of that direction, nonsense like the one at the end of the talk. Senator. Now the question is, where should we start after this brief introduction? Maybe I'll start by rephrasing what I mentioned in answer to why. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson, that the council error proposal here makes it seem possible, and forgive me if I get technical about this, that all the applications as well as any. The members of Congress believe that this area should not be approved with obvious impossibility. Clearly, an unfounded application is a phenomenon. There are, for example. Applications where people are from a state of state on a list of so-called secure states, e.g. Albania, a state of security. The story behind it is more complicated than I have time to go into it. The seminar in such cases in Iceland is not long. People don't hang around here for months when they have clearly unfounded applications. These applications are done quickly and people are sent out of the country very fast, within the days, even now in the Covid situation, so I don't exactly know what problem. Congress officials believe that they are solving a 48 - hour rule there. The second is that there are people with all kinds of issues, just as varied as there are many. Some of them are coming from some European country, may have applied for them, perhaps only in the middle of the country, but they were taken fingers off at the airport or whatever. Some people have a fugitive's position in that state, but they live in an algrent pool and a miserable situation, e.g. In Italy or in Greece, and there's nothing to come here because it likes to travel, it's coming here to live a decent life. That's why these people come here. This does not mean that the application is clearly unrecognizable, either in the real world or under the law. Rather than being constantly trying to tear it down by cutting down the rights of inmates, I come to my criticism of the matter in a material or more material way. This doesn't seem to get the suggestions completely figured out, and I can totally understand that. It's a complicated group of paintings, full of words you think you understand, but you don't do until it's quite experience. But I can't figure out how. Councilmen intend to establish this 48 hour rule without agreeing on all the material applications for asylum in Iceland, all but clearly unrecognised applications, Albanian languages and such. I don't think that's what it is. Senators are trying to do this. I think they just misunderstood how the system works and nobody blames them for it. It's a crazy system. What's next? Another marsh that is burned up in many parts of society is the swamp that the northern countries are some kind of wastelands. These are still prosperous communities. There is still a welfare system in Norway and Denmark. There are problems that can arise from temporary stress on the others, and these systems and refugee ice are natural consequence of civil war in Syria, including the U.S. and it can arise, and it presents challenges. The solution, however, is not the intention of shutting down more and somehow trying to counter evolution, a respectable president. This does not automatically, but it is possible to build a wall, as some politicians would like to mean, which, fortunately, not many of these countries are surrounded by a rather large border, the Atlantic. But what should we do? You see, I agree with what. Councilmen who make this suggestion and come from this direction, that we are putting all too much money into this system. I agree completely with that. But the solution is not to blow out the booth that eats all that money. It's no use simply letting people in, a respectable president. I wonder how much pressure there is on UTL, the Foreign Institute, today because people from Poland or France are coming here? It's not that much because they're allowed to be here. That is why I feel that such suggestions and the words I heard here and criticized earlier are a metaphor. These costs are always spoken of as reducing the cost, but they always include some small indication of cultural, moral, and so forth, and that we cannot accept all of these and all of them. If the goal is to reduce the cost, we should stop using the rules and walls and walls in an effort to keep people out. And by the way, that's Iceland policy, not open the border. Hv. A senator mentioned earlier that we should learn from the mistakes of others. I agree completely with that. But here comes this strange reality, that the policy was that everything was wide open. No, a respectable president. We should learn from our mistakes, but we are not making mistakes. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson believes they are. And now there is one thing that we should be able to put together to fight for, and that is, when it comes to refugee ice - and it becomes more because of the many climate changes, civil wars, and anything that can happen. There will be more refugee ice and how to cope with it. I agree that when we have a small system or a small community it can't take an infinite number in a short time. It's obvious. A community of 350,000 people may not be able to take over 5 million people here in one day. I completely agree with that. But 500 million people could. Maybe not in a day, but we're not talking about that sort of numbers like that, but there's a difference between how big a pot you put the drop. The European policy was not that it would all be open. It's just wrong. It's just a gnat. Now, more or less, all these countries are trying to take as little as possible, projecting everything on everyone else that created this tension and this pressures on individual systems, such as Denmark, Sweden, and Germany. That pressure would have been quite power to disseminate. The problem is, there was too much listening to members of the council like those who made this suggestion. Too much of a radio, like a radio story. That's the problem. A respectable president. There's something very interesting about the proselytization point. A senator and others from that direction are awestruck by the cryonic system. I find that very interesting because I share that admiration. The fear - inspiring system is working so that the United Nations or its agencies can find people who need to be sheltered and try to puzzle a program so that they can go to a secure state like Iceland. They are welcomed and entered into the community. They feel that shelter. They've been found for that friend, found for the conditions that enable people to adjust to the community. And talking about crime rates and the like, that's how it reduces the crime rate. It is an excommunication and discrimination and hatred that increase the crime rate. It is hard that increases the crime rate, the hopelessness that increases the crime rate. We reduce it by inviting people to a decent place, by providing them with a decent shelter, and by making it possible for them to adapt to Icelandic society rather than simply demand that people be either just like us or somewhere else, always to save money, of course, that noble aim. I don't have time for any more, a respectable president. I've hurt them and, of course, accept them, see if I'm giving another speech. For me, this discussion is just beginning. I wish I could say that I look forward to hearing more talks on this matter, but unfortunately, I fear that they will still be bad here at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u91	Mr. President. It may not be easy to have a word for it. A senator who goes from one to the other, who gives himself the highest knowledge in this category, speaks like the one who has caused and knowledge all, who complains about a talk that is more and less based on policy in Denmark, Norway, and elsewhere in the North countries; references to speeches and references in the states, especially from a series of peers. I named Mette Frederiksen, prime minister of Danmerk, who is the leader of peers and quoted comments as Swedish prime minister Stefan Löfven. It's gonna be a good time. For some reason, a senator seems to have some particular concern that this matter is discussed. Since he has judged the case in advance as impossible, it is only very difficult to discuss this matter in a conversation with a friend. A senator. I discussed in my speech how support for people should be given in the international system that is being maintained by the United Nations, with these so - called sea - power workers - that is, in accordance with what both Danir and the Norwegians place a great deal of emphasis on the documents I quoted - and, on the other hand, helping people around the home or around the home. I have a few questions, but I'm going to finish with one question: What do you think? A senator that we can afford financial resources for the sake of many of the trustees here each year? Based on the 600,700 today, what does he say about 6,000 or 60,000?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u92	A respectable president. The biggest or second - largest problem, or perhaps the second - largest, the problem I see in the world today is that the fear of people is being provoked because of a misinformation about what reality is. Right away. A senator speaks of a Šgalopin border, and a tow - open tap is easy. A senator talking about reality that's not there, which makes people afraid on the wrong grounds. Hv. A senator finally asked what we could do with regard to finance, how many we could take over. It all depends on how we respond to people. This is the part I think it is. A senator may not hear too well. Here comes a person from France. Then she just comes into the country and she's just here, doesn't cost any money, just lives here, buys a job, buys a Cheerios and a snack, and God knows what; is just a person in Icelandic society and a part of the economy. How much does that cost a foreign agency? Something around 0K, I'd guess. I don't know what the administrative cost is around the paperwork about it, but I would guess it in a hurry. To let someone in without doing anything to back him up, outside the desk and the wall and the guards on the wall, which cost a lot of money, is actually the reason for the cost. A senator claims to be trying to lower - that is probably some cost of supporting people into the community we want to do. There's nothing to answer such questions, a respectable president, unless we already decide what we're going to do. The problem with a suggestion like this speech in a direction of reason. A senator's goal is to keep people out. That's not the right goal to save money. The money savings is in my opinion just for perfunctory, excuse for finding some way to keep foreigners out. I even think it's pretty obvious. Hv. A member of the council decided that he had obtained permission from some of the officers in Norway and Denmark. With perfect respect for what's happened. A senator and a nice people, I just don't care. So there is nothing to the effect of this suggestion. It has nothing to do with the way things have worked in Europe. [[The president calls.]] As if in Scandinavia, peers cannot be wrong if they are prime ministers. Is that really the message here? I don't think so. At least I don't believe him.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u93	Mr. President. Hv. A senator can have it that he confirms what I said, that there's really no way to have a conversation with him and how to reason. Hv. A senator makes people feel like hatred. He makes up reasons, such as wanting to create fear or fear, or wanting to cause bad things to happen. I just can't accept some ban on the part of the party at all. A senator about how other people can act. As much as I can live with the fact that it is illegal in some sense to witness here to officials in the North countries. The talk is a fact, and it now stands in Christianity beneath the glacier. It's the bishop who says this to Umbi when he's preparing him for his mission west on Snæfells, below the glacier. I quoted Mette Frederiksen's words in order to draw their conclusions from the words about the change in policy, the reason for the change in policy, and the grammatic evidence behind it. This is perfectly allowed. These comments help me to conclude that learning to listen and to learn from neighboring nations can be learned.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u94	A respectable president. It's typical that if you disagree. A senator or a member of this direction is forbidding some opinions or somehow protesting people's freedom of expression. I think I have proved that there are few more loyal advocates of freedom of expression sitting at the council than the one here who just refers to the Alllis's painting list in support of the speech I've been holding up here. A respectable president. It's that old lung that's always used if someone answers you to the full, that they somehow forbid you to express yourself. It's just bullshit. A lot of nonsense may be a big word in the world. A senator, who's so full of shit when it comes to it. A senator uses his own words, and I'm quoting directly from his speech, like a Šgalopin border It's a quiet, respectable president. There is no polite way to say that. There is something else. A senator says, and that is also nonsense. It's just bullshit, that's all. Hv. A senator may find it impossible to talk to someone who may come into him with such language, but I will continue to do so. A senator knows that. He's very kind to respond to me at any time because of me. It doesn't hurt me at all. But to finish, just a more positive note: Hv. A senator said that we should learn and listen. I agree with you, Mr. Honorable President. It would be good if it were. A senator would listen to the fact that we don't have a wide border, no one's suggested it here. That's a fact. It's not an open branch, neither for funding nor for people into the country. That's a fact. I hope so. A senator learns from this and starts listening, but he also needs to do so. Hv. A senator told me that I was building opinions and hatreds and things like that. A respectable president. I said that hatred, excommunication, and that sort of thing in communities increase crime rates. That's what I said earlier, talking about listening. I strongly assume that we have an opportunity to discuss this further tonight and if not tonight, then I'll be able to finish my case in the light of the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u95	Mr. President. I was in front of a talk given. He was very grateful to the senator for showing us his superior knowledge of this class and his insight into looking into our souls and knowing better why we are offering this proposal. But when he was only present, his speech ran out of sense. A senator fiercely on the ice. The rest of my speech, if I may quote Mikki refur in the animals of the forest: The biggest shit I've ever heard. It was then spoken of as having to put up with big words. But this was the biggest bullshit I've ever heard, and this is the most polite thing I can say about that. For this reason, the senator has a superior knowledge of this legal body to ask him to tell me three things. First of all, there's a why. A senator knows how the percentage of those looking for international protection meets all the conditions of the United Nations refugee Convention? I know why. A senator for how long are those looking for international protection typically in Iceland or on average? I know why. A senator of this number has changed over the last two to three years? Fourth, I know why. A senator how far from finding his way here for international protection until they receive their first interview with the National Institute of Iceland, e.g. The last two years?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u96	A respectable president. I find the interesting approach that is expressed in this counterargument as well as the counterargument. paritaprevir Ólafur the son of Ísleifsson the son of Izz has come up here, and somehow mocks me thinking I know all of this. There's a lot in this suit that I don't know, a respectable president. I don't come up here to ask how much I know. But I know enough to know the consequences of this proposal. I pointed to it. In case of a moment. The members of the Central Party have some feelings of inadequacy about it. They have to deal with someone other than me. I didn't come up here to brag about my knowledge, just to be told. I wouldn't want to review these numbers as a boy. A senator asked for mine. I'd like them in documents and talk about them because of some responsibility, so I feel like they should be given numbers in general. The other is that these numbers have changed very much over the years, gone up and down, and I completely agree. The members of the Central Party that there is a problem in this system, that the cost is too high, and wait too long. I just disagree. A senator on how to solve these problems. I disagree that to reduce the expense of the wall and the guards of the wall, more walls should be built and more guards hired. I disagree with that approach. I think it's a waste when there are other and simpler ways to make this system more efficient. In short, it is to stop automatically viewing the amount of money as "no. " It's the basic judgment error in my opinion that it automatically saves money not to let people into the rocks. Fortunately, we live in a kingdom of justice, which is what we want to have. Even when we send people out of the country, it costs money. It costs money, and it takes cooperation with other countries and such. It's an expense, it's trouble. These costs, e.g. Not in France and Poles and Germans who come to America because we don't treat them like this. If there was one thing I wish we could agree on, it would be to stop looking at it automatically by simply pushing more people away. It's not like that, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u97	Mr. President. I'm not going to go root up sand in the sandbox for what it's worth. A senator. But he can be sure that feelings of inadequacy are one of the things we do not possess. But we believe in reason, and as I said before, she was only a little bit ambiguous in a talk. Senator. He just has to endure the fact that by speaking here as if he had the right to be in debt, it's found. I asked him four questions about this particular subject that we're discussing here and he doesn't answer. Then I'd like to ask. A senator with such general questions: name it. A senator that can be learned from the experience of others? Counts 'em out. A senator that can take the 30 years'experience of our cousins in the Northern countries from the welcome of the trustees and those who seek international protection and learn anything from what they have found in or even failed, according to their own claims, at this time? Now, Mr. President, I don't know if Mette Frederiksen, Prime Minister of Denmark, listens very much to men like me, I actually don't know what kind of men it is. Besides, I don't know if she listens to a radio story, it might well be that she does, I don't know. But one thing I do know, Mette Frederiksen is now and her government is under the command of a social calendar with advertising in foreign leaves outside Denmark, saying, "If you have rights in another country, don't come to Denmark, you'll be turned back." If you do not have the legal status of a fugitive on the United Nations refugee contract, do not come to Denmark, you will be turned back. Is she saving with this? Possibly. Is she saving her money? Possibly. Is she saving herself some other effect? Absolutely. The question, though, is: Is it not wise to learn from what others have done both well and sadly?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u98	A respectable president. My answer is: Yes, of course, we can learn from the experience of others and should do so as best we can. This does not mean that the conclusions made by the middle party are an automatic lesson of the problems and mistakes of others. This does not mean that others are responding to what has gone wrong. The problem there, I think, is the misunderstanding and the incorrectity that the gypsy border is some phenomenon in Iceland or in Denmark or elsewhere. It's not like that. It wasn't like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u99	The Danes are just...
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u100	Some people think that they have learned from that mistake, but sometimes they just learn a wrong lesson and start trying to do more of the same mistakes, that's what's so strange. Now I'm not gonna stand here and pretend that this group is simple because it's not. I can't help pointing to the flaw in the suggestion, but it's not surprising to me. I understand that this is not obvious because it is such a class that it is complex and the system is complex and all that. The problems are complex, and the solutions are complex. When I hear people coming in a pit, they'll blow at me. paritaprevir Ólafur Ice Ísleifsson, with the same speech as I hear on Radio History and comparable media, which, fortunately, are very few people, that there are open borders here, streaming into some superabundant amount of people that we somehow go to the head of having to accept, such as hell. A senator expressed it. I wrote it with me, it was so interesting to me that we can't afford it. Yeah, we can afford this. This does not make sense to the money, I agree entirely with that, but to say somehow that there's some stranger's hole coming here and destroying Icelandic society, because there's a gaping border and an open crevice, there's a saying that is not just a matter of material wrong, it's dangerous, no matter what's in the chest. Congressmen I believe are nothing but good. This is a mistake. It's dangerous, and I mean it's expensive.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u101	V.E.G. President. We will discuss a proposal for an interpretation of the change in alien law to curb expenses and to increase efficiency in the treatment of the language. Listening to the discussion has been very interesting. I'm sure I'll give a lot of talk compared to what you've heard here. To me, the affairs of foreigners that tell how foreigners come to the land are in three ways. There are immigrants in the first place who come here to work, and that is in a special way. We Icelanders have had the privilege of benefiting from the many people who have come here to work and, in fact, saved the fast structure that has been uplifted in society, an increase in employment opportunities, and more valuable creation. Foreigners have played large loads in various sectors, most in fish industry and service, at hotels and in tourism and so forth. I have thought Icelanders were satisfied that their jobs were done on their own, I must say right now. There's a fine salary in the fish industry, if that's what I'm talking about. Second, it is the hostpowerrs who come to the country in a very special way, as the word says, after the greeting system. As prime minister, it is a system that was successfully implemented in 2015 by the government at the time of the reign of Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson Gunug. Third, the issue of the most highly concerned trustees is in connection with this synonym. I'll do one thing in a speech or two. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson earlier. He spoke of allowing people into the country at all costs nothing. I don't quite understand that statement. It costs for people to come into the country. Those who enter the country as refugees do not go directly to work, perhaps in some cases, but in many cases not, and the cost is high. That's the cost side we're talking about. We need to be careful not to go beyond anything else. It is not because of spite or hatred toward foreigners, as you sometimes hear when we are discussing these matters, not at all. And because what's going on with Dana and Sweden has been quoted, I well remember it, I just mentioned it here today, that when I was a young man, we were friends at some point wondering how we should spend the next few months and miss. Then my associates found out that if they went to Denmark, they could register immediately on unemployment records, and then they could only stay on the jam. I was so discouraged in those years that I didn't put up with it, but they went there two or three and had it very good for a few months. In Denmark, only good things were in order to get paid regularly to continue that entertainment. I would like to quote and read from a story that was mentioned earlier, and that is first what Mette Frederiksen, Prime Minister Danmerkur, has said in his own field, in politics there. She says that her goal is that no one apply for international protection in Denmark. This was what Frederiksen said in a discussion at the dance council on Friday. So it is in the January 23, issue of this magazine. After the former chairman of the national dance party, Pia Kjærsgaard had called her back. That's our objective, she said, I can tell you, but I don't make any promises, but it's a goal. It goes on to say that the number of applications for global protection has declined substantially in Denmark during the last few years, but the Danish government has been working to make it more difficult for people to apply to the country and at the same time make the desired destination for people in search of land. Then comes a long text, but the conclusion is that Mette Frederiksen emphasizes the importance of helping people more in their homes. That's exactly what I completely agree with her about. Then there is Stefan Löfven, the prime minister of Sweden, who has repeatedly retraced the link between immigrants and criminal activity of the country. But now he's changed his mind. In a story written on September 12 of that year. says Löfven, when asked why he could not see the relationship between a large number of immigrants in the country and an increased crime rate, had a new tone in the council on Wednesday. Stefan Löfven replied: If the number of immigrants is so great that we cannot adapt them that the community is an increased risk of problems, as we see today. He later repeated that message on television that day. Then he had been asked about the expansion of criminal activity involving immigrants. Then he said: "We have received many immigrants, but their adjustment is that society has failed. If many adults do not have a job, the children will see it and perhaps think that it is normal. And then this interview continues, saying that the children are doing the same things they have been doing. The report goes on to say: "It has not long since been told Mats Löfving Marshal Mat Laffir in a conversation with the Swedish state radio that family gangs were a major problem in the country. Among other things, there were 40 gangs who operate organized crime in that area. I'm not saying we're moving in a gang in this context, but you don't know what people think. From a distance, it's clear how each country is involved in foreign affairs. It's just that way. I find it strange if we're going to maintain a course that both Sweden and Dan have totally turned against, so we've learned from bitter experience not to work out, if we're going to try to follow the path they're getting out of. It is strange to say here in our talk that we have nothing to do with just how other nations behave. I can't see any sense in that. We must want to learn from the experiences of other nations. I don't speak of nations that we compare with and call our cousins and friends like Dani and Sweden.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u102	A respectable president. I will probably not last a session to say everything I would like to say after this talk but why. A senator specifically mentioned my name early in his talk, so I wanted to arrive at a point here. Hv. One senator did not completely understand this point of not allowing people into the country, and he then said that the most important things are not going directly to work, and that is the cost. Honorable President, this is exactly the point. What if I suggested that there was no need for special permission to work as a trustee, apart from the fact that these permits are difficult to obtain, those who are forbidden to work? Then we come here in a pita and say that these people use our welfare system, when we're telling them not to work. This system is amazingly ironic. People who are in the so-called Dublins, or Dyhlians, don't get this permission, can't even apply for them. That's a cost. That's exactly the point, a respectable president. The cost of letting people into the country is not a permanent cost because people can just come in here and participate in the community. This involves working, paying taxes, and increasing demand. That smell is often forgotten during the discussion. Like other human beings, those who seek refugees have to eat, need a roof over their head, their recreation, their education, and their friends. They need transportation, watch, phone, computers, and all kinds of gadgets and things that humans need to enjoy. This leads to increased demand, increasing economy. This factor has always been forgotten. It's just our system, which I haven't heard the media protests yet, which refuse these people to participate in the community rather than promote it. There I think there's a much greater sense of agreement between all members of Congress. But I hope this explains why. A senator what I'm talking about when I say there won't be anything to let people in, even if these obstacles are possible, that's just the exact point of it. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u103	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for the counter-sponsore. The money won't be gathered from the trees, and if the reason is right. A senator is that it doesn't cost anything if we just let the person have a job, but then there's gotta be some job, okay? Senator. It's not that simple, it's just silly to say it like that. There are ways for people who come here to work, as I mentioned at the outset, depending on specific ways. Then there are goings to be number two. This is not the way to get here to work per se. I don't think there's a lot of people coming along that way that goes straight to work and when they don't, it's gonna cost them. It costs food, shelter, and all that goes with it. And to list any such tools and tools that come with the consumer community, of course, it's only right to demand for it to increase, but you have to be able to work for the tools and tools. I've never realized that there's money to be picked off from the trees. To allow people to enter the country, work must exist. It's gonna cost you, though. A senator, to let people into the country that has not yet reached the workforce. That's for damn sure.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u104	A respectable president. They're not at work because we don't allow them to be at work because we specifically forbid them. Yeah, I guess that's the way it is, Mr. Honorable President, it's just the way it is. In case of a moment. A senator thinks it's ridiculous, then he belongs to a member of my team. It's tempting to go into the money on the trees, but then we have to go into the way the money system works, and there's more to talk about. But, hey. A senator said that for people to get a job, work would have to be available. Small context: This is quite some of the applications in their time from Albania, apparently unfounded applications. In Albania, there are nearly 3 million, 2.8 million people. In Europe alone, about 500 million people live 7% of our species is last when I checked, and all those people can move to Iceland today and have it for three hours. All Germans, all Italians, all Spanish, all Portuguese, all Danir, all the Finns can move to Iceland tonight, 500 million people. Then we might ask: Is there enough work to do for these people? I do not recommend such migration in a day, just for simple planning reasons, let alone when it comes to having wood and the ability to receive people. Of course, this has to happen in some context with what we can do. But it is not even an attempt to measure how much it is. It's just that there are too many people coming here and that we don't have the ability to accept it without being on the wrong side or even looking at it. In this debate, people simply give themselves to be a burden on communities. In fact, communities are just people. Economics are nothing but financial relations. Where should work come from? Out of demand. What people? The same people. That's how economy works. It's what it is. A senator said that when the United States began to grow from tens of millions to 300 million, that all the work was vaporized and no more job? No, there will be more employment with more economic activity. Of course, these things need to happen at some reasonable time and in some reasonable amount. You can have some logical conversation about it, but that's not what you're having.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u105	V.E.G. President. I have to say, as mentioned in earlier answers, that I have a little difficulty speaking at the moment. A senator. [[Up front.]] The Senator says it's a load of nonsense to talk about an open restaurant on imports. That's what it says. A senator that may import this number of millions of people tonight within three hours - yes, isn't it open? [[Up front.]] What kind of crack is that? I just can't figure out how to do this. Also, trying to confuse a person by using a form of speech as a matter of course. A senator is very trained, and I've tried not to get excited, that's not my problem. But when we're talking about business and people who come here to work, I already mentioned it, and I'm going to mention it for the third time, that there's a special way that's gone in here. The way of those seeking refuge is not a way that is specially designed for those who are looking for a job. But I can picture myself covering it, and agree entirely with the senator, that the economy is built upon the people; there is no question. But not at three hours, as the senator mentioned earlier, if all Europe were to move to the country in three hours. That's for damn sure. I just don't have enough boots to make sense of this swamp, tops. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u106	A respectable president. I'm gonna stay out of the question later. paritaprevir Because I'm wrong, the Sigurður of Páll's Jónsson John. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson has been reassigned to the rosary, so I'll let him explain the difference between an open tap and an open tap. A respectable president. We'll discuss a proposal for a hearing of a change in alien law to curb expenses and to enhance efficiency in a lawsuit. This may come as a surprise, but I support this suggestion, as very few causes as much unnecessary costs in the Icelandic sanctimonious and application procedures as well as the application procedures. Instead of simply being examined by people's application for protection, they were given protection in this country or referred back to the state, if safe, there are people waiting for months, even years, changes, staring at white walls in government industrial buildings where they are not even authorized to work for themselves while waiting. Of course, that is an undefeated arrangement for all, and it makes no sense only to abandon it. Thus, by the adjustment proposed in the synopsis of this arrangement, the state's budget may save large sums of money on the housing and support of candidates, the pay paid for the processing of the cases, so that the emotional cost of waiting for months may not be considered for months to take an answer to the simple question whether their application will be considered here on land. Because of the rules of justice in the Dublin itself, it would not be possible to determine a decision to dismiss a person from the country with reference within two days, not possible, a respectable president. In fact, it is difficult to make such a decision within three months, in which the responsible state, under the Regulation, has three months to respond to the request made by the Icelandic government, while accepting such a request is essential for sending the candidate back on the basis of the Regulation. So the only way to reach this goal would be to simply make a decision to take everyone's applications for the treatment of the material in the country. While there is much to say about the proposal, there is no other way to support it. With regard to the six monthly material payment, I expect to refer both to administrative levels, i.e. and then at a level of care, if that's what it's gonna be. There I would like to go even further, shorten the deadline even for three months, and after that people would be entitled to a living permit on the basis of humanitarian grounds, the process would not be completed by the government. They could then become local members of society, even go into the workforce and continue to build up their lives. By it, everyone would make a profit, indeed, an Icelandic society. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, my fellow gang member, has mentioned straws such as open taps, and some misunderstandings that appear to take place in this discussion, swamps, and other things that repeat during the discussion when these issues are on the table. But what we cannot afford in this society is an inhuman gill that causes miserable people who desire nothing more than to live their lives with human dignity and some kind of hope for a happy future. It's the only crime of these people; wanting to live in peace in Iceland, as we privileged people here do.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u107	V.E.G. President. Now it is not my intention to make a record of the Council by running into a second chair in a few days, not at all. But I wanted to say a little about this discussion and to explain the purpose of this suggestion to those who do not seem to understand why it is presented. In this discussion, money levels are not important. It may well be, but I still want to remind you that the group of languages we're talking about right now, the reception of the inmates, and the people who are looking for international protection cost 6 billion dollars. Last year, a significant increase was needed from year to year, as well as 400 million. K. an increase in the last budget talk this year. So this is a large amount of money. That is not the main reason, however, for the suggestion to be made. But this may be one of the reasons, for with increasing numbers, the cost increases substantially, and for some reason, the number of people who receive temporary protection in Iceland is considerably higher than in neighboring countries. It's 50% higher than in Denmark, and if I remember it, it's four times that in Sweden compared to the population. Today, we have never spoken differently from the Middle Ages, so we Icelanders are to welcome people who are facing difficulties and who have never spoken differently, so we are to live up to the commitments that we have signed according to international agreements. But the other side of this coin is the one that was very good at speaking. paritaprevir Just before, Sara Elísa Þórðardóttir, that it is inhumane to have people wait here in Iceland, uncertain about their future and position, for months and years. It's inhumane. And it's inhumanity that has come up and been averted in a few cases, when people have been here for years and have had children who have started to tear these people up and the children up and send back something else. That's inhumane, Mr. President. A recent example is that of people who have lived and lived here in Iceland for seven years waiting for their finals. Why do we need seven years to cover the application of people who are reaching out for international protection? How is that possible, Mr. President? The past two or three years seem to have been quite a step forward. I did, for example. the other day, it is an average of six weeks from the day when a person who is looking for international protection will find him until he receives what is called the first interview. It was six weeks before, if I remember correctly, three months or more. Everything is also incomprehensible. However, we need to ask ourselves, " Is there any particular explanation why so many people come here? ' not to the rest of the northern countries. Hardly because of the weather. Then one must reason: We Icelanders are likely to do something that the other nations are not doing. Thus, among European circuits there are people who seem to know very well from one another, and they seem to be very well informed about their rights in various countries. As a result, in one of my earlier lives, I was active at an international airport in Iceland for 11 years. At that time, it was just a different time than it was now, in 1997-2008. I remember that over the years there was about 2% of those here who met the conditions set out in the United Nations refugee covenant. I haven't noticed how this figure has developed all over the last few years, but I'm sure it's gone up substantially. At least I'd be surprised she'd gone up a lot. We do not seem to be reluctant to welcome people in such a situation. Last year, I believe 620 people who applied to be here either for humanitarian reasons or for the position of a trustee or for international protection. About two thirds of them received unaccounted visas here during the week when such applications will be completed. It can be said that such issues are one of the issues that should not be discussed in Iceland without the fact that the listeners start to make up all sorts of opinions. My associates and I refuse to be called the 'gastins, no matter whether it's f or n' or r in front of us. We totally refused. We're none of it, nothing. But what we're primarily thinking is to reduce these very rising costs that have soared over the past few years and, at the same time, be sure that those in this difficult situation will be able to answer their queries and wait as quickly as possible. I said it in answer to a good one. A senator would feel that I should learn from the experience of others, learn from what others have done well, but also from the failures of others. Now, I think that if we were to ask a politician or even the man on the street, whether in Denmark, Sweden or Norway: Do you think that these were made a mistake or that things were done differently than they should have been done in this class for the past 30 years? Then I'm pretty sure we'd get a yes answer. Actually, I've been paying attention to this case for quite a while. I've had a family in Denmark for 17 years, so I've been watching how the trend has been in Denmark and elsewhere. As a result, I have three newborn children at school, and as a result, I pay close attention to the manner of instruction, etc. I know pretty well, I think. Then, in Denmark, social workerial government and their prime minister end up saying: "I don't want anything to take refuge in Denmark. We are not necessarily there, and we are not suggesting it in this suggestion. But then you must ask: What drives a good social calendar, just a valid part of the good people in Denmark, what drives such a person to adopt such a course? Is it because the cost has become too high for society? Could it be because of another aspect that comes in there? I think it's a combination of both. That is why I say: We should learn from what others have done well and badly. Therefore, for both economic reasons and humane reasons, this suggestion is submitted, in order to improve the situation both for those who attend here and for the Icelandic taxpayers who pay the cost of accepting all these people every year.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u108	Mr. President. The issues we're discussing here will, if it's approved, be of benefit to the majority. It will benefit New York, and it will benefit refugees no less. The only ones who might not benefit from this case are those who might wish to abuse the system. When humans do so, they are mainly the ones who need help that is needed. Thus, for various reasons, these changes are necessary, but especially so that Iceland can be more effective in helping the people who most need help. The cost has been mentioned considerably in this context, and that is not unusual. If the cost of dealing with unaccounted applications, increasing the number of applications, continuing, as has been done, we have less to play where it will be most useful and to help those who need the most help. This has been referred to in other parts of the North, especially in Norway and Denmark. There are decades of experience in dealing with these issues to a much greater extent than in Iceland until before the shortest and the yield can be seen in complete change in those countries, a change of course based on experience, and the government has accepted, they are confident that the methods used have failed badly in various ways. However, in Iceland, so far, people have continued to work on and even plan to add to what has been bad in the North countries. This suggestion is the first step, but it will, of course, have to take on additional steps. This is a modest proposal, and it is her goal to get governments to respond in time and at least starts this job. Hence, we make it very important to note that this issue has a rapid progress here because the sooner we react, the sooner we learn from the experiences of others, the more positive the effect, especially for those to whom we should focus on helping. Still, logical support of this council arrangement is very detailed, as is the case. paritaprevir At the beginning, Ólafur Ísleifsson, conducted his extensive talk. I have been aware of the fact that there is a great lack of knowledge or understanding of some senators about what has occurred in the north, why they are and what the effect would be if we do not learn from the experience of these countries. So I'm just going back in time, one three years back. Then I gave a good deal of consideration to the changes that were taking place in Danish politics and, especially, in a group of socialists or dancers. I wrote about it. I did more than I could and could be used to write in that country. I testified, for example. in a well - known student of political science at the University of Copenhagen, named Peter Nedergaard, who I don't think is wrong with me being a socialist himself, as likely many professors in that country and perhaps beyond. He pointed out that the change in Denmark was based on the fundamental values of coercists who had lost their way but had finally accepted it, to have seen the effect of straying into these matters. He pointed to the paradox of an open border or an alien policy and then to the control of a policy of welfare, which has seemed to be a designer and a key guard of the welfare system, and he realized that these two things would not go together. He also showed that by then all the leaders of the officers in Denmark had come to that conclusion. It was based on their ideals, as well as on their experience because they have gone off track and followed the path that some seem to want to go on in Iceland. Matthias Tesfaye - I'm asking President to excuse the performance if he is not correct - is one of Denmark's officers. He wrote a book on these matters that attracted considerable attention. Tesfaye, a member of an Ethiopian family, was a wallier than before he became a senator and became the head of an equal. He pointed out that a liberal or open policy in the languages of immigrants would not compare with the operation of the welfare system to the point that it was like fire and water. The book concluded that the reversal of the peers was complete because people must have learned from 30 years of experience and error for 30 years. That does not mean that Danir does not want to help refugees. They simply realized that the methods that had been used for this purpose, methods that are still used in Iceland, had not only failed but have caused multiple damage. It is therefore not amiss, Mr. President, and without reason to resent the fact that we take advantage of these decades of Dana's experience and what they have learned from that experience, and then, in particular, the category that goes before the government, the Danish peers. But to learn from the experience, they had to be in Denmark, and we also have to look at facts rather than, as things are all too bad for this group, talk primarily out of freckles, and even seek to turn aside from the reasonings of those who want to get to the core of the matter. One of the facts needed is that very large things, and, in fact, quite a bit more in the European Union, those who have applied for asylum in recent years are not their own refugees but people, people in search of a better option. If we are to open up to such migration, the consequences will be very significant, especially the consequences of placing thousands, even hundreds of thousands, and in time millions, in grave danger. It is important that, as Danir stresses now, we send from us the message that people should not use Iceland in an effort to sell such unrealistic expectations to people and that we ourselves will be in charge of whom we take, to whom we invite into the country, and on the grounds that we can help people the best. And, of course, Mr. President, let's not forget, as often as is the approach here, to assist the people in the refugee camp, which is close to their native countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u109	A respectable president. I noticed, talking with a different man. A member of the Central Party earlier, that there seems to be a very common misunderstanding about how our system works. This is best evident when people suggest that they or people who come here and want to stay here should try something other than to use the security system. My experience with people is that people in general, good people, assume that if you have a clean record, come here to work and do no harm, and that you can prove it in some way, you can be here. For example, suppose someone came here from the United States or Canada, even spoke fluently for some reason, going to work, pay his taxes, and so on. The subject could not. People find that hard to believe. In Iceland there is a religion, as I think of in most countries, of the general housing permit or the general employment permit and, a respectable president, there is no permit. There are experts' licenses, there are lacks, there are several types of licenses to be kindly allowed to exist in Iceland. General employment permits and general employment permit are not included. They're not available. I began to remember these things because there was one who did. A member of the Central Party here did not seem entirely to believe that the trustees were not allowed to work. I see why. A senator very well, and I think it's surprising to many because it's ridiculous, respectable President, that's ridiculous. In fact, they can apply for special licenses to be involved in the economy rather than accept the money that is here complained about being spent on them, but it is difficult to get permission. People in so-called dungeons or Dyflans can't get this permission and can't work. Thus, we Icelanders don't work. That's what this is, a respectable president. No permit is available to these people unless they marry an Icelander or have expertise or something like that. In fact, this misunderstanding and the way people view the freedom of people is not limited to members of the Central Party or other members of Congress, but in general. I hate to mention a word here. A senator who's not in the hall, as far as I can see, well. paritaprevir Sigrimurs Sigríður Andersen, in 2017. Senator of Justice. There was a news report on URV, explaining that Iceland was not to be abused. That's where that happened. Minister, now down. A senator, over tens of thousands of foreigners working here, and the people who were here to look into the security end system could just go the way that others, these are Americans and people from Canada, and like that, they could work here and live and people could go exactly that way. A respectable president. I'm not trying to calm down. A senator. Hv. At that time, a legal officer and a newly appointed minister of justice are still the common sense. A senator then understood it, and this is still a general thought, a respectable president. I can't blame anybody for thinking this because it's so obvious. Of course, there should be some way for people to be here. That doesn't mean all people, actually, it's allowed for this sort of thing. 7% of our species are moving to Iceland, like I left here earlier. I'm not sure that anything would go wrong if the percentage went up by 1% or a half, or half, I haven't actually calculated it, but I don't think that there'd be any crackhead hanging on us. Well, it was assumed that Italians would come here to millions of people when we walked into the EEA together. It wasn't. They can all move here today, all by number. But I think that much of the fear of these matters comes directly from ignorance, because people think there's some common sense in our system, and that's just not, a respectable president. What people think must be is not. Do not allow jobseekers to work without a special license that is difficult to obtain. There is no general employment and residence permit in Iceland. I don't remember the time when it was, and we don't have a wide border here. If people do not have the facts, it is not surprising that they would develop wrong views. [[The president calls.]] But it is also to take pride in changing our mind, looking for the facts, and concluding the realities.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u110	Mr. President. I make a second recommendation for this synopsis proposal. The sea itself is essential to our existence in Icelanders. It surrounds our small society. It is the nation's food chest, for it is truly unique fishing grounds that are devoted to the encounter of cold currents from the north and warm currents from the south, leading to the discovery of 340 species of fish. This unique life - style drew people to this level of fishing and has been built longer than any country, whenever it has been, and since the 14th century, Iceland has sold fish in international markets and made of the substantial income that has proved to be a failure over the centuries. The importance of the ocean for an Icelandic nation will never be enough. Now, as indicated in the bill's report, it is not to belittle that the three Ministry Committee members of this body of Congress have already cooperated with any cooperation under the direction of the State Department of State. In 2017 a group were appointed to coordinate the international presentation of Iceland's affairs, representing only the council. During 2018 and 2018, this Ministry had included a team of colleagues who also served as representatives of the marine organisation and had the team with the responsibility to shape Iceland's policy in so - called BBNJ negotiations that are involved in the protection and sustainable use of biological diversity and the making of a contract under the United Nations Sea Convention. In fact, that audience was not mentioned in the highest report. Secretary of State to the Generals 2020. In 2004, cohesive policies in the marine affairs were set out by the then government, published in a noble publication under the name The Sea, and were an important step in its time. But today there are times and other attitudes and new challenges. It is safe to say that much water has flowed to the sea since then, and general knowledge of the threats caused by climate change has become much bigger than it was then, e.g. on acidification and plastic pollution. Today, environmental groups are generally viewed as joint support in this struggle rather than a threat and an enemy. It is an attempt to approach this important issue in a far wider way than the management policy aims to establish certain fundamental issues that Iceland should maintain in its policy and to ensure that other viewpoints are involved in that work, especially nature's view of protection. The proposal is also an attempt to make a decision that the U.S. sea - rights policy should take into account that we are a beach fishing nation, and we are to put ourselves in it forever. This is an attempt to look at the issues of the ocean from the latest information and not just to uphold our right to hunt and demand in the sea but also to protect ourselves in this world's largest marine ecosystem. Long-term, it's all our best interests. Among the factors to consider in this work are the following: that Iceland works on biodiversity declines with the Aichi objectives to guide and take the lead in the above-mentioned negotiations at the United Nations scene on the protection and sustainable use of biological diversity in the ocean outside the jurisdiction of the state, i.e. BBNJ; to follow Iceland's policy of decommissionment in the marine industry; to be new the opportunities of the 14th UN Sustainable aim for the protection and sustainable use of the sea, particularly measures against marine pollution, acidification due to increased carbon dioxide emissions, protection of marine ecosystems and the growth of their resistance development, protection of fish stocks, as well as the ability to ensure the pooring of countries for economic development; to use in Iceland at the Arctic level of pollution, and the World Council to burn black oils for ships and black oils in the north waters will be banned like IMO approved at the South Pole, i.e. South 66 degrees. And it shall be forbidden to carry black oil through the north parts, namely: The area north of 66 degrees, but the ban also covers Iceland's economic history and is expected to reach Greenland, the Faeroe Islands, and Norway as well. It should be noted, then, that black oil is an enormously toxic, viscous ship fuel that decays very slowly in marine life, especially in cold areas, such as the North Sea. If a ship's damage or a fishing accident could result in irreparable damage to our fishing grounds, there is virtually no hope of clearing black oil from the sea. A fire of black oil also causes an increase in the greenhouse effect in the north, when soots that form sit on ice and glaciers and darker surfaces. This reduces the reflection of sunlight from ice and glaciers, and they melt faster. The most effective way to reduce the greenhouse effect in the North is to forbid the use of black oil altogether. In this regard, there is also good reason to review Iceland's International Council policy, and it is clear that the child of the past few years and decades has had little or no success, despite enormous cost. These include that Iceland revised its policy at the CITS Convention, making it clear that Iceland's objective that whales will be moved to a protective party will not be reached in a predictable future. Icelanders also have to turn straight from the oil process in the Dragon area, for it is clear that further search for new oil or gas sources does not hold up the agreement made in Paris on greenhouse gas emissions. In this connection, it is worth reminding you of a bill. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's son on the freezing of oil searching from the last noncompliment, but there is reason to believe that this council will be reassigned. In the context of the EU it is time for Iceland to provide a credible programme for participating in the European Union's joint effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, with a warning that 55% of EU emissions by 2030 will not be enough to achieve the aim of maintaining the air temperature below 2°C, let alone 1.5°. In all this work, it is important to consult a free organization on policy in the marine affairs. Icelanders need to consider the results of IPCC on the effects of climate change on the ocean. On the basis of such a report by IPCC of September 2018, the issues of the ocean will be discussed on the basis of the Paris Convention in the same way as the protection of tropical rain forests. A respectable president. This proposal is presented in the belief that there is now more urgent than ever that there is an overall policy on the marine issues involved in climate change, sustainable innovation, and the protection of biodiversity. It is also important that Icelanders be social parties to themselves and trustworthy ones. From the time the Icelands received control over their own fishing grounds, the nation's water policy for years was based on the concept of coastal countries' rights to control the use of resources within their own jurisdictions on the basis of the United Nations Sea rights Convention. This objective was met when the contract was signed in 1982 in Jamaica and became international law in 1994 when a certain number of Member States had validated the contract. It went into effect here when it was validated by the General of 1985, first by Western nations. During the years since the United Nations Sea Convention, there have been many major environmental challenges, and in 1982 climate change was almost an unknown concept. It is only over a decade after the ocean's acidification has been known. Since 1993, when the Smuggle fishing has been undertaken from around here by a great but less foreseers, fish markets in international seas, as well as the economic history of the Third World, often with dire consequences. Iceland has increasingly been a member of regional contracts that involve the protection and use of the Atlantic Ocean and the last of us a fully validated General Convention to prevent a controlled marine fishing in the central part of the Arctic Ocean. In addition, more regional agreements remain on the globe than in many areas where there are no protection and pirate fishing are still practiced in many areas. In such an activity, the Icelanders are not to participate. A respectable president. This conclusion is not based on the fact that the first carrier is an expert on marine rights or fishing. Another closer one. I believe, however, that it is very important for the Generals to develop policy in this matter, but that it is not the leaving of the marine interest groups or officials in the councils of foreign affairs, marine routes, or some part of the environment, all of them born. I think it's important to talk about such a policy in this area, and I think it's important that such a policy is holistic and that it comes from a different perspective. I believe it is important to be developed in consultation with the general public so that it leads in one direction to serve the public interest, national interest, and is able to protect marine life and use a responsible and sustainable way. Considering the definition of sustainability that it needs to be based on eco-efficiency, not going on, but also economic and social and clear, and to face the threats to this environment now that the sea's acidification has not been more than 20 million years. We all have our best interests together as Icelanders, as citizens on planet Earth, and here everyone has to lie on one, the jurists, the sailors, the natureists, the developers, the scientists and the politicians. Upon this recommendation, Mr. President, I request that the proposal be sent to the hospital. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u111	A respectable president. I recommend here for a bill that changes in the Assembly in the making that members of the Council Committee will normally be opened. This is an idea that I've ever brought up before here in a pita, although I don't remember a precise date. It is sometimes considered relatively radical here at the General Assembly that meetings of regular committees are generally open. I want to start by pointing out that it's not. It's, like, a... And do it in New Zealand, and there is knowing; there is no difference. In this country, concern has turned over the meeting of regular committees open to three committees or visitors may not be able to express themselves as freely as possible. I think, first of all, there's an overrated problem. Second, I think it's rather a result of some local culture, which somehow means that there's always a lot of confidence in things, without people ever wondering exactly why. Today, it is customary for the General Assembly to simply read up the reports of the bills of the bills and the synonyms. So I don't want to, and I see why. 2.m. We're out of here. I don't feel like listening to it. I understand that. Rather, I would like to discuss the reasons for doing this and why this is a good idea. The matter may at first appear self-centered on the part of the General Assembly, as perhaps a change in the general body of Congress, but committee meetings do not have to be open to keep an eye on them - unless they are in tiny councils in fact and have experience with it, I know that at times you will have no access to these meetings, it is unfortunate, and it certainly would be to meet the position of those members of Congress. But mainly there are committees thinking about the public in the country and not necessarily that some citizens are staring at committee meetings for fun. Regarding the Agency's committee meetings and reports, as well as the general government information, the information rights are not thought that a large community group is going to start calling for information or seeing a meeting but that the members do what is in favor, employment, or interest in it, and thus play a role but also the role of being able to report when something is brought up for a public discussion. Of course, I'm referring especially to the media. The common citizen who reads the news or listens to it is important that journalists have access to information. It's not usually the city itself that's picking on them - indeed some people, in fact, an amazing number. However, the point is not that the greater need is for the public voter to start a tour of the WHO meeting. Of course, it can. For example, consider what is now going on with innovation on a job committee. I think that any discussion in society would be much clearer, more fertile, richer, better, more accurate, and more enlightened if there were a general open - up by committees of the employment committees. There is a huge group of paintings, and a great deal of different viewpoints among people who disagree or are in favor, who have not made up their minds or anything. There is a rich opportunity for big social discussions, but this opportunity is seriously unapproached because the only thing that citizens and the media have access to is the Congress's documents, i.e. The narratives that come in, the Senate documents themselves, see the primes, the members of Congress, and maybe the coverage of individual categories. Piranus and I have, for example. have a Obscurial conference on this matter once before, and will have another Thursday next, 5:30 to 7. Everyone's welcome to him, and he's the first person on Pirata's web, paira.is. This advertisement somehow came in very natural with me, I just want to say it. After all, my experience here at the General Assembly is that there are a number of cases that might not quite make people protest, but the public and the media would benefit from better access to them in order to deepen their discussion. This is a new opportunity that I think we could use better by regularly opening up a meeting, and it's important to keep it in place: normally, not always. Of course, there are situations where people either need or want to close meetings and are expected in the bill, e.g. if you discuss or provide data in confidentiality for any reason. There may be a number of views; a security point of view, a personal point of view, that information can affect a market if it escapes too early or something similar. Likewise, visitors may simply request that a meeting be closed, and this is likely to happen. I can imagine that there are some guests who appear before a Senate committee and are uncomfortable talking openly and openly with members of the council. Sometimes visitors complain of the progress of other institutions or of complaining about something they feel sensitive or unwilling to be traced back for one reason or another. It is perfectly normal to deal with such concerns. The idea here is, not to open up something that is being hidden, but to deepen the discussion, allowing them to have access to the meetings that would enjoy taking more and more part in the legal process itself. Of course, this includes contact with the public in the form of discussion and attendance to the Generals and, of course, media coverage and community discussion. Other national and legislation countries have often opened up committee meetings. My feeling is that in Iceland it is unduly shy to say things in public. I could probably pull some angle out of my pocket about why that is, but I don't think the reasons are good. I think it would be better to speak more freely at the General Assembly. I don't think anyone would think of closing meetings. Although the debate here at the council Hall is sometimes slandered for how it can become, I do not think that for Congress work to do, it would be better if meetings were closed. I don't think that's the solution that would make the discussion more objective or that would make people listen more, on the contrary. I simply have no reason to believe that any committees would open up, even though members of the committee and visitors would start acting a little different, there would be trouble with court treatment. I don't think so. My experience of having attended countless committees and meetings is that even if someone occasionally wants to express something that would be uncomfortable or unwise to express in public, it is just so rare in comparison with the cases where visitors are simply presenting views and information and answers to the questions of members of the Parliament. This is an overwhelming part of what is taking place at committee meetings. More awesome is not the corruption taking place there. Even if the members of the committee themselves, i.e. Councilmen, want to talk about how they feel about the other person or what this is not about revealing all their conversations. We members of members of our committees know completely that we call one another, send messages and e - mails, and find them in the English room or under the stairs or in the hall or in the dining room or in any group room or whatever. There is nothing that prevents members from speaking freely and honestly or in confidentiality with one another, even though committee meetings are usually open, since this has not been a problem in nationalities where committee meetings are usually opened. I think this is a good experiment we should go into and it would improve the public's ability to monitor and participate in matters here. Some cases, and now I refer back to these innovations that are being discussed on a professional committee, are of the nature that countless stakeholders are extremely interested in their progress and would put themselves in the sight of committee meetings, just to know what questions are asked, just to shoot at the possibility that there is a question or that there is information that would be worth the senator looking for an explanation or answer to the visitors who are supposed to appear before the Senate committee. None of this is to reveal something scary. It is all to help that democracy's teeth work as well as they possibly can. At least I was surprised when I first became a member of the Parliament, what the Council really is. The same can't be said of all of them in Iceland, unfortunately. A person who wants to learn a matter will get a long way by studying the documents that are fundamental, the Senate documents, and particularly the reviews, I don't talk about if the case has been delivered and there are old reviews. It is simply possible to lose sight of the subject, its background, other related documents, and its like, and to gain a profound understanding of what is taking place at the General Assembly. It can be done. But there's always a missing committee meeting. They are always a blind spot in which there is often a lack of character, interests, or media needed to become informed, to be able to explain the facts, to recognize the progress, and even to influence it through discussions or conversations with members of the council. I think that by removing this blind spot that shuts up committee meetings, you might be able to improve the community discussion of individual matters. Information that only comes out when the senators ask outside parties would be better revealed. Our discussions here at the General Assembly are one thing, apart from, of course, all the programs that take place here and the fact that we are somehow probing our views and just asking one another. However, there is a fundamental difference between being in an organized, professional environment, such as the committees, for a limited period of time where there is a much stricter conference management and better control of time and where members of the Parliament interact with non - members. There's a fundamental difference, and I think it underestimates how much deeper discussion could take place in society, and especially in the media, if these relationships were also open. This seems to me to be the lost link in the clear direction of the Generals and when it comes to our work here. As for technical implementation, law technology and the like, I'm going to refer to the report and save it. 2.m. We're out of Suðvest. The talk and, of course, of course, not to mention a respectable president. So, first of all, I suggest that the conference committees of the Generals regularly open, but second, that this case is going to happen. The management and monitoring committee and the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u112	A respectable president. Thank you. Gunnarsson Not just for this great speech but for the fact that only half of the group of Falcon people are in some way, but somehow I've just--I certainly would have liked to make this suggestion because it really pleases me. There are a number of things you wonder about. We talk about how trusting the council really is, how little public knowledge is about how we operate. It seems completely in the national soul that we are regularly in this discourse, but as I sense it in the community, people do not seem to realize the scope of the work that is right in the committees. So I don't think this proposal is just preconceived democracy, it's a little bit more direct, the democracy we're always calling for. We're always calling for our voters who brought us here for the ministry to join us and see what we're really doing. I think so, because I hear why. A senator does not specifically mention it, an overexcited positive friendly at the proposal. In fact, it shows our work, what we are doing. So it might also be in the national soul, such as the chair here, that we generals do much more than just here in this room, though important and remarkable. This is actually true after we've had all the work done inside the committees. I say, first of all, I'm very sorry I couldn't be on the motion, that I was too late to press the button. Second, I wonder which way. There's something a senator can only come on.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u113	A respectable president. I appreciate your support, of course. I don't know how to explain this about the transporters, but I'm sure we're looking at the possibility that something might have gone wrong on our side. We'll just look at it. In that case, you may be able to print the document. At least I'll check it out before then. Senator and I thank her again for her support. Regarding the program sometimes referred to, that the public does not see the commission and the good that often takes place at the General Assembly, it touches the fundamental difference I mentioned in my speech, the difference between when members of Congress speak to one another, and when members speak with guests. There is a fundamental difference between the conversation between two individuals who have a campaign struggle for much different viewpoints than that of a senator who seeks information, asks questions, or disagrees with his own viewpoint. It's on a committee. Of course, relationships are completely different because they do not have the disagreements that are here, naturally. We are here to settle differences. That's what the Agency is for. It is to settle differences of viewpoints and to pull in different directions. Otherwise, we wouldn't be here at the Council. It'd be just some office. Anxiety that some have had from this bill, or from open committee meetings, is in the process that the meeting changes to a greater degree to something that people feel is some kind of show, as some people experience. I understand your point of view, but I'm not worried about it because of what I mentioned, that it's a different kind of communication. We are talking to guests, and we want to be polite to our guests and respect them. We do not necessarily disagree with them even if we are looking for answers to questions or such, at least not at all. The other is that I don't think it's simply the political interest of members of Congress to turn committees into some kind of drama. I just don't think that's what they're doing. I think the committee will benefit them best, as they use them today; for information, to ask questions, and to gain a clearer picture of the subject under discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u114	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I understand that as well. A senator is saying that if we knew that everyone was watching, our open meetings might turn into some show. But I'm putting it up for what? A senator may not be something that would just get used to. We always have to get used to things. It would be a new form. Well, at times we've had an open meeting. It seems to me that they were giving up quite well, but they somehow seem to be much more formal. You have to suck your nose and something so special. Then again, I want to ask why. A senator knows what it is, for example. To be done now by the city but his nice representative moves are in the mayor's. The city government is shutting down live broadcasts of mayor's meetings. It was decided at our last mayor meeting. I think it's a totally strange development compared to what we're trying to call for; more contact with the voters and people in the country, to draw people really into our jobs so that they're aware of who we are and what we're doing. Finally, does anyone really think that we are communicating with one another except just like that? Even if we do not agree, we will never be able to settle this in such a way that only in exceptional circumstances will our views as a government stand ever be accomplished. Of course, we communicate with each other. But I really think it's a great thing. I think it's positive from A to O, at least as long as it goes on.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u115	A respectable president. My experience with the opening of the Generals Summit is not that it plays a more visual role than it does at a closed committee meeting. Certainly, the conference board is usually, if not always, a little more rigid, like the coven. A senator might mention, end up just fine in himself. The difference between these meetings is that at a committee meeting it is much easier to test new boundaries, perhaps allow some members of the Parliament to have five minutes at a time in their dealings with the visitor, or that each member and guest gets two or five minutes, or whatever. Time can be tailored so much as to what the meeting is for. I have, for example. Sometimes they listened to an open meeting with the bank manager, since he is explaining his reports and at a meeting with an FBI agent and some of these. I just don't see this drama. I don't see that the committees are somehow more performances. But these meetings are organized, which is just fine. Sometimes I watch committees in the United States as a special amateur for the United States, where people say all kinds of things in plain language. I sometimes wondered if an Icelander would say such things publicly. It tells people at meetings: it's like this, I made that decision, and if you think anything about it, you feel like something else, and it's okay. In the United States, there is much higher cultural tradition just to disagree on something that really matters. It may be a factor in what Iceland is at times shy about expressing itself, but in the same way, it's incredibly unafraid to let something wander which might be more than thoughtful, let's say. Also, these U.S. Senate committees often present the answers in order to explain something roughly at low levels here and now. Then you can arrive at a closed meeting later and explain more details. It's totally demeaning, and I'm sure it is. It's also expected in this bill. There's no problem doing this. [[The president calls.]] This is no big mystery. It's not that complicated, in my opinion. It's just something we need to try. We must dare, I think.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u116	President. I'm very happy that this fancy matter has been brought into the Senate Hall for many reasons, both from the position I am temporarily in here, in the House of II as a member of Congress as well as personally. This particular case has been one of the red strands throughout the council of the motion, eh? paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson's son. I dug up a blog record on our well - advertised website seven years ago. It states on May 14, 2014, under the headline: The Helgi of Hrafn calls for an open committee meeting, with permission of presidents: This morning's work was completed by Dr. Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson and discussed an open meeting. The point of the discussion was that last night, Mr. Hrafn met the grass root of the pack to discuss the prime products for the approval of donors and bill for health testing. The Senator was deeply impressed with how much he would remember all the discussion if the root of grass had been able to study what had been said on the meeting committee meetings. In his speech, Hrafn's Helgi recommended a general openup for committee meetings, but visitors of the Committee meeting may request confidentiality in the necessary cases. It is this same year that I joined my party, Pirata, and it was because of this ideologies, because of this sort of shifting of existence and politics myself, that I was fascinated and have had the privilege of representing here at the General Assembly. [[Up front.]] By permission of the President, I'd like to read here Article 4. from Pirata's basic policy because it's very relevant to the case we're discussing here at the Senate Hall, highlighting the ideologies I quoted earlier. It says that transparency has to do with opening the power in the monitoring of the power memory: ▪ The Piritaans believe that transparency plays an important role in the illuminating of the public and thus qualifying for a democratic decision. Information should be available to the public. Information should be available in the open data format, in the form most appropriate to use. For a person to be responsible, he must have the ability to make decisions. Pirates believe that everyone has an uncircumcised right to make decisions of his own matters and a right to know how such decisions have been made. In the bill we address, however, a change in the political law is presented, so that the Parliament's committees will normally be held in silence, although with some exception. So there is no need to worry that there is a danger, that national security issues would not be discussed in confidential matters or matters involving the important interests of Iceland that need to be concealed. Like what? paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son may be called upon to seek a secret and can remain confidential. Seven years later, after I fully discovered this political ideologies, I have personally attended a number of Generals meetings. I'd like to remind you that the most recent time at committee meetings is the very best in the history of government reviews. So it would not be an enormous dramatic change in transparency, but it is still important to that road, as it were. paritaprevir Sæland hareland rightly entered, increasing public transparency and confidence in politics and at the General Assembly and in the work we do here. There are certain matters and activities that are hidden here at the council and especially on the committee field. It is unnecessary incomprehensible, and this suggestion is very effective. There may also be misunderstandings regarding our work here at the council and the way things are done. This would be such a good, positive step toward growing confidence in the Council and increasing confidence in politics, as it is called. Finally, I wish. The candidate of the proposal is truly happy. I hope this case works through the council, and it will be approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u117	A respectable president. I'm going to be clear and open: I don't think this is a good idea. It's not because I keep secret or I don't want all the treatments to be very transparent. I believe in transparency, transparent administration and transparency at the council. Like what? paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son has come in here before then, the council's work is pretty transparent. We're on the air every day when we have a conference meeting. Committee meetings and the program are always in place. The matter is clear, and we are considering it. It's all on the Internet. We also have opportunities for open meetings, and there may well be reasons to hold such meetings more often. Still, they are different from other committee meetings. Of course, there is good reason for voters to be aware of the nature and nature of the work being done here at the council, and of course, much is required in the committees. But at our meeting, there are some who are following up their comments. Yet, they often speak in other ways, even more candidly, at meetings with members of the council than in what they give up in written reviews. There will often be a very helpful discussion with guests and with members of various categories, and there will be opportunities to ask questions and answers, even the wrong questions that people don't always have the courage to ask in open meetings. I fear that if all meetings were to be opened, we would be in the same play that takes place here in a hall where people like to listen to themselves, but less fun to listen to others talk, as the fame has become. This is a play in which individuals take a certain position in making a clear stand. As a politician, you are also offering your stand, the position you have on the matter, but I think it is very important that members of the council can come up with a bit cold, i.e. not with shaped views, and use the opportunity to shape their views on matters. I fear that a process would somehow be lost if we had all committee meetings open and in effect that would call for the meeting before the meeting or after the meeting, which I think is very often the case. After all, something has been handled openly; when people are talking about some conclusion before or after the meeting, at times not all have access to it. A respectable president. Although I'm a transparencyist and I believe that there is good reason to increase the level of performance in jobs so that people can better understand what the senator's job is, I don't think the answer is that all committees should be open. True, some are supposed to be open, and perhaps we can have more open meetings. But I don't agree that there is a reason to have it as a principle of some kind.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u118	A respectable president. I chose to speak at the end rather than answer 2nd. We're out of Suðvest. " Bryndís Haraldsdóttir like to discuss some of the doubts that some senators have without necessarily expecting us to settle it right here and now. You see, I quite understand the view that the senators would like to conduct the informal talk that takes place at committee meetings, perhaps especially those taking place between guests; one set of guests goes out and the members of the committee chats while other guests enter. Then, when guests are finished, members of the council sometimes talk a little between themselves. I realize the limit that we speak from our own personal experience and experience, but my experience is that the best meeting is where the senators only have to try one another with their own stupid views, ask possible stupid questions, and try to figure out how they see all these things. They are the best and most useful after, and not necessarily in the committee itself. I'd appreciate it if at the end of any committee meeting, or even every part of the program, the members of the council would have an opportunity to talk to one another without the meeting being open if they were more comfortable with it, at least as a step, some compromise. When I first spoke to these matters, a small number of people in the community thought that this is part of the process of extorting corruption or revealing darkness, but something like this cannot be done. Senators can always make it. They can always meet. They can always talk. We're not going to be public talks between members of Congress. It's not the goal of the bill either. That's what I wanted to do too. The objective is not to open up things that people do not want to open because they have reason to speak confidentially or because they may wish to allow uninformed questions or opinions to dictate them to their convictions. The goal is to improve the ability of the public and the media to discuss matters. This is the goal, but it is not necessarily achieved by hearing all the disapproving speculations that may arise in the relations of members of Congress. On the other hand, I believe it would be very helpful to get them out in our dealings with guests. On the other hand, when it comes to the fact that the members of the council want to try a way that is incomplete or that questions with guests, I have to admit that I do not have the sympathy for that position, and I have been in it many times myself. I would like to explain it a little further. First of all, the number of guests we receive lies ahead of us. The guests have usually sent in a review that they can familiarize themselves with. The good comments are brief and clear, some of which are long and clear, while others are long and vague. In general, my experience is that if we take pride in this, we can study the reviews before we arrive at the meeting, even at a meeting of ourselves, when there is more to it. It is also the second thing that I think is cultural, and we can resolve only by changing some of our attitudes, i.e. the attitude toward irreverent beliefs, unappreciated statements, and unappreciated questions and viewpoints. I have no problem coming here in a pita and saying plainly that I don't know or have not heard of anything. Sometimes other senators make it a terrible place to be hit, but it simply isn't my experience. Some people are tempted by the fact that they are going to eat from it. But my experience is that it is very difficult because people are more likely to have members of Congress and representatives who study the matter, learn and shape their views in an informed way than members who pretend to know everything and are struggling with one another because they have not read this book or the other report. According to my experience, and perhaps it is very different among members of Congress, it is also not very difficult to bring up a core question without necessarily starting with some speech that the senator does not know the matter and does not understand it. You can ask intelligently and tactfully, and you may find some intelligent answers without having made a careful examination of the subject. There is also something else that we must not forget that is involved in discussions such as here, we are looking for information for the common people. We are also here to ask questions that the common people ask themselves, and the public is not in the position of becoming such experts in all of these matters as we are, active in them, and at a good price. So I'm not worried about it. I understand them anyway, and I respect them, but I'm going to point them out. The management and monitoring committee to specifically investigate this element. If this can be arranged in any way or through any compromise, the person here is completely open to this, as long as the objective is clear, i.e. to improve the discussion and further enable the public and the media to participate in a discussion of matters that are here at the General Assembly. This will improve the discussion, and when the discussion is better, democracy is better.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u119	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a synopsis proposal made by a council revere. So, with Mr. President's permission, the suggestions itself would be as follows: ▪ The General concludes to hide a marine economist and agricultural minister to provide public information on funding and other payments made on the basis of agricultural agreements. The information should be published electronically and readily available to all to be specified without charge. The information for each year will be strengthened by information about the sum; its foundation and its name; and the residence of those who serve in it will be established. A minister proposes that the implementation and introduction of the General Assembly will be no later than the 2021 Fall Summit. - That. this year's fall. This proposal is moved for the second time; it was submitted to the last assembly, but it did not reach the point of being present at the Assembly Hall. But the matter has a lead, and I think it's right to go over it a little and also, why it's important. Access to information is essential for good decisions, trust, and maintenance. Bioavailability of information is essential to the proper handling of public funds and should ensure equality with the provision of limited quality, who uses it and on what basis. Thus, interests are brought to light. In general, much has been achieved in this area, but much remains uncluttered, and much is hidden in the fog of dissatisfaction to have access to information. The Kingdom provides various forms of support for various activities; individual and business. These include some forms of direct strength. For example, for example, an artist's wage, a innovation for innovation, science and development, a scholarship to publication, to name something. All these strengths are revealed, and the information on who can do what? It should be mentioned that at present, the State has taken decisive action and has given several sources the strength to cope with the problems that many face. All of this depends on the requirement that those receiving the support and on what basis and on what basis. Is that good? In addition to this, in some areas the State has set a good example and has published, for example. publicly on the Web Opens government accounts information on pay-employment accounts and institutions from state records. Transparent and access to information on who has the strength to work is automatic and normal in terms of the provision of public funds. This proposal is designed specifically to allow public and accessible information on agricultural grants and payments. Not without reason. Farming enjoys a great deal of taxation on the part of the government. Special agreements with farmers are made for contributions from the State Fund to specific projects. The value of these contracts is worth many billions of dollars, and I think that the direct strength in this format is somewhere between 12 and 15 billion, so it's a substantial amount each person in Iceland pays for this sector. I'm sure that's an improvement for the public. That's for the government's benefit. This is an improvement for general and informed discussion, e.g. in the news media on agricultural issues and for scholars interested in finding out how to handle this money. It is very important that this information is available, and most important, I believe, for farmers and farmers, it is very important that this information is available so that all discussions are based on facts. It is also interesting, indeed, for farmers themselves, to see the overall picture, how these sponsors are protected. I noted that this was the second time the proposal was proposed. The problem was that at the end of 2018, I asked for a written answer that was involved in agricultural support, especially in sheep's prayers. The request was answered at the end of January, when a minister did not rely on the procedure, i.e. to tear apart the strength depending on who would be given the strength exactly and on what grounds, and to refer to a matter that should be kept secret. The request for that answer was denied and referred to terms of engagement law, specifically by the 50s and 90s. not to publish sensitive information or information that is not considered necessary in response from council members to members of the council. Of course, it is obvious that this is a provision for public funds to be given to the public and is entitled to be informed about and in terms of public interest. Then it is well - known that in the countries around us, such information is available. Whether we look to the Northern and European countries, we can look up all this strength on every farm and who runs the nest and what kind of strength we have. The request was denied, but I had a place to speak for. Agricultural and marine economist described my frustrations at the end. He took the inquiry well and said that he wanted to see if it might be improved. Then, in this case, a person who had been looking for this information but who had been denied the case had appealed to the Committee of Information. The decision - making board on February 26, states that the person's right to the information he asked was very similar to that of the person's inquiry. When that was the case, I renewed my inquiry and expanded it a little and asked again. The conclusion was that the answer came from the highest level. Minister to which all this information appeared. In this answer, the Senate documents of this period can, in effect, determine the precise distribution of these strengths. So the interpretation proposal here for the discussion suggests that it will be a permanent feature, or that it will be adopted, that in each year, when the strength given is given will be officially published, it can be looked up into the list and that it can be established. In other words, you do not have to ask questions or call for this information specifically; this will be a natural and self - aware feature of the government's information to the citizens on how this money is spent. I think it's wise, as if I've tried to argue here. I believe this will improve the discussion in many ways and will be a natural source of information on the part of the government. Governments have tended to be very reluctant to provide information like this and have often had to pull them out of the system, as the example shown here. But I want to be reasonable, and I believe that there is a considerable change in viewpoint in these matters. In particular, I think it was discovered now, when we've been accepting the terms of the distribution of the public money in relation to the Koronovirus epidemic, that there's been an absolute harmony here in the council that everything should be on the tables around that granting them all. Therefore, I believe that there will be an easy situation and a body of Congress will agree to this synopsis and that it will then become a public declaration that such information will be made on the market without further sequelae. As I said before, I sincerely believe that farmers themselves have no particular interest in the fact that this strength is being developed. They are granted on the basis of agreements made with farmers, and there is nothing for farmers to be ashamed of taking a firm stand on the basis of such agreements and has nothing to do with the opinions of a person so as to have of the nature of that kind of strength and for what to do. It's based on the system we have, and it's right to be informed about it and to match the open government we're supposed to have. We would like to have these issues at tables like everyone else when it comes to informing about what is being done with public funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u120	A respectable president. I recommend a synopsis of a pocket-chilling arrangement on behalf of the council of Stockholm's people. It reads: The General concludes to hide a social and child care minister to provide a legal bill for changing the laws on the subject of the elderly as a guarantee of delinquency of a so-called pocket money system and that a pensioner who takes a pension to a nursing facility maintains an impaired pension and benefits from the state's insurance agency. The objective of the bill must be that the elderly be granted legal financial and self - sufficiency. The Constitution proposal was submitted to 149. And the 76th matter, 150th legislature, and is now reassigned as unchanged. This is the third time I've been performing here, entering the highest speaker of the country, and the most influential, and measuring for this fair and just language that has actually been in the discussion for decades without anything being done. For many years the older citizen's national relationship has promoted a change in the law on the affairs of the elderly, No. 125/1999, so that older citizens maintain their own self - control and financial independence regardless of their home state. The V. chapter of the law discusses the cost of aging services. It also discusses the involvement of residents in residence homes on expenses. When a person moves into a nursing home, the right of the person to a pension is lost. - Can you imagine? It's as if he just stopped being, you know, that it's over. - The person may have the right to an allowance, or a allowance, which in 2020 was up to a maximum of 77,084 k. per month. Can you imagine? We were talking about when we were kids and teenagers, if you got 1,000 bucks. That's a week for allowances. It was then that we could get allowances when we were kids and lived at home with Mom and Dad when we were involuntary. We also do this for the elderly when they can no longer, for some reason, live on their own premises or in their own estate and move into a nursing home. Somewhere, an old man becomes an old man, but it is a shame to drive his way completely through the vast Allied legalization, so that people who have grown up are up to this age with a lack of energy, a lack of independence, and financial independence. It is quite remarkable that I am standing here for the third year in line to recommend this level of fairness. How can this social group, the elderly, be so completely exposed to parentheses? It's a complete mystery to me. This suggests that the government will be assigned to provide a bill that guarantees the autonomy and financial resources of elderly persons when they enter a nursing home and that the payment of residents in nursing homes will be changed so that residents will keep their pensions and pay directly for rents, food, and other costs of household care. In other words, it is simply asking that a person, although elderly, be allowed to maintain dignity while he can, only to pay his rent and support. Of course, the elderly are mistaken, it says itself, but this arrangement is for our reproach and eternal shame, and I am completely hidden from a mystery - I have not completely submerged this -- who in the hell could have thought of it. You might want to dig into how anyone ever thought of treating an elderly person that way. It is totally incomprehensible, even more so, that this has not been corrected for decades and no matter how much it is called for. However, the overall rules for health care provided in the homes will remain unchanged. It will be expected that residents could have the right to improve housing and the expense of individuals in nursing homes will be paid and dropped by those with low incomes, the nature of the case. I've stood here for hours, dozens of hours, since I was cosine to stand in the highest speakers of the country and represent the poor people, trying to fight with their mouths and jaws for the poor. I say, they're lucky, though, to have this saying, for one thing is certain that before the people's party came and began to cry here, there was little to it for poor people. Now I want to tell you something. In 1989, Sigurður Guðmundsson, director of Halldór, granted permission from the Ministry of Health and Security to change parts of Daltown, the home of the elderly in Dalíkíkík, to protect a service apartment. Halldór wrote a report to the Ministry of Health and the head of Dalltown in October 1990, several months after the test project was completed. The experiment was designed to allow the elderly to maintain financial independence. Four men and four women participated in the experiment, and the results were that participants in the experiment showed increased activity, increased social life, and more traveled into town. The experiment is likely to be negative, and we just know it ourselves, and no expert needs to see it when you've got your feet peeled off, so you just look at yourself as if you're almost an helpless baby, a kid at your father's house, and a mom who says thank you for getting a pocket money. Just think. I never thought I'd have to talk about this for the third time. I thought it was enough to come up here and remind you two years ago, so I'd be happy to see you draw this out and it'd be approved one, two and three. No, it's a different wave. I guess that's a bet. This experiment will likely lead to negative practices and premature deterioration of the people living there. A group of staff who undertook the pocket money system was appointed in May 2016 - another group, what have been left over? - of the then social and housing minister, Eygló Harðardóttir. You know what? Just amazing, wonder and wonders, there's nothing left of him. He hasn't returned his results yet. In 2018, the response to the Minister of Social Equal Opportunities in response to the results of the group, it was found that the work group was still in the preparatory phase. So two years later, the group was still preparing to start considering the matter. What does this show, Mr. Honorable President? What kind of disrespect is being shown to this social group acquitted and holy, forever and ever? It's not often that you get completely speechless, but it doesn't matter how you fight with your mouth and jaws, it doesn't seem like there's anything that goes straight in here. The pocket money system has been under way for many years, decades as I have mentioned before, and without any of these ideas coming into place. In 1990 a comparable arrangement in Denmark was changed. Residents who lived in institutions kept their money but paid for themselves, as they had made it, from the time they became independent from their parents. We pretend to be here in a democratic, free society. It's just not quite fine, but if a person can't live in his own home for health reasons and needs to go to a nursing home, even if he's completely spiritual, he's torn down like that. His feelings of self - respect are completely flushed down the drain and rinsed well afterwards. This is more painful than tears, and this did not necessarily mean in Denmark that they had more money between their hands. It's not all about that. In this case it is also about self - respect, about the dignity we are talking about. Thus, by this arrangement of interpretation, social and child - care ministers must promptly review their allowance system so that elderly people maintain their own autonomy to as much as possible in order to minimize any change in individual success or behavior that they need in changing agricultural measures. So it's been rolling since 2016. Then they were assigned to a group of people who were still preparing to start looking at things two years later. The year is 2021. In the fall, elections are an honorary president. It's possible, if we can be loud enough and talk enough about it, that this is going to be changed, because it won't be changed unless the people sitting here at the board change it. No matter how much a small party of government opposition is willing to change things and bring forth justice and eliminate poverty, no one gets less tax and less than 350,000 dollars. No matter how much I sing, though I have an excellent singing voice. There will be nothing but this wonderful government, making works speak for everyone, not just some. Poor people can no longer wait for justice, that is pretty clear, and our older citizens, the elderly, should not be deprived of their financial resources, even though they are in a position to spend the last years in a nursing home. It is a minor honor to those who are prepared, in the sweat of their face, to work back on broken pieces to bring us into the land and the form we are living today that we allow them to maintain the dignity that is possible until they move to another area.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u121	A respectable president. I recommend a synopsis on the Sunway, which I'm sure is one of our more important implements that should have been established long ago. It's actually simple, it's about hiding the highest. A transport minister offering out the mission Sunway, design, repair, construction, business, the whole package on his own. In a Senate case, it says here, by permission of the President: The General concluded to hide transport and local government administrators in cooperation projects on the treatment of Sunways, cr. pre-team 2.mg. 1st par. Residents, No. 1 80/2020, so a private member is concerned with the overall funding of the project. The secretary will explain the progress of the 151th legislature. Simply put, it's just a matter of taking a Daff on an outing and doing it on your own. One of the most expensive projects considered in the road system in Iceland is the swimming track. In spite of large increases in newly made contributions in recent years, it is clear that if the waterway was to be financed in this way, either a significant increase in public funds would have to be made or reduced in other places. Neither of them is of sufficient comfort to me. That's why I think, and they are. Senators who make this suggestion with me, the Daffy Way building is an ideal project on a private project. This council proposal is moving along with me. The members of the council, Haraldur Benediktsson, Jón Gunnarsson's son, Njáll Friðbertsson, and Vilhjálmur Árnason. Privates would be assigned to take care of all the arrangements, funding, and constructions at the Daffway, as well as for a period of time involved in the collection of roads. At a certain time, the State would take over as a Diving Way leader. In view of this, it is thus expected that the implementation will be carried out in the general invitation following ads. Ideas about Sunwater are older than the one listed here, but they were first proposed to the main organization of Reykjavíkurburg and therefore have a long, long history of various groups of work, organization, and so forth. Dizziness is an important link to the perforation system of the capital area. In the waterway, an improved link between the Grafarvog District and the city's contour system would be reduced by the pressures of the year, which is unacceptable during major periods of stress. Then it is important from the public defenses to increase the number of connections from the city. A two - mile - long journey between Kiliness and the city's central city is reduced, improving transport availability from West and North America to the city. At that time, a highway in the Westland road is lifted through Mosfellsville. Thus, as a result, the Sunway improves a link between national and capital areas and contributes to greater and more secure traffic and freight transport from the airport at Cheflavík, through the Smokeynes Way, the capital area, and the Bayway into Western and Northern countries. Transporters believe that there will be an urgent first attack on Daffy Ways where traffic conditions will only worsen from today's situation, ensuring safety routes from the capital to the east and north in the event of natural disasters. Well, it's been some time since I put this case here at a council meeting, but I'm going to have a chance to recommend it tonight, and I'm grateful for that. I'm assuming this matter of Congress goes to what? Environment and Transport Committee for discussion. But as I mentioned, I am referring to the legislation on the cooperation of transport projects that are a recent law that we approved here at the council. I know it's the highest. There have been a number of transport and rural administration ministers working on the Sunway, in fact, more than 40 years since this idea was introduced. But I've heard of the highest. Ministers intend to present the results of this task force, and I certainly hope there's an optimal way that can be used. Nevertheless, I still believe that there is good reason for the council to address this decree and the way I and others have it. The senators are pointing out that the work will be done on their own. I know there's an opportunity for further infrastructure projects by getting private partners with us in that job. There are investors out there, and I'm just going to mention the pension fund, but I don't doubt that there are even more who are looking for long-term practical and safe investments. I would have thought there was a poolway in that Pulia. That's why I find it interesting, a respectable president, to call for an offer. I hope this council proposal has a quick and successful development here at the council, and I hope that the first of the Sunday weekend can be the first.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-02-51.u122	A respectable president. I'm here to make a plagion proposal on behalf of you. paritaprevir Þórunn Egilsdóttir, now on leave. Transporters and Þórunn are Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Brjánsson, Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson and Ari Trausti Guðmundsson. The conclusion reads: ▪ The Council of Environment and Resource Ministers concludes to put in place August 2021 on government, farms, land transplants, employment, and the public who aims to increase the share of the public's share in carbon exchanges by land healing, thereby implementing national initiatives for land healing. This resolution proposal was proposed to a Council of 150th legislature of the present but not granted, and has been reassigned with minor adjustments. The proposal suggests that environmental and resource ministers will be assigned to set up a field for government cooperation, land healing, farmers, employment, and the public to increase the share of the public in carbon - healing activities, thus making a national campaign for land healing. As noted earlier, the site for this work will be set up in August 2021. The aim of the proposal is to increase carbon binding, prevent soil erosion, and heal wasteland through increased involvement of the public in land healing. The model for the construction work of Farmers helped to heal the country, farmers' cooperation and land healing projects that have been operating since 1990 and have proved to be a real experience. With increasing environmental awareness and the education of the public, more and more companies have offered customers an opportunity to balance their business with carbon. Job activities in the project may include offering a carbon balance of land - healing business. Thus, the public's involvement would be dual, one directly involved in land healing, under the guidance of land healing, on the other hand, by the balance of their business. The objective of this Parliamentary proposal is to ensure that the climate of the Treaty Treaty of the Government of Jakobsdóttir's daughter Katrín, the climate action program for 2020-2030 as well as the UN's global objectives, No. 13: Climate - related activities. Other international agreements, which could be a factor in meeting them are: the Paris Treaty, the United Nations Convention on Action against desertification, which has been in force in this country since 1996, the International Convention on Biodiversity, validated at the General Assembly in 1994, and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which went into effect here in 1994. Soil is an important resource. It is the foundation of the world's greatest food supply, but soil destruction is one of mankind's greatest threats. The destruction of vegetation and soil has long been a major environmental problem in Iceland. Therefore, the movers suggest that national efforts to achieve land healing have given few countries the opportunity to reduce land use emissions and to promote carbon binding in vegetation and soil.
