ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u1	Borist has a letter from the 9th. Smoke. n., Andrés Ingi Jónsson, dated February 11, 2021, where he is reported to have joined Pirata's council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u2	To answer, Prime Minister, Foreign and Development Minister, travel, industrial, innovation and social and child - care ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u3	Mr. President. If anyone has wondered about the importance of the combination and the need for the government's ability to intervene in a major way, hopefully the uncertainty has now been terminated in the Covid epidemic. Worldwide, governments have taken massive measures to help professional and individual life in an unprecedented way, including Iceland. However, it is equally clear that we are arguing about the emphasis. According to the United States, too little has been spent helping tens of thousands of people who have lost their jobs and are far too little of a plan to create new jobs. Today, 27,000 people are out of work, and according to a survey of the labour market, about half of these people find it difficult to make ends meet. Three groups stand out as different; immigrants, women, and young people. Consider the situation of young people. 42% claim to be in poor spiritual health, and 60% have had to give up medical care in the past six months. All warnings ring, the short-term effects are obvious, but unfortunately the long-term effects are also apparent. The government feels that it is impossible for them to do more than look at priorities. Last year, the fishing fee paid 4.8 billion dollars. It may even speak only when we look at the context. At the same time, seven owners of the largest companies paid for the increase in profits paid in hunting costs and less than 10% of the total business profits. Thinks Ministers of this rate is normal and fair or might be an option to raise hunting costs, at least temporarily, in the light of circumstances, to balance the social burdens?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u4	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for raising a survey published this week about groups who feel that they are having trouble making ends meet. I can agree with that with what. How important it is that we examine in particular what we can do to meet these groups! The government has established that unemployment benefits have been increased by 35% during the vote period just to meet jobseekers. It is also important that we consider what else we can do. I remind you, the tax burden of this group was reduced. And because of what? A senator also brings up young people, as well as young ones, as I would like to remind them of the improvement in child - rearing, which is certainly useful for those who are mostly young. But we need to consider this, and I specifically mention immigrants in this group, which, of course, are most of them also among jobseekers. I think we agree on the importance of our drinking, and I think we agree on the goal that it should be used to level the value that we've been doing in these matters. As for the fishing fees, I'd like to remind you that the change at that price was to extend it. It is true that the production yielded 4.8 billion in recent years. In 2021 it is assumed that the application of 7.5 billion, based on the flow of fishing in 2019 is up to 7.5 billion. This is where I was even. I've been accused of being on the decline in hunting fees, and I'm now supposed to be raising the cost of hunting. Neither appears to be true. What was done was to cancel the hunting fee. Then we can discuss exactly what the ratio should be. But I wondered, " What is it? ' A senator would not agree that it is normal for this fee to follow the products of the companies so that, as well as other seas, as it became 2019, it will enter the state fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u5	Mr. President. First, the highest. At this time of inquiry, a minister asks me if I don't think that should be the result of the rest, I've said here several times that I think the most natural price is due by having the companies offer in this limited resource, and that's certainly what they're supposed to do. However, I ask a minister again if she feels that in view of these circumstances this ratio is reasonable when the companies are shoveling money. We cannot expect a few families in this country to be crushing billions for the use of the limited combined resources of the nation while tens of thousands of people struggle to make ends meet, unable to get medical care, and their children may suffer a lack that will affect them throughout their lives. So I ask again: Is it possible to temporarily raise the rate of hunting and feel the highest? Minister of this proportion, which she certainly decided, is normal?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u6	Mr. President. Hv. A senator links this with measures to help balance society and all the things I listed here are heading in that direction. In fact, I did not mention the health costs, which were common. A senator came in, but during this average period, the health - care costs of people in Iceland will decrease, allowing us to have a couple with other states of the North. A senator has just wanted to direct his aircraft when asked what community type he would like to contribute. Does it really matter to those whose feet are bent? I'll say yes to that. For the hunting fees, by reason of the night. A senator would like to put them in this context, then I thought it was reasonable suggestions we agreed on at the council, where it was decided to contribute 33% of the price of fish production based on calculations and the latest tax returns. The question of course. A senator puts it this way: Is that a fair ratio? Of course, that experience will come to pass. Actually, we're seeing the fishing rate rise 56%, probable 2021, because we're breaking it. [[The president calls.]] I felt this ratio acceptable, and I supported the bill submitted over a year ago or so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u7	A respectable president. One of the precious things in the work of our senators is when we have the opportunity to make use of ballots and to go through our districts and the country. In the last few days, for example, we were visiting the East, as we were. It was especially effective to see and experience the great solidarity in the Southland, how the inhabitants and surrounding rural areas have come together after the great shock and landslides in December. It's amazing how they've tackled it all. It is a God of mildness that no human loss of life has occurred, but the damage to cultural values and the financial cost of the population has not been fully revealed, except that people need to be carefully aware of their spiritual well - being. I would like to encourage the prime minister to follow what the government said about these dramatic events. However, the call was clear, no matter where we arrived, whether in Egls, below the shores, on the landlines, or on the landlines. Transports must be maintained throughout the year. One man described the fact that he took his daughter, who had suffered from head injury, from Egress and was driving 50 minutes to a Ness shop. If severe bleeding had been observed, it would have been necessary to return to Egls and wait for a medical flight or to have a medical flight south. This is a story that we hear over and over again, except that it is natural to have a scan at the Eastern Institute of Health. Transport is very important to the industry. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to two, but I see time is running out. Does it agree with me that we should think further about transport in the East, recognize that we are going to build a specific core? It means that we prioritize on this core. Does she agree with me that we need to aim to keep up with the sheep and the Elisses, i.e. Is it suicide, Ness shop, Eskifjörður and Ellisland and Ellis, that's where it's called a connection? [[The president calls.]] However, I would like to ask the highest. Minister to whether it supports the use of greater power in the community to determine the work structure. In the South, we became aware that there are conflicting opinions about the development of fish farming. [[The president calls.]] Is it not preferable for rural society to get more self - repair in these areas, how did they themselves want to see in their own area? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u8	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for initializing the events of Seyver. Although much work has been done and the government has taken this up several times, we have not yet completed that matter. There may be a few things I would like to mention in this context. These events had a tremendous impact on jobs in Sufficiency, which means that we need to look particularly at how we can support these settlements so that jobs can be started again. Second, the question is, What is it? A senator of spiritual health, and I know that the Institute of Health for the East has been successful in offering emergency help. I was calling for information about how many people had taken advantage of it. We've emphasized this ideal period of support for national mental - health services, and I hope this has been new. Then, of course, it is the above - mentioned superfluous devices, both in the avalanches of Flatty over a year ago, in the Sugandas, and then those landslides. It is important to live up to the decision we made to speed up the project so that it can be done much faster. As for transportation, there is a Celebrity Passage connected to the expansive conflict in the region now in favor of this government. Ax has also been arranged as a cooperative project, and the thought is, of course, to ensure easy transportation within this new united rural society. Hv. A senator asks about connections in the Faraway region, which, of course, is also an important matter, especially because of the problem. A senator mentions the status of a local partner. There's quite a debate about East America, i.e. Faraway, and the Council of Molain, shall end with one company. [[The president calls.]] You can sense that this discussion is actually in the process of starting in both of these communities. I'll be better off finding my country partner in later answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u9	A respectable president. I'd like to stress that I would like an answer about my partner's self-depth rights for the development of fish farms, travel services, or whatever they think is right. Yes, it may well be asked, " What are the members of the southwestern corner of this country wanting to be on deck when it comes to affairs of the country? ' But how important it is that we think of ourselves as one whole, one country! This means that we also need to acknowledge that our needs vary. And when we get there, for example. in the East and always hear -- it's a year from now because it's not the only time we're going there - the same health-replacement wishes, the research of the Agency, the structure of transportation, we're obliged to try to make a vision of the future. I'm particularly glad we're going to highlight a tunnel between Sufjörður and Eglish Place. But we need to think this over the length of time, so I'd like to ask, "Who's the greatest person in the world? " A minister to cohesive so that we really associate health institutions with the National Hospital with other areas in the East? I think it's extremely important, too, to draw older ones into this area to live, live, and thrive.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u10	Mr. President. In fact, with regard to the self-developed community, we are in Iceland with a little more structure than in any other country in the North, where our communities do not have independent income farms like this. We have always put great importance on the independence of our rural society, that they have most to say about their destiny. But at the same time, I'd like to say for the future, it is my opinion that we will see larger and fewer rural communities that will at the same time be able to shape policies for their territory. I am very optimistic that the unity of rural society that we have seen in the East will succeed. I know, as I mentioned earlier, that there has already been a debate about whether this part of the country will end up as a member of the community. Because of what? A senator's request for transportation is the two projects that have been put first because of the very new Mulla Council. Of course, we should be looking for long - term connections. [[The president calls.]] So I'd like to say that although I'm a member of the city of Reykjavík, I've always considered myself a member of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u11	A respectable president. It's kind of two things I want to ask the highest. Department of Social Affairs and Child Affairs. First, how is it that the most recent or two years ago, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Childhood, gave rise to a decline in the quality of the family? It was a standard that was far higher than the minimum wage in the country. It was natural alone that, according to the target of the publication of the Ministry, no Iceland was able to survive the minimum amount. I wish to the highest. Ministers talk a little bit about it. Second, I ask about one thing that I don't realize: I know the highest. Children's and Social Affairs Minister, which spending team is the largest at the household's cost? And if it is, as I now expect him to know, I ask, "Why in the world is the family's cost at housing not included in the Ministry's stipulation Guide? '
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u12	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Inga Sæland for the inquiry. It has been so that the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health, which have been calculated by external sources, has been designed to publish these guidelines. It has not been the Ministry itself to determine the limits of implementation, it is not political decisions, but it has been calculated. And just two years ago, when the straddler set went down, we and I felt very impressed that it was reducing under these circumstances because it did not give an actual picture. The target of implementation is used to guide various decisions made here and there in the administrative system, both in rural areas and in the state. This was on the basis of this reduction at the time that we started work to reexamine the stratosphere, and this work has been carried out. We've been working together even. of the university community and the Institute for Economics. I expect we'll see changes in the combination of the alimony criteria and the factors involved, whether it's normal to take into account more factors, e.g. It's a house-to-house emergency. A senator mentioned. It is of utmost importance that the forwarding criteria prove the real picture, which makes mine out of it. I'm reminded that there was a special press release when we published this highly developed stipulation criteria that dropped two years ago as well as reports that there was a full evidence for a review of its composition. That work is taking place.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u13	Honorable forseti. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I didn't understand what the answer was, except what it means he doesn't have any authority in his ministry, just nothing. There are just some people in town who are now on some committee that will probably not be returned at the highest level. Minister leaves the Ministry. But for fun, for fun, or for fun, for digging games, I'm going to point out that the baseline value now, the base, think, for a family of two or four, a married couple with a car and two children - and let's take note of what is nowhere to live, since they are not expected to be in rent - that the basis of this family is 233,165 k. Although it is typical that they will never need more than 450,000. to support themselves, outside housing. Then I'm going to ask straight from this: The inflation rate is now 4.3%. I expect all of them to be in the palm of the song, these bank experts in the whole administration, to put these 4.3% of the most direct way in raising these criteria, the basis for family performance. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u14	A respectable president. I thought I was pretty clear in my language, but I'll reiterate what I said. We use forwardpoints in many parts of the administration system, both countries and rural areas, and therefore it is important that the structure of the network be in such a way that it forms a more realistic image of what is in question. Hv. A senator gives some testimony, and I can only say what to do. Senator I agree. [[Up front.]] That is why we started this work. However, the combination of the criteria, how it is calculated, what basis is in there - that is the current work. It is not politicians who then make a political decision on which this standard will be held. Rather, we need to make a political decision on how the combination of it works. That's what I said it wasn't working when it got here two years ago. This work is going on because we want to make a forward control point as the most real picture of the situation because it's used by both state and rural society in calculations, extractions, and other factors related to it. [[The president calls.]] So me and what. A senator is only 100% in agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u15	No, not at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u16	Mr. President. On this occasion, I want a direct inquiry to the highest level. Department of Social Affairs as secretary of the labour market. There have been reports in the past few days and weeks of collective agreements or of the social group of Icelandic professional pilots and BlueBird Nordic, or Bluebird as it is known here at home. BlueBird Nordic, as we know the Society in everyday speech, has six cargo planes in Icelandic aircraft. At the beginning of the last year, the Society was sold to Avia Solutions Group in Lithuania, a motherhood with headquarters in Cyprus. A bluebird has now in the middle of a seagullary business revealed all the pilots who work after a collective contract and control artificial contractors, as it is sometimes called, but instead of having equipment and who are not at odds with whether this concept is relevant. The contractors are employed at BlueBird Nordic by Corfair Consultancy, which is not and has never been registered in Iceland's Work Office, as the law suggests. I'd like to ask the highest. Whether he has studied this case or after an incident, the minister will see how the members of the checklist who hear under the secretary's office have handled the case or have considered it. There have been reports and signs.is appeared yesterday in the story of Steindór Ingi Hall, chairman of the FAI Convention to Bluebird. It even says, by permission of the president: ▪ We see another example of the outstandingness of the Bluebird when artificial contractors have to take their rest in Iceland. They are then made to stay in the airport and take their rest in some facility that has been created in the airport... There they rest for up to 36 hours. before they get on the next flight, and during the rest they are not let out of the house. It's called "House Prison." So many words were made by the chairman of the FIA Convention Committee. Of course, they view themselves in a very special way that has grown to this kind of size. I'd like to hear how it looks at the highest. Minister and how the Ministry's Subcommittee has handled matters so far. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u17	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. I've been in touch with the head of the FIA, and this has also been the Ministry, the Ministry, and the service agency, and it's in a relatively good relationship. The situation in this case is identified as the Department of Social Affairs Today's Office for Employment, which already has a role in social subsidiary, which is primarily on the staff and outposts of employees, is now calling for information. We've been in daily contact with these people, and the Agency is calling for information related to the case from the Bluebird. I know that yesterday or today, from Blue Bird to Work Office, I do not know if they are now, but they were expected to arrive before noon, so that the next step in the case could be assessed, whether this is under the supervision of the employment agency or not, and in what ways they will respond. I just agree with what. A senator on the seriousness of this and what is going on here. We appreciate it as very serious. We've had a very good relationship with the members involved, with FIA. I expect that in the next few days, a financial agency will accept the matter for material treatment, but it has simply been calling for information and information in order to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u18	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The secretary's answer is good to know that this matter is being handled firmly at the Ministry's Office. But he knows the highest. A minister of some similar example is described in this article on the subject yesterday? I couldn't find any information against the fact that this arrangement was under way. The description has become that contractors, some called artificial contractors, others call self - employed pilots, an concept that I don't think is in themselves in this world, are in a sort of house arrest during the period of rest that the workers enjoy in this country or need, and are only consistent with rules of flight safety. [[The president calls.]] Do any ministers know similar examples?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u19	A respectable president. The situation of this case is very serious, and thankfully such cases do not come into the table of the employment agency every day. However, not long ago, though it may be similar, it has been linked to another airline, Primara. We take this matter very seriously, what is involved in both the Ministry and the Labour Department. But it is also appropriate to point out that nothing has been referred directly to a social system that has been linked directly to this conversation. We simply have the case to treat. It's a serious matter, it's a serious situation, I agree with it. A member of the council, as well as the news this is coming up, but at the same time, it is only natural that the matter will take its turn in the Labour Office and in the system, and all of this will be taken into consideration. It is the thing that matters in these things, to cause it to smell on them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u20	President. June 15th. By the time the border was opened, the number of new cases in the world was nearly 130,000 a day and was increasing. The last figures say that the number of new cases in the world is just over 300,000 a day, but the number of new ones is dwindling. Fortunately, the ride seems to be beginning to fade away. Then we need to ask ourselves, and the government has to answer, especially because internal infections are almost disappearing while the situation in a foreign land is even worse than when the border was opened last year. We need the answer to the question: When will the reasons for national limitations be gone, and what can governments do to speed things up? Only 4,300 foreign tourists arrived in the country in January, 4,300 a month, compared with over 120,000 usually. There is the risk now after more than four months of strict disease prevention, the risk of a second wave before vaccination is effective. Reports indicate that nearly 200,000 Icelanders will be vaccinated in September, 120,000 in July. It's been four months, the same time we've been dealing with recent waves and preventatives. Should we hold our breath for another four months so we may be able to get 20,000 tourists to our country, or can we do better? Do we have to close our borders further, or can we open the border more up when all the vulnerable and priority groups are vaccinated? If so, when is that to be expected? You see, there is no timeline for future vaccinations to be seen on the tissue vaccines. No perception except vague figures on vaccination in July through September, calculated from the Norwegian figures in the media. It also says that these shipments may be delayed for up to two months. A health minister says that a majority of the people could be vaccinated within the first half of the year, but it is not in July. What is the meaning of the majority of the people, and how does this affect the prevention of disease?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u21	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry, which on the other hand is about forethought in the treatment strategy, either within the country or on the border, and on the basis of vaccinations. Of course, the situation in this country is good today when it comes to the epidemic. We see that the incidence of domestic disease is very good, Iceland is one of a small number of countries in Europe that is green, but the incidence of cross-infection is considerably higher. In fact, we have decided to maintain an unchanged structure on a border to May 1. We will look for a simple screening system for green areas but double screening will stay for red areas and will be considered to allow for the possibility of using a negative PCR test, as in fact all countries, for those in between, i.e. in orange and yellow areas. This is the haphazardity that I hope is going to hold, and of course this is also consistent with the course of vaccinations. Overall, I would like to say that the arrangement we arrived at on the 19th border has certainly proved its value. One of the keys is that we are in this good place now as regards the epidemic within the country, i.e. The structure on the border, which is relatively simple, has been relatively unchanged throughout this time, while we have seen many other countries changing their arrangements, taking restrictions from this country today and the other country tomorrow. That's why I think it's a good system and we're supposed to continue building on it as we expect after May 1. As for the progress of vaccination, we feel that until the end of March we have a vaccine for about 40,000 people, and this is available on the website quoted by the senator. [[The president calls.]] But you're absolutely right. A senator's uncertainty about how a delivery plan will go on in the second quarter, and I'll take a closer look at it in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u22	President. There is a need for clear answers, and this was quite clear; changes in May when it becomes a simple scan, etc. But I wondered, " Where do we have vaccinations and restrictions within the country? ' They're the ones I'm particularly concerned about travel and stuff like that, theater position, e.g. and some other events we're trying to clear up around here. Wouldn't it be good for another study of the spread of antibodies, as was done after the first wave to see how the second wave entered the community and to see the extent of the problem we have with the subsequent vaccination? It should likely matter to us as we consider how the disease and the epidemic go down and what time we can break the boundaries of our country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u23	Mr. President. I just want to finish what I mentioned here on delivery plans. It is reasonable to assume that the shipment of vaccines is substantially increased in the second quarter of the first quarter. We can see that, at least. because they are talking about the loss of Janssen vaccine, hoping to have a European marketing authorisation at the end of this month, may start in the second quarter of the year; Pfizer is increasing its production capacity, except that it is now a Curac vaccine contract. Its delivery is also expected to start in the second quarter. Of course, we've observed the discussion in the European Union, where Ursula Ursula der Leyen's speech in yesterday's speech showed that they had placed so much emphasis on the development of the actual vaccines that the delivery had been made in their plans. And that is the legitimate criticism. At the same time, my expectations exist that this delivery will go considerably faster in the second quarter. And because of what? A senator wants to put this in context of the anti-pyretic measures within the country, Mr. President, when we have completed the vaccination of those whom we call sensitive groups, it may be a significant milestone. Old citizens. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We'll see a significant impact, I think, on the SECs within the country when that group has been vaccinated.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u24	V.E.G. President. I'm gonna take this opportunity and talk to the top. Tourism, industrial and innovation minister of innovation, linking it to foreign investments and the shape of public cluster policy. I think it is totally unmistakably unmistakably that the basis for the development and variety of employment life lies in innovation and is absolutely fundamental to economic growth and improved quality, as we see a very handsome chapter of the Treaty in the beginning of this ideal period of innovation. There have been things that have been done during this ideal period, and we may see it most in donations on the budget, but in proportion it is the case we have increased most, by less than 75%. I've only observed very interesting discussions in the past morning during the morning program, which may include... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Financial and economic ministers have entered that discussion. The executive director of the Industrial Association noted that there was a shortage of action to attract foreign investment. A person would now think that the powerful supporting systems of innovation would be more attractive to foreign investment and better equipped to compete for such projects. Of course, economic trust is of great importance and forethought and political stability, so there are many other factors. The director of an Icelandic agency likes it to a race, and if there's anything that calls for cooperation, it's a new thing. I'd like an entrance to the highest. Minister of innovation and her opinion of these matters.....and a little sum up what has been done... and how they might benefit from this competition. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u25	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry and these questions and for bringing these important issues to the attention and attention. During this terms, we have put great emphasis on innovation in a broad sense, and we have my knowledge of new Covid and a crisis very well to run faster, make decisions faster, and have been very supportive of the actions here at a council for which I am very grateful. We started making policy for Iceland, Iceland's Neo-creation country, in the power of the tin can, but the sequoia has grown quite well if you consider how we have been able to handle issues about the pandemic and the rest of the year. how we have a new creation of these things. We have increased reimbursement for research and development projects, funded the sources of pension funds for investments, made it easier for foreign experts to operate temporarily here on the land, and are putting an end to Kía's funded institutions, which is a new fund of incentives and will fall across the rivers with a private budget of investments in the process of learning innovation. We've increased funding for the Technical Development Fund. We are publishing an ad of incentives for the national settlements where the role of the sponsors is to support innovation in the country and promote employment and valuables based on intelligence, knowledge, and new skills. We're going to call this strength of Loa, and they're going to support pioneers and innovations and structures in the infrastructure of valuables and employment. One of the things we are trying to do is answer the question, "Why do you go, for example? " more money from the Technical Development Fund to the country? This is what we're responding to. So it is also true that in the previous year, the Icelandic pioneers made more funding for themselves than the previous year, over 17 billion, and more parts come from the outside, so it is not so that entering the country is not a foreign capital and foreign investments are not taking place. But I can totally say we have to run faster. That's just the situation. Everyone is competing for these opportunities, for these valuable things, for these new jobs, for new products, to make the world a better place. [[The president calls.]] If we're going to do what we're going to do, we're gonna have to work together strings, and we're gonna have to run faster.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u26	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister of these answers. It's very important to get an administration to the highest level. Minister. The director of the Icelandic Bureau compared it to a race of invitations, and if there's any important teamwork, it's in the innovation. Of course, I'm celebrating the good spring party. This is very important. But on the second question, I was going to enter a government cluster policy. Last year, in March, Congress approved that the minister go to such a job. I think it's important to get information about that position. I think that job must be over. Maybe it'll tell you what's going on. Minister on the expectations of the policy and how it talks to the Neo-creation policy established by the Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u27	Mr. President. That's right, it's a race. I mean, good cooperation with an Icelandic agency, and to make my Ministry, it's very important, and the changes in the Iceland Office are doing the same. Since there is much work to be done for the job, the responsibility is also high there. Of course, this is much cooperation and ongoing work. With regard to cluster policy, it's working very well. I suppose, or I would like to, at least, to enter the council with that direction for discussion next week, which is then one week behind a schedule that is now in the recesses of the system's standards. My policy is that I know very good, very strong. It speaks entirely into innovation policy, scientific and technical policies, and into the policy we've chosen. It is also positive to see how easy it was for a baby to be left in such a good hurry to do so. I like to say that as a community, I feel like I've decided to be a new creation country. [[The president calls.]] We've decided where we want to be strong and where our focus is. Clericalism comes just like a puzzle into that picture. [[The president calls.]] It's about teamwork, and that's exactly what Lóa's doing. In fact, sharing in the field ministry is a cluster of activities, so we are clearly on the right track.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u28	Mr. President. I speak here for that, and in fact, merely, to discuss the issues that will be turned by the Council on this bill. I leave it to others to discuss other aspects of the bill, interesting though they are. I feel that it is both right and duty to the President of the Generals to take part in the fundamental changes proposed here to take place in the state of the Council, especially with regard to the executive authority. These changes all take place in an effort to underscore and further strengthen the Senate's autonomy in their own affairs and to celebrate this change, I'm going to at least First, there is 8 pars. The bill, specifically suggested that the Council of Congress be confined to a constitution. So shall the Ministers have the support or neutrality of the greater part of the Councilis. This is a principle upon which our government commands us. At the same time, it is of interest to recommend a positive definition of the Congress order, that the president may request the General's declaration of support or neutrality to the government before it is formed. For details on the implementation of the Council of Congress, see paragraph 13. The bill of mistrust for a special minister or a government. With these provisions, it is unequivocally taken that the conquistador tradition we have prepared will be confined to a constitution, that is, a government of Congress. Next, I'd like to take part in the terms of the bill that describe how the election is being proclaimed after the election, the meeting day, and the postponement of its activities, cr. Count 12 and 20. The bill. It establishes that the Council itself has custody of these matters. When the wording of the nominal constitution, i.e. 22, 23, and 35. . g., a closer look, opens a window to ancient times and attitudes; a organization that is attributable to the hearing of King Dana and transport in a way that was very different today. That is what the 22nd book says. ... withauthority of the President's permission: The Allied Council is heading for no later than ten weeks for the General Assembly elections. The president regularly appoints the General Assembly each year. That puts you in 23rd degree. The Constitution expects the President of the Republic to postpone General Assembly meeting. However, it usually has the approval of the General Assembly, and whenever the deferral lasts longer than two weeks. But it will be, i.e. At that time, the General didn't gather unless a greater proportion of members of Congress required it or absolutely necessary, in the opinion of the Republic's president, i.e. in practice Prime Minister. An enforcing constitution assumes that, as previously said, it is the formality of the European Parliament and that its discovery is delayed by the coming of the council. The bill we're discussing is now suggested in Article 12. that only the European Commission's involvement in the campaign is that the President of Iceland regroups with the General Assembly elections. This is normal and goes well with it. Similarly, I think it is probable that the President will be invited all the time to Congress, even though he or the Commission will not have to be used by him or to carry out the ministry of the council, but it will be a matter of full concern to the council itself of these changes. Therefore, the European Commission's direct decision on the matter of the Council's preaching work will be primarily symbolic and involved in decision-making. Instead, the council itself postpones its meetings, and the president of the Generals can call a meeting together if necessary. Then it would be related to him if a greater number of members of Congress or government demands it. However, the establishment of governments into such a decision is new in this way but must be considered normal in the light of the Commission's position on the General Assembly and the integration of these power factors. In the context of Section 20. the bill on the meeting day, cr. Thirty-five. the constitution, it's almost determined, i.e. Fourth Tuesday after the election has passed. It is important that the time since the election is no longer longer than the time needed. During this period of time, experience will be considered appropriate, but it will be assumed that the national government will have enough time to publish the final outcome of the General election. Then the council may have to resolve charges that may be about the value of the election and the vote of the individual senators, dealing with the value of individual budgets that have been submitted to the council and preparing the Senate's sentences in other ways, which require proper preparation. It agrees with what the bill shows that it cannot be excluded that a gathering could be met sooner if the situation exists in the community. Rather than suggesting that the General Meeting date be 1st of each year, which can be adjusted by the current law, the bill suggests that the date of a regular General Assembly meeting should be set aside each year by the law and the appointment of it into the legislature. This is a big change that further underscores the individual autonomy of the council to determine his own inner organization. I have some interesting opportunities to plan more for the council in the future, but this would, of course, be a legal subject for a new council. If so, I look to the very timely suggestion of the 21st paragraph. The bill, that bills can live between councils according to the rules established by the Generalate, in their professions, by their own council. This possibility, in my opinion, can have significant significance for the council's work and can help with the careful legalization and the specific recruitment process. Rather than saying an unsolved bill, a large universal review of a law book that has been prepared for a whole Senate winter does not allow time to complete the discussion of time to complete its completion at the end of the council, the possibility of continuing to discuss it without having to repeat its transfer and treatment of all of its new legislatures. As soon as such an arrangement, this possibility, exists between council members, there is a way to prevent certain wastes, it must be carefully arranged in the Parliament's ways of making use of them. Of course, such things should not lead to unnecessary delays and riots. The process might thus be seen to see that a panel with a case on such a stand suggested to the council as a whole that the matter shifts between members of the council and goes under the obligation should be agreed, to complete a job on the next. These things can be done according to the bill further into the council. I think this possibility, well-published, in the years to come, can bring a measure of life to the end of Congress, and it doesn't have to explain why. I'll finally take note of this bill's regulations, i.e. of law 21. ., that, as in other lands, may be a reason. The committee considered just wording and possible further decomposition. I'm primarily in mind, then, whether or not a person wants to leave some part of the constitution of the framework that the Council has to implement a law on this or if he wants to leave it entirely to the Council and then hopefully within each terms. For the rest of the bill's regulations, this is a matter of taking the initiative to cover up the 15th chapter. that governments should be submitted in the name of a government that is actually in line with such matters and should be of great simplicity. Of course, it is the 14th - century suggestion. The bill that the rule of Article 24 is removed. The current constitution that the General Assembly should meet no later than ten weeks after its breach. Instead, the rule of the 20th chapter will be the norm. The bill holds that meetings will be held no later than the fourth Tuesday of the total election. It is also wise to establish the project that prior to taking sides with the President of the United States for a violation of the proposal for Congress, he should seek the opinion of the President of the Generals and members of the Parliament at the General Assembly. This aims to ensure that the council is at the heart of the whole body of prime minister and that this is not to be done if more than one part of the council is available. In other words, the Council will not be broken in disgruntled or opposed to its own will. This further underscores the Constitutional order and is normal in a democratic state by a conniving government, a executional authority that applies to the democratic elected Assembly. This also refers to the prime duty of the council to form a functioning government or to make sure that the country has a government. History abounds with examples of politics, senators, who have successfully formed a new government instead of another one who has died without an election, and then they complete the terms of the term. Therefore, unless the council is first investigated, it is contrary to this role of the Generals to provide the country with a functioning government. This would allow us to move a little closer to the arrangement, the spirit contained in the Norwegian constitution, where the Senate cannot be interrupted and the vote period shortened. It is the duty of the Council to provide the country with the government inexplicable condition throughout the terms of the term. Finally, Mr. President, I would like to mention the suggestion of Article 7. The bill, including a fundamental change in the arrival of the Generals to prepare the decision for the Minister of Justice. Clearly, in many respects we have lived with an ancient organization that is needed to revise them. By strengthening the surveillance role of the General Assembly, which has been made with the laws on research committees and political changes and in many other ways, the emphasis for the future will be on a clear legal basis on the treatment of branch office violations. It is expected that a State Attorney will be charged with such violations instead of the Generals. Otherwise, it is handed over to the Generals to decide whether such cases should be administered to a special court or to a national court in some form, as well as to the rest of the trial. It is clear that this is a matter for the great council and that it should have its own access to its preparation. Mr. President. I have only stopped in my speech the parts of the bill that are relevant to the General Assembly and clearly understood between the sovereignty of the General and the interference of the European Commission for decisions on the way it operates. Hide these terms of the bill as a fundamental change in the position of the Generals as a meeting of the National Committee, strengthens the position of the person to be welcomed, and I am convinced that members of Congress can unite. I wish the Board of Directors and Observers, who are expected to receive this matter for discussion, in their work on the case, and the Committee's full support to do that job well.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u29	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, highest. The chairman of the council, for his speech. I can agree with her many things, but I'm going to mention three factors that I'm not sure I agree with exactly. A senator about. First, I wanted to say that the changes that concern the Council are somewhat more symbolic than that they strengthen the state of the council. Whether this is true in all cases may be relevant, but I think that the changes may be more symbolic than material in all cases, except for one thing that I mention afterward. On the one hand, I would like to mention that, of course, I would not oppose the fact that the Constitution is written into a constitution, but I don't think that there was a major disagreement about the order of Congress in Iceland and that it had been well over 100 years, and that there was not much opinion about it. While we may be taking in and writing the rule of Congress into the text, this does not mean that there is much change. Another thing I wanted to say about the breach. I may be able to get into the Senate rift in my speech later because it takes a little more time to do so. But I just wanted to see that if it was the purpose of the arrangement, it would be to do what I could hear about it. A senator says that unless there was a greater part of the council, there would have to be a clear passage in the text of the law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u30	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the questions. Of course, we can discuss the extent to which symbolic change is involved or directly material when it comes to the state of the council. I think, though, that the whole picture and it will be drawn up by the changes made here in the same direction, as far as I can see, will best be given to underline and strengthen the self - control of the council and the importance of the central role the Council plays in our administration. The Constitution - yes, of course, we have taken it and, in effect, have been in force here, all of us have agreed on, as shown. The constitution. But you might ask yourself, " How strong her situation has been to other factors, such as the breach of assembly! ' That view existed, and some felt that it was the sole right of the prime minister regardless of the will of the council. So I disagree, as I discussed in my talk, and perhaps we will discuss this better in the first place. A senator has reasoned. I feel it is totally default for a council not to break in the middle of the terms, or whenever it is, in disgruntled by its own wish, much of it. The Congress has a clear right to try to restore a functioning government according to its duty and role, but it should not necessarily have an unlimited time and would never have. But throwing the council into opposition to its own will, and it is not even possible to find out whether there is a possibility of another kind of government, or more part, that I don't feel in accordance with the basic standards of the council. The other is so different, and it may be true, that there is a very clear need to live on how this will or attitude of the council will be examined. But I guess we'll have to rely on any leadings we'd like to meet, i.e. The president of the Republic, the president of the Generals and the heads of Congress, would be able to give correct information about the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u31	Mr. President. I'm going to keep the conference rift in another way, but to say that I feel that the law, as it seems today, is going halfway to one direction without reaching its destination. I'd say if someone wanted to do it, as I hear a word out of it. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon wishes, that it is clear that it is only the council itself that has the only chance to complete his period of work by breaking them down in a clear and understandable way. But there are other viewpoints in what I would like to swaddle. Another point that I could not establish in my previous answer was an old idea that here shows that there is some progress in the possibility that Congress matters will survive more than one assembly, i.e. within the terms of time. I can agree with what we read on the basis of the bill, that it may be appropriate for such a decision simply to be made in the Senate, that the Constitution is clear that it is decided by a body of Congress, and it can be made on a certain basis, i.e. how long Congress will live. What I'm worried about in this regard is that, I think, so to speak, it will only be a distraction to a case in the council by doing it this way, possibly instead of needing at the end of each assembly, such as the Supreme Court. The president mentioned, dealing with what cases are complete, and who will not push the problem before the end of the term, so we will stand at an even higher level of dams and greater number of paintings waiting to be paid at that stage. I just wanted to swerve in this regard that I'm not sure that this will lead to a more careful treatment for the situation. I'm not sure that this will lead to further discussions at the council. Sometimes it's just nice to have a bit of zeroing, rethinking, and reevaluating the bills.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u32	Mr. President. Only on the breach, and in fact, in connection with the ceremony of the European Commission, and in saying goodbye to the council again when its discovery has been delayed, with the approval of the council itself. It could be said that this was only a test when it was requested that a meeting be held between Christmas and New Year. The President of Generalis, what could he do? Yes, he could answer only to humans, for it was not in his power. A general assembly itself could not decide that they would meet for a meeting, even if much pressure would arise. It is a procedure for execution during such a condition. I don't think that's appropriate. I don't think it should be like that. In fact, they are not long before the breach. Of course, a person must first answer to the foundation of what organization he or she wants. Aren't we talking about Congress, Congress, Congress? The commission is brought here. Is it not reasonable, then, that there is also a final decision here or that there is evidence to determine whether the situation has disappeared and there is nothing else to do but to choose from here? Then it's just gonna be. About the fact that there's a case between council members. Yes, it may take a little more time to discuss it. I agree with what. A senator that, if opened up, needs to be around with caution. I think it would be wise to think that in the councils, the steps would be taken at first and try. That is why I might see it so, as I thought only in my introduction, that if it is the will of a council member to wish to continue during the next term, such a decision would be submitted, to be submitted to by the General Assembly in general. It may be possible that such a matter can be done only once, only to bring the subject to the next council, and thus to the end. In fact, it is possible to think that following the obligation that this matter should smell at the second council, it should be defined as to what to do with it. It can be called decapitation if they wish. [[The president calls.]] Of course, there is no reason for this to lead to some accumulation, and it is possible to consider whether we should, like the Council of the North, have the possibility of writing a case, if it has become the decision to do nothing more about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u33	President. A little more on the 21st floor. who say that the bill will fall down at the end of the term and not between councils. But there are other matters of Congress, i.e. inquiry, plagiar proposals, file requests, and the like, that could also be heard underneath. Clearly, because we often get involved in the fact that there may be eight or ten questions that will not be completed at each assembly and then have to be submitted again, it is only natural that they will work as they do. Would it not, then, be reasonable to talk about the collapse of a matter at the end of a terms or something like that? Also, I only wanted to talk about this, that it would be healthy, like a boy. paritaprevir The servant Birgir of an Ármannsson mentioned a case again. It would be healthy for the thing to reset it, to reset it, etc. But perhaps there is a problem where we are, in fact, just saying something wrong, e.g. Just with a suggestion to refer it to a government or to reject it on current grounds; that the matter is simply too much or that it needs to be taken into a much more thorough view or something like that, to be pointed forward in a way, that we are more diligent in settling matters from committees for further consideration, payment within the council, instead of maintaining the practice of injuring matters on the committee. After all, the problem is that the committee does not take a case for granted, for discussion, they just keep it, and keep it, instead of simply taking it up and saying: There is no time to resolve this and explain to the president that there will be no program for this council, but perhaps there will be time for the next one or something like it; but to name more matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u34	Mr. President. It may be appropriate to review just that the threshold in preventing a political event from being able to live between members of the council is based on interpretation of 44 C.E. current constitution. It has not been trusted to interpret the wording differently, so it is relevant to each legislature, which says, by permission of a president: No legal bill can be approved until it has been discussed with three conferences at the General Assembly. Most lawyers have agreed that this should be interpreted as a legislature, and there would be no doubt about the constitution if they went into the process of opening up such a possibility in the Senate. I'm not sure that behind it was a determined will at the time. I'm sure this might just have come in to ensure three discussions, but not necessarily that the matter must always be removed at each assembly. Then the question is, How should this and what sort of language these might be? It's about bills, but men might argue that this could apply to more matters - and I've wondered a little bit about them - for example. ... abouta large body of Congress proposals,programms, and so forth. But I hope we agree that this should not be taken into account, more trivial matters. I don't think it would be wise to open the door for this. But, hey. A candidate also mentions an object, such as inquiries to written comments or requests for reports, and that is an excellent suggestion. Why should a report requested in one legislature not be received in the next and still be a matter of Congress, as we know, that it will actually become a verbal report if the request for it has not been renovated? But the main thing in my mind is to pay attention to this and think deeply about it, and I'm thinking about sending a commission to the management and monitoring committee on these factors and then starting work on how this might be settled so that the committee can see not only expressions on this law but also the possible implementation of it in the Senate. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u35	President. We have to face up to the fact that a committee has a certain strategy, if you put it that way. Another strategy, used here at councils, is either for good or for evil, either in a very serious way, because things are being pushed through in a way too fast, or in a very nonverbal way, and each one seems to be doing it. The fact that an committee's sleep disorder is, in my opinion, not very critical in the overall way of considering that cases are all equally set aside in the row of tribunals of certain priorities. But now we find that issues considered to be priorities do not often fit in with committees, and when they do, they may have completed a visitor's arrival, and then it is very difficult to get a case back on the program or a discussion of the committee's opinion or financial deliberation that is to be delayed for all kinds of reasons, which we know we know may also be eatable - they can be perplexing issues, such as the problem, but they can also be very demanding. What I see in this article is that it is getting much more difficult to stretch the tail for an inextricable purpose and to put it to sleep on a committee that I think is positive. Of course, committees are supposed to resolve cases and may only recommend that the committee recommend that the case be referred to a government or only rejected or whatever it is. We're going to do too little by finishing a case. Rather than put them to sleep on a committee just to say that the committee would suggest that this case be rejected. Perhaps a layman or a traveling overseer may withdraw his case instead of making it a vote or something similar. I think we should be a little more creative in the way we handle matters from a committee to make them run out.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u36	Mr. President. In this respect, I can agree with why. A member of the Parliament, of course, is a waste of many acts, of reimbursement after the council and of the day on the committee. But then I would point out that it is not necessarily certain that the officials of the matter were largely able to resolve the issue, much less agree. You see, members of the Parliament present their issues, their special interests, perhaps with reason to believe that there is no great support, that they are relatively alone in this regard. But they want to keep the matter on schedule. They want that discussion. They would like to contribute to a discussion in the community because the matter will be sent to the informed, although it may be unlikely that it will be supported and delivered. The stone's opening and the Senate account have many examples of the gradual beginning of a case that eventually won support and support and finally became legal. I could give you a number of examples. I've probably delivered 11 times a bill of Iceland's peace statements for the nuclear weapons and my brothers two or three more times when I've been a minister. I've been quite aware that this is probably a minority thing, unfortunately, as amazing as it is in a country that claims to be free of nuclear weapons. But since 1986, probably, my brothers and I have held this matter on the program, have been discussing it here, and have introduced it into a foreign - language committee, since it has, unfortunately, not been fully supported until now, and that is not the case. for this purpose. It wasn't necessarily that I had hoped ahead for an advance payment on the case but that I had to keep in mind. We must not forget these factors, too. Of course, the other side is that this can lead to a certain accumulation and accumulation. [[The president calls.]] The only thing I'd come up with in a previous answer was that the matter could be connected to some sort of decapitation or nerd duty at the end.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u37	President. Indeed, it is tempting to continue with this discussion of Article 21. because we're on them. When a committee is being put to sleep, it is the responsibility for their continuation of the program in all cases in the hands of an experienced man. If a manager does not ask for the subject to be scheduled, that's just the way it is. In each case where I discuss the matter of falling asleep in a committee, it is when prominent individuals want things done, want them taken care of a committee, which is being prevented by various means, objective, or not. On those lines, I'll agree to the 21st floor. is an improvement relative to the current situation. Improper reasons for stopping a matter, of general anaesthesia, simply become more difficult as time goes on, a nonverbal vow of days simply up to the point of time because it becomes more obvious and more obvious to unuttered delays. The suggestions we discuss here are just very good. In the 3rd. is e.g. discussed the election period of the president and the limitation that the president will sit for more than two terms in a row. I think it's a good example for a minister, and even for members of Congress, there's a limit to a number of terms for elected agents.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u38	Is this to someone special?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u39	No, this is not directly to any particular person, not at all, but especially to counsellers, I believe, and perhaps the previous advisers who are no longer in the field. This is something that we are constantly learning, that a certain theme has an effect, especially when people are in power. Power simply corrupts, we know it. How much? In fact, no one knows until the person takes over. In general, a safety valve may be determined that there is simply a limit to the number of terms required to control that risk. We have a lot of people out here who can easily take over these jobs, because the people who come in here are just ordinary citizens, as they go and happen. Seven. is being changed because this is a national sentence still in use in one of the northern countries. I find it very interesting to hear the presentation of various current and former ministers who may have been involved in the one national sentence brought together here or possibly making some decisions that might apply to national judgment. They often talk about the fact that a national court is completely impossible, that it is political, etc. And there are solid reasons for this. The only time a national judgment was called together, the members of the council might have been a little more comprehensive in completing that matter in a general way, not in the narrow - minded way, as the beat was struck there. I still believe that the arrangement presented here is clearer, although I agree that a national judgment is necessarily a lost phenomenon, as some would like to think. The court is the arrangement we have now, and in case of a violation of the Ministerial responsibility, we should use national law. He's not worthless, he's totally valid and active in this regard. Well, it's all right correction, but nothing is necessary or on hand. We now have an arrangement that is to deal with violations related to the minister's responsibility and the office of minister. In the 9th. is being added national rights that are good and blessed. In the 10th. is being added to the synopsis of the government meetings, which is also a very good thing. The lack of trust is being explained in Article 13. In the 17th. is added to the declarations of law, general governance, and national rights validated by the state. It adds to the present arrangement and is very good. I was talking about 2-1. Here in return, and only at the beginning of the talk. I think it should apply not only to bill but also to Congress. Congress is actually operating all year round, the entire ideal period of the year. For senators to be able to perform their surveillance role, they should be able to ask questions at any time, therefore, the day before elections, if that is the case. Then we'll come to the 21st floor. It is a firm adjustment, an addition to the present arrangement, and it is only good and blessed. Then we come to three new articles that I would like to discuss mainly, which is the main resource principle. There I run my eyes into the last word of the b-duty. the resources of Iceland's nature. It speaks of a legal exchange for sources for use as a means of profit. When I'm at the highest. The prime minister presented the bill here in the General's symposium sounded a little forward and back in my head. I found this connection with the discussion that has been in society for less than a decade, or more, for a total or normal price. At any rate, it was obvious that if a resource was used for profit, then, of course, the total price should be applicable, otherwise normal. Others may then be able to go to hairs about what is profitable and what is a full price. In fact, it is very clear after all, and nothing so difficult. For a total price, there would be just an auction where there could be a variety of switches, etc., as long as the access would be equal to trying to get into a useful resource for profit. What is it to be a profit? When I have tried to describe that idea to some who have asked them, I have said that the sea resource is clearly new for the benefit of those who practice it. But I have also said that it could also mean freedom from hand hunting. Then people ask: But is it not a means of profit for the sailor who goes to his armboat, hunts, and sells into the market? Yes, indeed, but it's a access to everyone. Everyone has the same access. Bioavailability is not limited to hand fishing, except for a certain period of time, but at that time all have access. The gain of that right - it is, in fact, only the public court, which is also being strengthened by the natural law, i.e. that the public may be allowed to travel through the country and stay there for legitimate purposes, that they must respect nature, etc. The common people have been able to pick up blueberries and such, just each one for themselves, and even put the berries in a can and sell them to someone as it goes and goes on the way you've seen. All right, and how are we gonna do that? - Maybe we should finish the home-infestation bill so that people are not technically inclined to cheat on taxes and the like. It would be very good to see that it would be a little clearer too. - But there's the equal access to the resource. It was not until the government decided to limit access to a specific resource, for the benefit of those who come to the advantage of others beyond what was required of them in terms of total pay. There I see an opportunity to stop this argument, which has been about whether it should be a total fee or a natural fee. Both sides are right. A normal fee can be interpreted as setting the quathane and receiving the market price, which in that case is the normal price. However, it is also good to be clear that in such cases there should be a sufficient price so that we are not able to squeeze out of these definitions into all these technicalities - how can I put it politely? - way, how to handle that language in the classic political sense, how to turn what else should be obvious. I'll try to keep it that way. I feel that there is an opportunity to add to the resource directive the words found in the bill of the Board of Government, that when a fee is issued for profit-efficiency, it would be done against a total currency to a certain moderate amount of time. Then I think we're just pretty good at that. There may be details around here, and where there may be no supervillain. It's mostly this argument about a natural fee or a total price that has actually taken over, I think, that the Constitution is updated. If we can cross this speed inhibition, I think we're pretty good for the rest of our lives. Of course, I do not view this bill as fulfilling the decision of the National Order that we should present a bill to a new constitution based on the Council of Governments. This is part of it. We still have to meet the results of that national law. If this is approved, it'll simply be shorter. But we haven't finished the decision of the National Code, and that's something we should do. Given the whole process so far, in the past decade, I think it might be interesting to see if we can achieve some common sense of how -- we can simply have a natural fee for the use of resources in the national property in general and when governments decide specifically to limit access to resources for profit use, it is with a total price. I think everyone should agree that the arrangement should be that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u40	Mr. President. There are some things in this bill that I'm going to mention here at 1st. Before I tore off some articles, I would like to state that I do not have a comment on the type of work that is at the highest level. The prime minister has given up on this matter. I support the approach that has been made, that individual chapters should be handled, and I try to achieve as far as the highest solidarity of the events is concerned. As we know, there is a lack of solidarity among the chairmans of the changes presented here. So the bill is all over the top. One prime minister, and it can be said that there is some uncertainty as to how the matter will be handled. Of course, in such a situation, there is no group and no senator in the position of claiming to be bound by supporting the bill as it is presented. Regarding the details that are difficult to deal with on the bill, I have set aside the right to maintain my view of the factors and to mention some of the points in this discussion. Actually, I've written about this before. In an article in the Morning Press last week, I mention some factors, perhaps not all of the points I consider to mention, but none of them. During the discussion last summer, I also made some comments to a particular point, and in some respects I will mention those points here, but I have to come to other points later. In terms of the term, it's my feeling, and it's rather increasing than the other, that in that section, or in the part of the bill facing the change of I. and II. section of the constitution, changes are being made to a considerable extent that no special need is needed, but there are some factors that might be left unrouted. In this context, before I begin to mention isolated articles, I would say that the criticism that has been shown, in discussions during previous councils and in previous election periods, regarding this section of the Constitution has been a significant factor in the fact that the wording of the regulations did not reflect the praxize, not the reality as it was, and that it in itself was in itself indistinguishable that the president had various requirements for certain tasks, which were actually taken by other regulations. It refers primarily to the rules that involve the President's irresponsibility of administrative activities, that the president has his authority made by a minister, and that ministers are responsible for all government projects. Actually, it's not supposed to be a complicated thing. Although in other places it is said that the president does the other, and this may be said that this law, on the one hand, involves a minister's authority and then that ministers are responsible for all and the president is irresponsible, it should be quite obvious that in these cases it should be quite obvious that it is the Minister who has the real authority rather than the president and the president's appearance is formal and not material. This shouldn't be complicated. On the other hand, this may be a little vague when it comes to making the point that the president should not sign any form of government or use himself to do so. I say, if, in connection with the preparation of this bill, it was intended to correct this factor or to correct this misunderstanding, we are not necessarily in port. Then we are simply in position to stand in the Constitution of laws where the president is entrusted with various tasks, but it is still in force to make the President irresponsible by the ceremony, that the president has the Minister's authority carried out, and the Ministers are responsible for their administrations. If the bill leader was going to explain these factors, I would say it didn't work. When for that reason, I must express deep doubts about the bill in this regard. The change, perhaps at the root of a head's inspection, has not been successful. That's what I wanted to say in general. Now, I believe, and it's all right to say that there will be a change in the Presidential Times, it should be clear that if a president at any other time has any access to the ceremony, it's just formal and not material authority. If a person wants to go further, the president can be written out on such grounds so that it is clear that the highest hand force in which it is tested is in the hands of a minister rather than a president. But that's enough. Let me give you a few other things. Time is limited, so I have to cover a pretty fast story. Just to mention a few things I make comments about, now let go of what I'm comfortable with. I have to say that there are some changes in this that I don't make any comments and that I can do well, actually nothing necessarily of the fundamental factors that are moving to better than things that are all right to change. But if I come to the critical points, and make it known that in a short talk, I must go very quickly over the matter; then I will pause at the law of Second pars. ... ofthePresidentstyle. I think it's time to change the number of references, and I might even go further than the bill in making a requirement for a number of references. But with what's set here, you can live. However, I will not agree with the priorities suggested there, which, in fact, wasn't in the bill for consultation, but a doll dolled up much later, and I believe that is unnecessary. There's no need for a priority approach. If the council felt that it was in some way necessary or important to move more behind a sitting president, I think it would be more natural and more appropriate and clean to do so by two traffic. It would be more clean to do so by two traffic, rather than by a so - called priorities method. Many words can be said about this, but I think there's something else wrong with people choosing for one office by seating men, two or three, or something like that. I think the danger is that we get the President who is the lowest addition than someone who is more of the voters want to support that office. But then I just want to say that such methods aimed at moving the majority of willingness behind the president, of course, indicate that the Presidency is a great government, but, of course, it is not. Even if these suggestions are made, that is not the case. I feel that with this kind of training in these matters, it is necessary to put up with the office's proposal and also with the experience we have of being elected by the prime of the republics, which in some cases have yielded that the president is elected without having more of a share behind him than generally a rather successful choice in the long term. We can do all kinds of exercises in mind as to whether any elections in the past would have been different if these methods had been used. I say, I just feel like I'm just changing things that don't need to be changed. There is no special need for change. The same applies to the terms of the season. To extend the terms from four years to six is in itself a matter of taste rather than that there is some science behind that conclusion. I don't see that there's a problem with the terms being four years, so you don't have to extend it to six, but in itself, no one is particularly damaged by it. However, I must declare opposition to the change that the terms of the terms can be two consecutive times. There are rules around us, the United States, France, even more countries, where the Presidency is very powerful, where it is restricted that one man can serve such a high office for too long. Such circumstances do not fit in any way in this country. There is a rule to prevent power compression in one person because such a risk is not at hand due to other factors. Now I'm still gonna have to spit in and jump in an 8. that discuss the formation of government. It is all right to fulfill the first part of the law. However, I wondered what says in the conclusion of the law, which speaks of the permission of a president to request a resolution made by the General for support or neutrality before a new government is formed. There is a thought, something about the so - called positive Senate, where a new government needs to go for the council's commission. Yet, not all of this is being accomplished. Who should come to the council and propose a proposal for the government, how to handle it at the council, etc.? I feel like there's an idea there that's being raised without molding it, without completing it, and I would express a lot of doubt about it at this point. Next time I'll stop at 10. The Article of Regulation, which states that the prime minister oversees the work and policy of the government, and coordinates the action of a secretary if necessary. Some would say that this is what the prime minister today did and should do. The question is, Why must this be stated in the constitution? Why does this need to be in the Constitution text? I doubt that, and I also doubt what the report says on this subject, referred to in the 2011 Constitution, which I say was opposed; I was opposed to many of the changes that were then determined. Following a policy established by the 2011 Constitution, I am more than easily affected, so it is said. At the end, so that I still run over a story, I wanted to make comments on matters relating to work management, i.e. when it comes to work here that it can only do what is necessary, I think people are making a gray area. Today, the government has the same authority as any government. A minister in the management board has the same administrative authority and the same responsibility as the secretary of the staff in time. It's creating some unnecessary uncertainty, I think. [[The president calls.]] Then the president starts knocking, so I probably have to talk about the breach in a later speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u41	President. Hv. In the opening section of his talk, a senator spoke a little bit about him, how the present arrangement should be clear, but if not, he did not. What we have seen is that the president takes the authority that is clearly expressed in certain articles without regard to other factors, such as. To reject legislation. This article could be understood so that if a minister rejects law, he will have the authority of the President in the same way as in other articles refer to national pay. As a matter of fact, the president can reject a breach made by the president. Why is it not in full custody to apply it according to the current constitution and according to the words used and divorced in its context? The Senator said that this bill did not produce the results of explaining these disorders in the Presidential chapter but did not give any specific examples of how, where the inconsistencies were. It seemed to me that there was a lack of speech. A senator who does not fully understand the laws found here are inaccurate. In case of a moment. A senator could review it a little, then it would be appreciated. Finally, in last year's answer at least: Hv. A senator would rather take two rounds than priorities, but priorities are a very well - known method for saving two rounds and a set of costs and such matters as the campaign. On the other hand, the question may be, Would it not be advisable to use the guidelines we have and know and are used in many parts of the world to save us money? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u42	Mr. President. First, short of the last: I can live with the regulations as it is today regarding the Qualification. I see no reason to change that. If, in some way, you want to force the majority of political support, it is my opinion that it is better to do so by two traffic than by priorities. I think the voter's decision is different when they face two options than when they're sorting men one, two, three, four, or something like that. I think, and I mentioned in my speech initially, that this could lead to some kind of negative choice of being rejected by the rest and these presidents, and end up with the lowest equivalents, someone that no one is probably excited about, and no one in particular supports. I think that's the danger of the priorities. There's another thing you should know. A senator mentioned them was trying to put that thought into words, and I'm sure I haven't made it clear enough that the reasons for changing the chapter were that this aspect had to be explained on the other hand, where the president has said some authority, and so on, when these powers are actually taken from him by other regulations, such as the irresponsibility of the president, the responsibility of the administration, and that the president has allowed his authority to be carried out by a minister. That contradiction, if you want to look at it, remains with this bill in many matters. So I don't think the bill has achieved its purpose in this regard. Then I can agree or disagree. A senator on how to handle this. But I'm saying, if you don't deal with the contradiction of the presidency, I don't see any particular reason to deal with this section.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u43	President. I'm no closer to what's going on. A senator feels that the President's section of this bill is inexplicable. That's what I was asking about. I may have my ideas about how the wording in these suggestions is blurred, but I didn't hear any examples of what would be blurred in the bill from below. A senator, and I'll call for it. About how the President is elected, and why. A senator says that he just wants to have it as it is today, we'll know, of course, what problems are with that sort of campaign and speaking system, that only the person who gets most votes will be president. There are very clear examples of how none of the most popular presidents can win many other popularitys, which are very high on the list of votes, but the votes spread between the number. If the only person working would be opposed to each of the other candidates, he would lose in all cases, and the solution to that is just priorities. Hv. A senator says that the decision - making process changes, being different when it is just a choice between two, but a decision - making process can even change after an election. Take it, for example. Bbifit. When it became clear that Baltrexit was cut down, the race was up to and up, because nobody expected it, and people would therefore have wanted to vote again. In view of the polls, the result would have been different, for there were some who just didn't believe that the case would be canceled and therefore would not be at an ideal place. It's certainly unfortunate, and that's the rules, that those who attend the votes and votes are valid. But what I'm saying is that the voter's choice can change, vary at different times, and the priority method is a good way to promote will. Yes, as before, that opinion can change after the outcome of the election, and people want to vote over and like it, but I'm trying to get the rule of how one candidate in general, who has little support in the community, can get a vote beyond anyone else who is popular. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u44	Mr. President. About the last show, I'm just saying, "If you think so, like "wow." paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, that it is a problem that someone can qualify as president with a smaller part of the vote, I think that the step must be taken to the full and get two rounds, so people simply stand before choosing between the two that most votes get in their previous course or something like that. I don't think it's necessary, but if people think it's urgent, I'll choose a two-pass system rather than a priority system. The second thing I couldn't come up with in my first response was the comparison between the President's Penitentiary and the 26th paragraph. and then a possible President's ruling authority on some other activity in which his signature is required. There's a big difference. Now I'm not going to go into the old debates that history has made absolutely unnecessary. We do not need to wonder whether the President's right to be with him or to minister. Experience has shown us the results in this regard. But there is a difference between the tribunal power and the 26th paragraph. and then to another potential president's wishes, sign a constitution, as it is assigned under the constitution, in Article 26. it provides a clear rule that the president can deny confirmation and that this has certain consequences. In other words, it is assumed that certain developments will begin if the president is denied. That doesn't apply if the president, e.g. refuse to sign an order to an official or refuse to sign a contract with a foreign state or something like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u45	A respectable president. Butterflys are the most beautiful when they get to fly. While I practice all the discussions in the council as well as in the Constitution, and I'm interested in the fact that the discussion is perfunctory, I can't put into words and mention the sad events of this case from the beginning. Many things have been presented in this material discussion, and I agree that there are many good changes to make the Presidential Book. However, it is my opinion that the subject has been over the last eight, nine years. Many of us may well conclude that with this bill it is taking a big step toward changing in the right direction, but I believe that men should also strive to reach the pulse of those who have spent nine years fighting for it - the excuse, the respectable president, over eight years - be followed and the democratic conclusion that they have reached in the national pay on 21 October 2012. The key point is that the nation is the constitutionr. Very recently, 43,000 people added their name to a challenge to the prime minister to respect the results of this national law. I'd like to inform the United Nations that in those words, a large group of people are planning more initiatives around this subject, seminaries, more events, including with the prospect of making this our next election case, whether we like it or not and no matter how much we like it, the bill that is now being discussed in the conference hall. These people mean it, a respectable president. In the fall of this year, the commission to the government is renewed, and I see this: It is as if the bill of a board of directors is a beautiful butterfly that crawled from the cloth of the beautiful career that the public so strong that as the constitutionr, and now it has been crammed up onto a pinball and dropped behind the glass, which is now a sad and inanimate place here at the General Assembly. I look forward to seeing the bill proposed by the Board of Directors to give life, largely, in the next term.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u46	Mr. President. Discussion of the Republic's constitution is not new. From a republicary institution, people have had opinions on key issues and have wondered whether the Constitution served its original purpose, whether new goals were timely, or whether everything should go through some form of overall review. Of course, new times call for new attitudes and attitudes that may have seemed to be self - determination some decades ago out - of - date. Even yesterday's projects are out - of - date, and perhaps more for historians to consider than for prospective 21st century people. Here's the bill we're dealing with. The bill's at the top. Prime Minister, and I think it is important to say that it does not come from the blue. It doesn't spring from anything. This is determined by a large amount of work done in the Ministry led by the highest authorities. Ministers, although the landing is the case, as it has been before, that it is the highest. One prime minister makes the point. I mentioned the job that's been in it. There have been a number of meetings during the election season, 25 meetings with all the presidents, and a great deal has been discussed on the outside. A lot of discussions have been made about the fact that little work is going on, and the project is insurmountable. But just think: Is it reasonable to think that changing a constitution will be relatively reasonable and easy or that it will be a task of nature to be difficult, well prepared, and much to talk about? I agree to the second opinion, i.e. that a constitution is so fundamental that we can hardly change it any other than the fact that much discussion has been made and that it is a relatively broad community conversation. In some cases, it has been compared to changing an entire constitution on one board to eating an elephant in one piece. Although this illustration may be somewhat unusual, I think it is that it is as if it could be, in any way, that it would be reasonable to try to set down the project, cut it into parts so that we can really solve some part of it, and then move on. It seems to me that's what we're doing in this bill. There are steps, very specific steps, and important steps that take us in the way, which give us principles that are truly important. On the one hand, it is such a law. 2.m. That's the north side. " Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, came in earlier, and I can actually say everything he said. The regulations directed to the council are explained, and many are greatly improved. Then there's a set of regulations for the President of Iceland that I believe to be reasonable, and finally, three new laws, which have been discussed, namely, by men. Natural protection regulations, resource regulations, and regulations of the Icelandic language I think all these provisions are of great value, and I think it matters that they are being discussed here at the council. I think it's absolutely essential that members of the Parliament set themselves up for taking a material discussion about these matters, not in the form, but in the pursuit of material discussions, because the General Assembly of Iceland has this task. It is the International Parliament's job to accept the Constitution, discuss it, and settle it. If we just take matters like the resource, that's what humans have been discussing from 1982 or about or even longer. [[Take it up: "Long. "]] But I think that was first discussed in 1982 as a matter of Congress, if I recall correctly. It's a good time, and, of course, it's been put into words earlier. Well, at least I'm sorry. The time has come for us to try to face that discussion, either simply by rejecting these changes or by making those offered in some way better ways. In itself, this cannot be excluded. The panel finds a different conclusion about wording, but the contents become basically what they are. The same is true of the resource directive, it has been discussed for a long time. Someone put it here the other day that although a matter had been discussed for a long time, it would not be that the discussion was over. Of course not. Yet, a person must take the material discussion and try to reach some conclusion. Let us see that within a resource directive, all resources must be filled, i.e. the resources we envision today, which we as a community are using today, and as well as those that the future society will use, or find, or realize are resources. Therefore, in many respects, it is a requirement offered here in my opinion that is better than many of those previously laid down. Remuneration divorce is very important, and the exchange divorce rate for profit is even more important. As a community, we have decided long ago that we are not going to allow the most acute market policy on the use of all resources. What about the hot water, what about the electricity, to name two examples? What about the cold water? It's all resources. These are highly valued resources in Iceland's nature, and I've at least assumed that there was a reasonably good partnership in Iceland that these resources should not be sold at the highest possible price. At least that's all I've been aware of. However, other views may apply to other resources that are used primarily for employment, and it is important that the Constitution does not place a stone in the lawgiver's path in determining the type of currency to be used, and it can also change from time to time. So I think it's very important that we deal with this and land it. I think maybe that's the main thing. There's a very interesting law about the President of Iceland. I find it challenging to wonder about the so-called priorities of an elected president, where it will be guaranteed that the one who will eventually be elected will have at least in any support of half of those who vote, interesting. I think it's a very interesting approach, and this is done in more countries. This is to be done in elections for Senate in some states of the United States and, if I recall correctly, in Ireland's Presidential elections and beyond doubt. I don't have a particular disagreement about setting a time limit for how many times the President of Iceland can volunteer but I feel that the terms will be six years. It puts in my mind a little different blood on that office than e.g. A vote for the Generals, or for the council, which I believe is fine. I agree, too, that it is long time to take in what is going to be 81. par., or c-joints 22r. the bill, about Icelandic and Icelandic languages as the language of those who rely on it to express it. I think it's important that we as a nation, with this little language, little language and a small language area, put it at least Somewhere in the form of words, we as a nation are really going to protect our tongue and support it. That's important. A respectable president. I look forward to the work that will be carried out on the board of administration and monitoring. I sincerely hope that the committee glanced and tore seriously the views that have been presented in the discussions here at the council, viewed and ripped down the views that appear in the reviews, and then returned to the council, or this hall, a bill that is at a good chance that men can get together. I feel that we owe not only this council that such work is going on but that we owe the whole nation some effort in completing these constitutions. Time has to be revealed whether a person achieves a solidarity over all the bill or part of it, but the main point is that we have started this work. Let us move forward in earnest and face challenges at the council. Then, as I mentioned earlier, you can continue to eat down the elephant.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u47	Mr. President. I have always felt that the Constitution should be adjusted in moderation and modesty. This is where the Constitution itself is, and is the way here is becoming unusual. I'll find out more about it from now on. What, though, is the change in constitution? Yes, it is all human works, and the emphasis and demands of the legal government can change. Hence, it is normal to consider a change in the constitution. But at the same time, it is important not to create a trial by overthrowing, as it were, the condemned by the courts under the guidance of the Supreme Court. Sadly, we have not had the wisdom to continue in a well - defined process of reconciliation. In fact, the administration procedure to be followed was overlooked. Since then, we have had to endure our slogans, even extreme discussions about this foundation of our Icelanders. Often this has been followed by a discussion that even borders on people's hearts and unfounded statements by people who find it hard to accept working on the case according to the one proper formula of the Constitution. And you ask: Can they be trusted with a new constitution if they don't respect the old ones better? As we know, the Supreme Court invalidated the election to the Council. As a result, the then government decided to appoint a administrative body based on the election for a government council. The decision of a administrative body was to deviate from the process of reviewing the republic's constitutions based on points of high solidarity that have undergone a thorough inspection but that are not under way under criticism. A administrative committee that won the data for the administrative council worked under law No. 90/2010. She worked in a spirit of calmness and a way to adjust changes. The committee was even. ... toprovide ideas for a administrative body to a changed constitution when it came together. It seems that a board of directors decided to look past the specialist's work and accept a type of text that was hard to throw away. Scholars then pointed to an internal inconsistencies between the proposals for administration, including the Council of Government. It's up to the Venice Committee. Thus, the process was actually taken over by those who seem to have had limited knowledge of the project. Should we lay down that work as a foundation, a work that is now being promoted in the social debate, and then even advertised in graffiti around town? Skúli Magnússon, a regional judge and judge at the University of Iceland, wrote a fine article on the Constitution in the middle of October. There he pointed out, by permission of the president: In September 2017, according to the recent MMR poll, more than half of the Icelanders want a new constitution, and when these words are written, nearly 39,000 have participated in the registration of the Constitution. This will be no different than the considerable demand for a complete review of the Constitution, as such review has been made in one way or another on the strategy of all the national governments of Iceland since 2009. Once again, however, there seems to be a lack of solidarity among members of the nation for what to change and even for how to change. Then Skúli Magnússon gives strong evidence of a new constitution when he says, by permission of a president: It must be considered a health sign in a democracies community that something is solved whether and how to change the basic laws of the land. But can we still not agree to call things the right names and stop speaking or singing about the Constitution of the country as a temporary document from the Dana? And furthermore, Skúli says: The Constitution, as it has developed since 1874 to our day, is much less Danish than the sausages of the South American Warrants, is of Vienna. Mr. President. Of course, it is rather a peculiar conclusion that changes in the Constitution, the core of the Icelandic administration directive, are now being made in the form of a Senate bill, a bill submitted by the highest standard. The prime minister after the failure of an agreement between party parties. The danger is obvious, however, that the development of the bill for the Council for the next few weeks and a month, unfortunately, will smell political horse purchases, where each will contribute to the buttholes, as per. It may be asked if such an important matter is acceptable under the Constitution itself. In the fall of this year, a collection of signatures was launched on the board to put pressure on the Constitution to be approved, a case that has hung over us, as it were. The educational community has had considerable doubts about the constitution of the Council. Many have come to criticize the work of a governmental adviser. This is how Gunnar Helgi Kristinsson, a professor of political studies at the University of Iceland, said that the work of a government council is an uncertain journey. And he says that much more radical change is being proposed than there is a reason. The professor presents a metaphor for a shopping tour, where all the unusual things in the store can be bought, then put in the shopping basket, and then never wonder if it would all be raw for a good meal. A number of directors agree with this. In fact, the Icelandic educational community has opposed this, and it feels that the bill promotes justice. It is absurd to claim that the people approved the constitution of the Council of Government. The national agreement was merely a counselor. 79th. The constitution, the one we follow until it's approved, is given how to change the constitution. It does not say that counsel can make such changes. A general council is responsible for changes. The changes must be agreed twice at the General Assembly. It is reason to ask yourself: " What changes can be made in the constitution? If we consider what our neighboring nations have been doing, we can see that the rights of the human rights have become more important, and there have been other aspects of the rights of the environment. The last change in our constitution in 1995 turned to the human rights section, but the question is, Is it enough? The extent to which to ensure social rights in a constitution has always been political inexorably. The 2007 Commission report on the European Commission shows that there are rare reports on the Constitution of resource maintenance, treatment and development of resources. Looking especially at the northern regions, it can be noted that Norway has improved over the past few years and decades to update human rights, freedom of expression, and environmental protection. In Sweden the king was taken to the fore as no part of the task force. In Finland, a full reexamination was conducted in which the human rights team was updated, the Council was promoted, and the authority of the president was reduced. While this may be a problem with the way some people want to go on this land, many feel that it is a solution to support the role of the president, thus securing a better three - way analysis of the authority. Then they expect the president to be elected more than to ensure that he or she will probably have doubled the vote. In addition to human rights, various practitioners have been promoted. Thus, in many parts of the world monitoring has been made that law conforms to a constitution has been extended. In many countries special governmental courts have set up a German example. In addition, such monitoring has been made clear in the Norwegian court, as well as the Constitutional changes in Finland and Sweden and a change in judicial action in Denmark. In part, it may be said that a judicial hearing was changing here, but hardly in such a decisive way that it could be called a constitution. It may be more solidly supported in a new constitution. It is worth saying, then, that a growing international cooperation has called for directional changes. Thus a provision has been made to allow the office of the State to meet certain criteria. Part of this is that some countries have sought ways to promote the legislation, including in light of loss of effect in the face of the European Union. More important, many have sought ways to increase the democratic influence of the common people. It has been a complicated task, but it is safe to say that a clear will has come into existence in the Constitution, as is now being called by the public at the solemn moment when a new constitution is being worked. Clearly, the section on the resource bill is most of that section in terms of management and adaptation. It seems to me that this is a reasonable approach to an important conversation on this big project. The proposal to protect nature raises questions and, in effect, create an uncertainty and confusion in my view, as when we consider the common responsibility for protecting nature. In the law, which would be 79 C.E. It would be approved by the constitution, in fact. that everyone has the right to a healthy environment. This, of course, sounds good, but can we ask, " Is this really practical? ' Is it not similar to what we would say that everyone has the right to get the best health care care based on modern technology? But what about those who live e.g. to hang in Reykjavík? Are they not entitled to wholesome environments? Sedation is thought to be the greatest health problem in the country. How will Reykjavík react to this law? This is a requirement to be placed in a constitution that can have significant influence. I'm going to take you to the city of Reykjavík, e.g. You don't have a car ride in the city when there's a danger of hovering? So, there are many things that are not known about my judgment. A set of songs about the Icelandic language is good, and I'm glad to hear it. It would be a wish that the government would look to that text now that it weighed to the Icelandic language in my opinion on human names. I'm especially celebrating the 21st floor. The bill, that the Council can decide to change the current rule that the bills will collapse at the end of each legislature council. Mr. President. In the end, I want to say something important about this matter in 1 Corinthians. ... awrong.: The way here is beginning to change our constitution, our basic laws, is unusual. I don't think this way, going on the councilman bill, is in our neighboring countries. A project like this will have to be done fully. However, that is not the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u48	A respectable president. Our neighbors use the term'scroll' for their constitutions, basic laws, which well highlights the nature of this document, to be the basis for all laws in the country, and thus for our relationship with each other. In other words, it's a social agreement. When we make a covenant, we don't have it so that I come to someone and say, "Now we're going to make a covenant between us, and we're gonna make it like this, sign it here, just trust me. I consulted people who really know a lot about this, and it's a very tricky thing, trust me. - No, this is the Republic of Iceland or, so we use even more solemn words, these are our commandments that make up this community. This is the highest law of the country and the foundation of the Icelandic government. This is the instrument that ensures all of us a measure of human rights and defines our obligation to our fellow citizens and to us and the duties of the State to us. This involves all of us, and thus all of us need to come into the covenant of this community, knowing that it is made with consciousness and will, as far as possible, and through us. Of course, there are many complex technical solutions and counts of the actual process that must be handled by help and through those who are involved in the daily interpretation and enforcing of the law. However, it is fundamental that the Constitution is not a matter of personal law. It's about all of us. Commandments. Yeah, that's a big word, Highkot. Sometimes you feel that some believe that the current constitution is like the stone tablets Móse brought down from Mount Sinai, an unsettled document made by gods and his officers. It's some kind of thinking we can see, for example. on the sculpture of Kristján IX.. to the Board of Directors. His Majesty, King Danmerk, Vindur and Gauta, and now all else, extend this document to us. Here, my children, this is my piece of paper for you. The Father - Given Freedom Record, the Reverend Matthías, handed this rod from the mild fatherly hand of one who is considered to be a special agent of Almighty God and with his approval, and according to the ideology of the endemic and established monarchy long after the formalization of the monarchy. It was Danish power, no matter what compared to SS sausages. However, 1944's officials recognized the need for temporary and revision. You can even see it. well in a fine article as the current president of Iceland, Guðni Th. Jóhannesson, who wrote during his historic years, is entitled 'Counseled to one night', where he runs a well - organized application of the 1944 Constitution. The article noted that in general, officials viewed this as a preliminary document that would need a revision. The claim was very strong for national unity, and it was decided to change as little as possible from the Danish constitution that had been here since 1920 and since 1874. Since then, numerous committees have carried out the task, unique chapters, and articles have been revised, making the most of the phase of human rights that is good. Well, the complete reexamination has not been successful. In that story, a chapter in the reign of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir began a process that still began to submerged. The election was for a administrative body in a highly democratic election, where the whole country was a single district and each man had one vote regardless of his home country's location. A number of interested individuals volunteered for this assignment, and they were successful in selecting representatives from different areas of the community that worked together in exemplary ways. The Government's Council won proposals for the Council's Regulation in 2011-2012, followed by the General Assembly of a holistic bill, which was continued at hand. The Council Board of Directors and Observers. Then, in the spring of 2013, she presented a full - costume commission, followed by a legislature of national regulations with a striking result. Two-thirds of the voters wanted to put the bill in order for a new constitution. As a result, Icelandic rulers were scratching their heads to try to figure out how to avoid the national willingness that was presented there. The idea was originally that a government council or a government law order would operate in three storms at intervals. Then it would have come together again after the work of an administration and monitoring committee and taking into account the Venice Commission's comments and experts in this country. If it had been done, this democratic process would have been kept alive, the conversation of the common people, players in the Constitution, elected agents with a democratic commission for the job, and such as the natural law and government philosophy, to preserve the Mosaic Law of this document. I would like to, Mr. President, do mine and emphasize what is said in the book of the Convergence and Pirata, which follows the highest bill. Prime Minister, with permission of the president: First, the journey is partly to the point. A constitution that will develop in an open, democratic manner - a manner that is remembered as dependent on traditional class politics and power interests - and in the investigation of its own citizens, with the possibilities of their direct involvement, is much more likely to enjoy trust and respect and to become a real object of society than the one that results from the closed meetings of presidents of political parties and in the work of officials in councils. I think it's important to keep it in order and honor it. This will be our constitution, not their constitution. This will be the Constitution of the people, prepared according to some baseline values determined to bring about the Council of Government at civil meetings. It guided the distribution of power, transparency, and responsibility. They were then guided by the entire chapter of the governing body's bill, from Genesis to Revelation. ., of the republic's government, and of the President's decision for the distribution of power to rural and national parties, to a national law on national environ ment, and thus to continue. Which is: We consider ourselves to be a society that has a certain baseline value, and we are going to make a covenant with us where the baseline values are guided. However, the current constitution is far from the constitution of the people. It comes from a Danish monarchy, it's up from 1874, and then it's 1920. It has been responded to and made all the necessary improvements in the absence of them. Such a constitution is not complete and does not have the complete thinking as a constitution written in a democratic process from the start. In fact, this could refer to the overused analogy to the underappreciated butts. It is a very clever and effective method of delinquency, and it has been mistakenly used in a complex illustration. It would have been important to keep living in this remarkable process that has brought attention to many parts of the world and to bring the Constitution to its conclusion by saying off to the new administration scheme to continue their work, continue cooperation and consultation with the general public and specialists to fully shape the entire new constitution of our Icelanders, since the journey is partly toward the goal. This matter is becoming like the journey that was never gone, which was a short story after the Sigurður of Nordalur, which one was made to read in school, or perhaps, rather, the journey that was on and was then stopped.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u49	Mr. President. I thought that was it. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson was going to use the reference to Ferdin without a promise. That would have been fitting, in view of his second emphasis. Now, we're not necessarily discussing a bill here based on the proposals of a government law. In fact, that bill was moved by the representatives of the United States and Pirata earlier in the fall, as it has been delivered several times before. Just as a review was done in 2012, this adviser was a national rage. She agreed that the question was, Should a bill be brought at a council meeting based on a proposal by a board of directors? This did not include a decision on the outcome end, clearly stated, both here at the Parliaments and actually at the ultimatum itself, that after such a bill had been moved around like other primes in the council; it might change, it could be agreed and it might be canceled. As this approach was in 2012, it did not bind people's hands to anything but to transport bill based on legal proposals. Let's leave it. What I feel, however, is a reason to respond in speech. A senator is the key to the current constitution. I agree with what. For a senator to know that the current constitution is not like the tables Móses brought down from Mount Sinai, unchangeable or some kind of message from the almighty power not to be mixed, as the current constitution has taken a major change over time, not only during the time of Iceland's reign, but also at the time of the republical period when a greater portion of the current constitution has been changed from 1944 to eight traffic. Thus, it is not as if they were viewed as being unchanging.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u50	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I certainly spent some time discussing governance and what came out of the work of a administrative body. In fact, we Group members of the Conspira and Pirata have proposed a change to the bill we address here on the resource principle that remains from the work of the administration and monitoring committee to the proposals of the Council of Government. I kept this up because it's the way I'd wanted to see it. I would have liked to honor the process that had started in my time. Hv. A senator turned his attention to a tax adviser who has not yet responded adequately. At what? A senator was getting the sense that he was unfounded and finds no reason to react specifically to the outcome of that national law, and I think most people are aware. However, in comparison and review, it can be noted that the U.S. National Order of Baltrexit was a similar national agreement and was also a adviser of national regulations. But it never occurred to anyone in that country to ignore the results of that national pay no matter how foolish they thought they were.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u51	I'm sorry, Mr President forgot a moment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u52	Mr. President. I'm sorry to interrupt the President. He was writing a statement here or something like that. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] - But for the advice of what? paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Andri, son of Thorsson, I wanted to say that the wording of the question asked in the U.S.A. was not a coincidence in the fall of 2012. It asked: Do you want the proposals of the Council to be laid down? - It's not a basis for a new constitution. Everyone realized that it could not be the word, but a bill to a new constitution and to state that such a bill would then receive the regular treatment that the bills normally get here. That means they can change. They can come forward, or they can die, either by a vote or in some other way like a dog. Senators know. In other words, everyone realized that this national agreement, the adviser of national regulations, was not an endpoint of anything or anything but a factor in a process. This was even clear on the part of those who fought for this national decree. In case of a moment. A senator can take the time to examine the discussion at that time, the committee and so on, and he will understand, of course, that this was a matter of action, of some process, that did nothing beyond what was presented at that time. [[Up front.]] There was nothing beyond that, in any way or in any other way, and there was no reason to act as if there were actually some command from Mount Sinai that cannot be changed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u53	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yes, I realize that this was a part of the process, and it was kind of the input of my speech that here has been a process that is still receding, and I believe to hold on and to follow this process. I spoke of it in my speech that after the results of the national law came, counsellors were scratching their heads about how they could do it not. But I honestly didn't have an idea flight to figure it out, or I didn't have enough sense to figure it out, like a dog. A senator pointed out that it was in a wording, built into the wording of the question itself that it had to be ignored. I've believed that people in general would like to see the results of a national agreement, would like to respect what is presented in the National Code, but obviously not everyone shares that view with me.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u54	Mr. President. We are here discussing an important and effective attempt to draw forward the changes in the constitution. This, of course, is in accordance with existing laws or arrangements for change as mentioned in the Constitution. I'd like to discuss three, four things, I don't know if they've been so involved in these discussions, but I'd like to start with the public court. The proposal now laid out makes public rights as true and as right - size property rights. People remain free for legitimate purposes if they walk well and respect the interests of landowners. That's what I want as an outsider I'd like to see in the constitution. It's called nationalisations, which I suspect many foreigners are aware that there are people so large in community. I think that's very good. It also refers to national parks, whether one or more, and makes it much easier for us to think about the laws and the social rights that come to mind. It is also true that the environment, although not a living creature, is correct. Although the journey is free, we set rules and standards for them and respect the rest of the laws of the Supreme Court. Prime Minister, i.e. for sustainability and tolerability. If we want sustainability, we respect endurance. Of course, they need to be defined and shown that they are there and are gay. But we respect sustainability, and we respect boundaries. It's all for improvement. I'll be at the President's office just a little bit. It may be sanctified because I have only come to that office in a special way. There are significant changes, some of which may not be profound, but many suggested, and the chapter that has been changed to reflect more valid rights and then changes in materials where public and legal views or scholarly coverage have revealed a certain defect. I'm gonna go over a few things lightly. The season is longer than six years, which is really intense in my spirit. When I was thinking of offering, and so on. I talked about sitting for two terms that were then eight years, so I think one or two terms long six years is just enough time for a president to make his roses for the nation. Also to increase the number of references, it is very important to do so. In a way, you will review some of the attempts made to use elections or offers to advertise basic views that have very little foundation among the people in the shelter of a relatively small number of observers and are very old if checked. Then there is the President's authority to cancel the prosecution and give the remainder, which I consider good. A requirement for ordering officials is in accordance with the principle that professional viewpoints should handle orders for public office. Then there's no law, we call it irresponsibility, legal irresponsibility, decommissioned, and confined instead to official activities made up of proposals and responsibilities of a minister. Then there is a law on the formation and role of the government, which is made in harmony with years of implementation and tradition in the land. And what may be of utmost importance here, the president of the Generals and the heads of Congress must consult before he takes his stand on the proposal for a breach in the matter of Congress. It has to do with the council's attitude on this progress. The court of paint, the controversial, and that some people consider an important president's right, 26 par. There's a lot of reexamination waiting for you. That is why, though, is that if the president does not sign or complete his affairs in five days, i.e. 16th Okay, then the bill goes back to the council. It's just a few things. I could add others, e.g. I find this priorities interesting to me at the Presidency proposed there. It's simply because I haven't defined a president as some cohesion symbol, I've always had a very difficult time saying that word. I think it's so sentimental, I'm afraid to say, that I didn't want to take it into my mouth. I have in my most intimate language the President defined as the national representative of the nation into and out. This is a representative of all of us, and this is an international representative of Iceland. Of course it's also true, but the president's divorce is that when he explains the people's cause, he is not offering his opinion of it but rather the prevailing opinion and even the opinion of my parts. He does not have an independent foreign policy, as has been said at times. Rather, he recognizes the attitude of Icelanders on countless issues, both dominant and the controversy or debates or the position of others involved in each case. I wanted to make this happen here with the President because I really think it was a good way to make changes in this long and great chapter of the constitution. I would like to agree with your constitution on a matter of Congress. President of the Parliament, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. I'd like to link it to the concept of autonomy, first of all, Congress's suicide. We know that Iceland's suicide is a lot. We really have unlimited freedom of speech, can talk here forever in certain cases, have tremendous freedom of offer and freedom of speech in the council. There's more than 1,000 languages in one council. Hv. The audience can imagine how it will work out within 34 weeks or so. Of course, this has to do with a number of members of the council who are actually 52, and they do that work for the most part, so you sometimes start thinking out loud for members of Congress. But, of course, it's not a constitution that I'm here to point out. It's a political program. But I'll connect it directly. Since members of Parliament have great self - sufficiency, the council has self - sufficiency. It means being able to operate on the breach at times. I've mentioned before that I strongly support a version of the conference violation that it is very clear who is responsible there. These are my main points, Mr. President, this time. I support this attempt to improve the constitution, in order that all groups of members of the council could not be restored to some other version of this change. Whatever will be done over the next few years to review, or even rebuild, the constitution or at least Part of it, we have progress ahead of us if these suggestions are made at the council. We then know the process, breaking a council there, and implementing a new election, as the Constitution says. This process began with work at the Constitution, with the Council of Government, and then in the government of Prime Minister Sigurðardóttir, having its own peculiarity, to say no more, but I'm not going to join them here. I simply say, the experiment now is fully defending, fully designed to correct the defects of the constitution. It is fully in accordance with the aim of the modern - day Icelandic constitution, although it will eventually be in step or step. Finally, Mr. President, I'd like to quote a word I heard falling. I can't apply them to somebody. A senator, I have forgotten, but I wrote a speech that somehow was: the Constitution is the Constitution of the nation, not the Generals, with no emphasis. It seemed like a very strange sentence to me. This was kind of an empty word play that I don't really know why they put it. This is in line with a certain populism, such a popular game, because we can totally turn this thing up on the laws of the country. If it is the people's law, is it not the people's law? No matter what the Generals will do, whether this legal way is being carried out by the Council or by a law-enforcement agent, there can be no difference between the Council and the people except if the General Assembly is breaking the law. Those were my last words, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u55	Mr. President. We are not discussing popular language when it comes to the Constitution. It's one of the most important laws in the country, the groundwork that gathers us together, that makes us even. To a nation. While the public may not be well acquainted with the constitution, from word to word, there is respect, a appeal to the Constitution. Trust in her must be considerable and must be undisputed. The Constitution, however elected, is not the Generals' private affairs. I don't agree with what. paritaprevir Ari stalwart Guðmundsson, the nation, the common people, to this constitution. These are unique laws. The opportunity we now have to create a new constitution with a broad and democratic involvement is unique. The experiment now made, with the change and motion of the highest. The prime minister she puts forth as a senator is a fine price, but it is not enough, and the struggle will continue. Mr. President. A number of committees of members and presidents of political groups have considered reviews of the individual chapters and articles of the Constitution, but a total review has not been achieved. Of course, the longest part of this material was, of course, able to win the Council of Control in 2011-2012. The Council gave the General Assembly a panorama bill to the Constitution. The Parliament's Commission and review board won the proposal and presented as a full January 2013 Committee for Commission Review. Despite the fact that two-thirds of the voters in the U.S. National Bank wanted to establish a bill that a new constitution could not handle the matter at Congress. The generals did not trust to support that great issue. Now, a respectable president, we have arrived to discuss prime minister's bill on the change of constitution, a suggestion in that case. The first thing I want to say is that many of the changes in the Constitution are positive, such as the nature protection principle, which is a great step towards progress and, in general, the proposals of a board. Then there's the resource problem, which I'd like to do a little bit. In the bill at the highest. Prime Minister has proposed an article on natural resources in Iceland. That resource directive is overdosed by our assessment in the Conspiracy and would be established and sanctified in a constitution of unacceptable distribution warrants. This is far too extensive a resource directive that does not guarantee temporary, or at great risk, distribution of resources, nor is there always due to national use. The provision of resources that the nation agreed on to place in the Constitution states that there should be an equal amount of use for the total price. You ask yourself, " Is this resource policy more concerned with maintaining peace within the government than with providing the nation with a system of resources that brings peace and harmony? ' The reasoning survey conducted in the process at this time did not ask for a resource directive. However, there is evidence of voters'position, which can be read from the 2012 Guided National Syllabics. The proposals of a board of directors are for temporary releases. Two-thirds of the voters wanted to lay them out. Of course, the proposal should be for discussion. It must be possible to talk about water resources at the same time. A faulty fishing system has made it possible for a few individuals to take on enormous wealth, which they then have new in order to increase their influence in all ways in Icelandic society, with the result that they have taken over a lot of things in banks, insurance companies, day - to - day stores, rent markets, in the media, even the Namibs. Is that normal? Is it acceptable when, all of us, our community, are struggling to maintain good service in all areas, from the cradle to the grave, whether by means of transportation, education, or health care? The answer is no. Mr. President. Only a few families have gathered to themselves the resources that even go on genetics as if they were property. Of course, this is not their property. This is the property of all of us, the people of the nation. Therefore, this is important, and therefore time-separation requirements must be made clear. The granting of untimely accounts is not to be seen by the prime minister's regulations, and does not guarantee that the owner of the resources, all the people, will find the natural gain of his property by legitimate remuneration. It's gonna be a very aggressive thing now that we hear reports of survival and how the making of these arrangements leads to success. It is clear that such an article cannot be supported as it appears, as unfortunately it is not likely to create an agreement on the resource directive and to create an agreement on the sector to have neither the time tie nor the guarantee of a full payment. You ask yourself, " Why isn't it the same as crossing the sea resources and crossing resources like energy resources and others that don't belong to many of us? ' We can debate whether the time tie should be 10, 15 or 20 years. In fact, it is secondary, but in a constitution it is minimal to ensure that the temporary distribution of validations is temporary, as laid down in legal legislation. Those who have closely observed the battle for a new constitution do not realize that one of the main reasons for opposition to it is that it has authority as a valid constitution that has led to political involvement but would now be moved to the common people. Of course, one of these main reasons is the resource directive. Mr. President. Now these suggestions need to be considered in the processing of the committee, and hopefully they can be discussed in the context of the bill based on the proposal of a board of governance. That's at least It is clear that significant changes must take place on the resource scale if we equal people are to support it. Concluding in this great issue, this major issue on access to the nation's most valuable resource, can only be removed from these private rights and priorities as sources. In fact, Mr. President, there is now a conflict between the nation and the United States of Congress on power and resources. With the nation in both sides, the alliance is fighting with full force.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u56	Mr. President. I'd like to be on course for you, sir. paritaprevir Brjánsson of the Constitution. Because he is now known for his thoughtful and grammatical presentation, I would like to cast it here to the point. Councilmen, sir. A member of the United Nations is a member of the Constitution that appeared in the fall, and in the past, where a valid constitution, the Republic's Constitution, which we call, is subjected to a calm and introduce to all a new constitution if this was approved. Now has a pack of whales. A senator sees the roots of the Aegean Party. I realize that this is a new category of people, but the category defines itself as an international bison, if properly understood, and is to form a member of a member of the council of the Northern Union. So I wanted to let myself ask you what. A senator, Mr. President, whether he knows the example of the Norwegian Socialist Party, which is why, as a member of the European Union, in times of peace, has been as radical as the overthrow of the current constitution of Western democracy and is taking up a completely new document as a constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u57	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur son of Ísleifsson for his counter-sponsion. We're here dealing with big and big cases, changes in constitution, and as I mentioned in my speech, I think changes in constitution are not a popular language and that we should take it slow. However, we have taken the lead in general, not making fundamental changes to the Constitution of the Republic Institute. We were given an opportunity for prime minister and the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir to settle over this matter. It was accepted as a process, a very democratic, unique process, that looks to us in many parts of the world and in the work we consider to be in, that we are in a process that is still under way. I think it's historic in the past. No nation has been confronted with what we are doing now, I don't think it's what I know best. That makes it quite unique. We inherited this constitution, and we are required to make our own constitution unscrupulous and bold. She's in for a suggestion, and we're supposed to work from her.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u58	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. It can be eliminated in a number of ways. Of course, it's just a matter of time before. A senator said that it would certainly be historic if, in times of peace, a Western democracy were to do what is suggested and what is to be done. Councilmen of the United States, and indeed other classes, have made their suggestion here, overthrowing the current constitution and viewing a valid constitution to some extent as not ours, as I think it is. A senator said so. The Democratic Constitution was naturally adopted with a vote of 1944, of 95% in the National Code of 98% of the nation's population. Since then, significant changes in the constitution have been made. What has been marked by the change is that a major policy has been made in a broad and broad agreement at the General Assembly. But there is no peace with the proposal made by members of Congress. A senator and others have submitted. That is why I would like to ask him if he is really pleased with the procedure to suggest a change in the constitution of the Constitution, which is basically disfellowshipped from the Icelandic tradition that I would like to allow me to say that power has been made, that the changes in the constitution are determined, and that there are widespread cooperations on a broad scale. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u59	Mr. President. Thank you. Second and second man's answer. It is true, though I am not a historical man, that our constitution, which we are basically living in, although many changes were made through the republics, was, of course, accepted with an overwhelming majority. But it was supposed to be a shorter solution. The unit was about to go into making our good constitution at the first convenient, but it's been delayed for a long time. Whether this is the right time and whether it is a unique, irresponsible, or irresponsible time to overthrow the Constitution in a time of peace, I do not know. You know, there's a lot of people here that makes this tradition that they want to change the constitution into something huge. It was cool to appoint government laws, the process of reconciliation. It was cool to go to a national law. That came true. Then came the proposal into the council and found its way to a rocky path. Perhaps it is optimistic that such dramatic changes are made in enormous terms. That may be unrealistic. But this constitution that we deal with, the proposal that has come from a government law - they say that the current constitution is not being overthrown but that it is being updated. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u60	Mr. President. I was going to have a place to say. paritaprevir Brjánsson about the bill that is being discussed here today, but because he didn't bring it up in his speech, I'm going to discuss other aspects of my counter-reguage. First, I'd like to mention, because he turned aside from the administrative modification process that began in the reign of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, that it was very controversial. Most of the factors involved were very controversial. It is true to recall that despite the fact that in certain religious legends and maybe in the United States, things are different, it was one of the world's thanks from start to end. It even appeared. in the 2010 administrative election, the smallest campaign in the entire Icelandic history was 37% of voters chosen. There was a mess. Then there were problems with the project, and the vote was deemed illegal by the Supreme Court. Six Supreme Court judges jointly concluded that the vote was invalid. At that time, a highly controversial procedure at the council was made up of governmental advisers. It was also carried out in a very controversial national law, a very controversial, which, in my opinion, did not satisfy anyone's demands for a national agreement, but we can go over it on a long time ago. The campaign program was less than half; campaign participation in other national regulations during the republican season has been much greater. Then, in the spring of 2013, the whole process ended. There are many ways of drawing it up, but describing it as some good process that has been settled is a very wrong description.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u61	Mr. President. Thanks for the answer. Hv. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson farm is in his mess, a fleshpiece of slowness and cross fences in connection with all changes in this important matter, the constitution. He minimizes the remarkable process that has taken place in the development of a new constitution and believes that it was controversial. That's right. There were many who set their foot for it. Yet, this was especially the case in narrow credits. If I recall correctly, it was primarily one political party. The small involvement in the national law is correct, it was lower than that, but there's nothing to say that it wasn't significant, and according to statistics it was completely complete. The votes were made invalid. Was that sound reasoning? I understand it was even. because the panels between the sanctimonious rooms were too thin.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u62	The seats were traceable.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u63	Come on, keep it tight. A senator with the numbers, telecommunications services, don't change, hold on to this, hold on to the old constitution, no change. We're talking about power.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u64	Mr. President. Hv. Of course, a senator can accuse me of cross - fence conduct, and I will be glad that he has done something to delay the proposal of a adviser. It has, however, been based on grammatical factors and criticism of its components. People can come here and talk about fences and things like that, but that doesn't make any difference because they have to base their case on facts, not on standards, e.g. on the constitution. And because of what? A senator was recalling that we were building some Danish constitution and such, and I'm going over the same thing I went over with a member of my team. A senator, the Guðmundur of Andri Thorsson, earlier: The Constitution that Iceland received 1874 was changed all air while Iceland was still a kingdom. After Iceland became a republic, the Constitution has changed eight times and more of the rules of the constitution that are now being passed. Today, people may feel that it is not a major change, that changing more than half of the constitution is not a major change but a small one. You may think so. However, the Constitution has been changed to very important and significant aspects, since Iceland was still a kingdom and then when Iceland becomes an ideal state. In 1920 and 1932, significant changes are made both. Then there are some 1944s, and since 1944 there are eight different changes to the Constitution, 47 or 48, I can't remember, in the republic Times, 80 different articles. That's quite a change. I believe that these changes can continue, but the taking of the moods from A to Z, and the twisting is totally unprovoked to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u65	The president understands the urgency of the council to appear on the platform, but they are expected to wait for a presentation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u66	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The year's Birgir Ármannsson for the second answer and the rebuke. I want to make it clear to you that I'm not accusing you of anything. A senator on a transfector.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u67	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u68	Hv. A senator is just as he is made, and I think that his reputation will be primarily to speak against all changes in our old out-of-date constitution. As I mentioned in my speech, this battle between interested persons, the public, those who want a new constitution and want a modern constitution and a growing security for the public and their interests, will continue. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. A senator is well - equipped with gods in so many ways as to lie down on the rivers with forces that are not natural in charge of law and praise.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u69	What are you pointing at?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u70	I'm implying the power and impact of community interest groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u71	V.E.G. President. In fact, on a meeting board - I was going to go out of my way because I think there are a lot of things to be totally opposed to in the proposals of a administration board and some other proposals different from being a member of some stakeholders or helping other interests. And I find that kind of accusation completely different, so I wait. A senator is here to apologize for his words.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u72	Mr. President. I just want to say a few words in this relationship. I allow me to state that much of the country's largest sectors are linked to one political party. Other than that, I'm not accusing you. A member of the Parliament on the relationship with this industry rather apologized to him if he has understood it in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u73	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for if he's not accusing me of something personally. On the other hand, I would like to say that even if there was no resource advice on how to handle it, I would have liked to see them end up in the trash anyway, due to a number of other factors. [[Let's see.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u74	President. There's been a lot of this here, not everything, an excellent discussion that may have been about the bill that's being discussed, but that's all right. I'm going to improve and discuss virtually nothing about the bill being discussed. I'm just going to take advantage of the position on the Constitution, having been interested in it since I was a young university student in history, and having this platform to review these matters as they see me. The old and out - of - date constitution has been widely referred to here and quoted by high - sounding protests and poems. The Constitution 1874 is based in part on the 1871 Code. The years after the first Icelandic constitution arrived in 1874 are marked by such an arggress in Icelandic politics that there are probably no other examples in history. Senators were trapped in how to continue working with the constitution, what should be done for the next step in an independent struggle, how to proceed with this matter. Does this description sound familiar to you? - where high protests were made dead, and the speakers let the demurrers rage. I'd like to quote. paritaprevir This is Santa's Sveinsson Benedikt, with permission from the President, who deals with his proposal to do what should be done toward greater independence. ▪ This effort is the breath of the inseminated ethnic group, the effort of the nation's spirit to breathe freely, its efforts to make it possible, that it should be overcome in a spiritual sense, and that physical person can develop freely. These efforts, from our side of the world, are so necessary that they are surely essential to life for the spiritized people. It's beautiful, but this chain of the Allied Parliament and Iceland's Woods, moved in beautiful words, certainly, but quarrels, screws for years, ten, fifteen years. At the turn of the century, the wisdom that changes, continues. At home administration 1904, what do we get? Home administration, Icelandic Minister. When the Icelanders got enough of the propeller and said, "Hey, guys, let's move on, let's do something." The Republic of 1918 followed. If I go for a big one, next we're going to 1944, President? It has been said of the Republic Constitution, the National Remuneration, even of the great unity that was achieved about it. Yes, there was one mind at that vote, and the propaganda for the Constitution was such that today all international institutions would give it a function. With President's permission, the morning paper said: ▪ No Icelander can sit at home in the vote [...] Every voter in the country will be able to solve his citizenship on the day of election and vote under the Republic's Constitution. In the West, it said: ▪ We must not defile the memory of our forefathers and the honour of our own by forgetting our duty in this fateful hour. One man swam against this current, our former colleague here, standing still. paritaprevir Hannibal Valdimarsson. He urged voters to accept the breakups but to lower the Republic's Institute and Constitution. He felt that she needed to fix things better and better than that. How was it? A senator taken? I'm going, Mr. President, by his permission to quote Isensibility, I'm not even going to mention him, but this is in print when Hannibal Valdimarsson spoke for the Constitution: During this most remarkable turning point in their lives, many simple and shortsighted souls of their fellow citizens succeeded in turning against the Republic's establishment. He was called blind little men, nightcaps, cannibals, filth, head of stone, and spiritual dross. By permission of the President: Surely our mother, the mountain lady, would weep over such filth and traitors. That's what they said publicly about what happened. ... therewasa senator, Hannibal Valdimarsson. Again, the ideals were so rich and so clear and so beautiful, and presented, yes, fine language, though foul language, but could not be looked above the ashn. The breakup was adopted by 99.5% of the paid votes in the Constitution and the Constitution of 98.3%. Then there have been changes in the constitution, which has been attributed to the case of others. Congress officials do not have to review it, make adjustments. The 1995 human rights article is the biggest change. There were other changes that might have changed. I have certain opinions about the constitution that I am sure all members do not share with me, but I listen to the way people talk and do the work to do it. Then we come to a administrative body, the National Court's Office on the Constitution, to which we agree, the legislature of the U.S. National Code: Do you want the proposals of the Council to be presented to a fundamental bill for a new constitution? We don't have to review it otherwise, Mr. President, but to mention that nobody involved in a national law payment in October 2012 was going to be left in doubt that an overall package was not being chosen. Total packages were not selected. It was always their will that the paying of the national law made it possible for them to be a mere part of a much longer process, a fundamental factor. Five other questions were you asked the people if they wanted to do this and meet in the constitution, which would have been completely forbidden to ask if there had been a choice for a complete package. What did the commission that prepared the National Remuneration Act agree to be written on the market? Yes, by permission of the President: Since the Constitution has been changed, a bill is submitted at the General Assembly. It is discussed with three discussions and can change in the case of the council. If the bill is approved, the General Assembly will interrupt and vote for a new assembly. The bill will then be submitted and the approval of the Generals will remain valid after the president's confirmation. The Council of Government has given the General proposal to the bill of a new constitution. If it is presented as a bill at the General Assembly, it will receive the treatment described. This was specifically stated in connection with this vote. It was always meant for the case to go to the treatment it did and it was not yet completed. Therefore, I give nothing for a sacred statement that something was betrayed in a national fee, especially by people who do not respect all the questions of the National Court. There is now this assembly, and it did in several others, the Senate case of several senators to go against the will of the Constitution and separate state and church that the nation agreed on in the 2012 National Code that should not do, that should be a national church. But is it not only natural for members of Congress to offer that bill? Of course, it is only natural that members of Congress would want to touch it, those who do not want state and church to be one, that it is a national church, just as it is natural for other members of the council to give basic details. The prime minister has now done so. This is where we have a big, big bill, normal. It's about our constitution. There are significant changes in this. People have such opinions, likes to have these regulations, the other principles queer. I've heard most talk about the need for some of the things listed here into a constitution, some kind of resource policy, environment, Icelandic language, etc., how the president's section will be. I have thought that we were able to discuss it well now, even though we may not have spoken about it today. Everything's fine. But we are here at the beginning of the controversy treatment described in 2012 to be attended, and I was reading earlier with the permission of a president. This matter then goes to the point. Board of Directors and Follow-up Committee. There we will work on this, listen to the viewpoints presented here, and act on it as we have been assigned, to the work we're doing here. I will not approach this assignment like a most sacred duty that has to live in beautiful, lofty words. On the contrary, I will approach it like any other project that we have to resolve in, put our heads behind us, and work together. Otherwise, this discussion will be here, and it will now be reviewed by another historic senator after a hundred years, as I have considered a discussion that the Sveinsson of Benedikt, U.S., participated in at the end of the last century.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u75	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to say that I didn't have letters when I saw prime minister's bill, and I'm also not sure that it expected it. It contains many things that I find unnecessary, and I don't explain much, and there are other things that are harmless, as well as things that are bad. However, it is very nice to be able to participate in a discussion on the Constitution, and I think it would be very good if most people listened to this discussion. I don't know if listening is a lot of people, I hope so, and especially to listen to me. [[The point is, not anymore.]] [[To the point: Everyone is listening.]] What happens, and it's quite remarkable that when the banks collapse in 2008, the Constitutions again. It was not only that the public thought that the collapse was an a specialist phenomenon and that we had a home - to - house problem but that it was also the constitution to teach. Suddenly, the Constitution will be the main talk. Since 2009, I must admit that I have just suffered the pain of this discussion. It's been torture for me, and I'm sure more. First of all, there are so many false stories in the discussion. There's some misunderstandings, there's wrong moves, and there's a straight way out of here. If we go through it all together, then the debate begins that the collapse is the constitution to blame, which is naturally complete nonsense, that the Constitution that is in force was just a temporary constitution. It was not temporary, although it had to be reviewed, that, of course, this had happened a little quickly, and it would have to be revised. But no one was talking about total review and some new system. You have to find out what constitution is. Why do we have a constitution? Why do the rest of the North countries have laws they call "Birdov"? Sorry, it was Danish, Mr. President. [[The point is, I don't think so. Wasn't that Norwegian?]] Blend. But what's to be in this record? What is this document about? Of course, it's about what government order we're going to have in this country. That's what it's all about. Other than that, the Constitution is in my mind because we are in the present, which was not so concerned about them, about the rights of our citizens, our basic rights to governments. That's a constitution to me. Of course, I watched all this discussion after 2009. One distorted view of the constitution in force is that it has never been changed. It has now been shown in the conversation in the hall today that she has been changed a lot. We didn't change the national government, but the constitution has been changed. Perhaps more of the rules have been changed. Besides, there are two very big changes; important changes in the human rights phase, in 1995, if I recall correctly; and changes in the steady state votes of 1999. These two major changes were led by the Independence Party, which is accused of not wanting to change anything or anything. There's only one more misdemeanor. In this discussion, in part in the community itself, people have argued that in 2012 the nation has adopted a new constitution. Hv. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé just crossed it just before me that it was part of some particular process. But at the time, it was clear to everyone that this new constitution was not being chosen for exactly this new constitution. That was never possible. Everybody knows the process isn't like that. Yet, this is still true in the discussion, and the claim is constant. It's an endless mix-up, and I don't like it very much. It is also claimed that the process around a government law was some particularly democratic process. Of course not. It began with a vote for some administrative council, where hundreds of people were running, and the last 25 people received most votes. The person who received most votes in the Council of Government received fewer votes than I in the 2012 Independence Party Qualification Committee. There was no democratic commission that each member of the Constitution had. Then the vote ended with an illegal judgment. At that time, these unsupervised people were taken into the administration board. It has said that it was a compromise, that each one received something for his own good. Then we bring this document and say, "This is the nation's will. This is a great democracy. We have betrayed the nation, passed by national will. I have to say, I don't give much for such a vote and such a journey at the same time that the nation is in a state of great shock, is struggling with great problems, and someone has convinced them that the Constitution is the prime writer. Then eight years later they return, saying, "This is still the nation's will. No, we can do much better than that. And I'm not against change. It's not a problem with my mind that it looks like it is now, but I would have liked to see the points that we've been having problems with. I've always said, "The President needs to be explained more. " I've also been tormented by every election, and they're all very painful, that candidates are each with their noses trying to define what authority the President has. This is unacceptable, and we need to deal with it clearly. Is the president irresponsible about any ceremony, or isn't he? And if he is not anywhere, let it be clearly mentioned. What really is his authority? Is there any material power at all? How should we react if a new president arrives and says, "I'm not going to sign this ceremony? Then they say to him, "Wait, you are irresponsible. It's a minister who's responsible for this. This is his responsibility, and this is his decision. - No, I'm not signing, I'm against it. - What happens then? I want to answer that. The answer is given regarding rejecting the laws of the law, but in other respects they do not. We need to deal with this in a clear way. I have to say so too, and I agree with what. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, that the nation's cohesive symbol, is a very royal example to me. I don't think I've liked being president of the United States. Of course, it's just an extension of what we call cohesion symbols that are usually kings and queens. If the president is not meant in our administration to have material power, he is unnecessary to me, unless he is some kind of cohesion symbol. Instead of having a king or a queen, we regularly vote for our cohesion symbol. I'm not interested in that. I don't want to be part of some popular election. I know I'm in part in this, and I don't demand that we change this and take the President out, but I'm going to help. Because we talk about how out - of - date some are, I think this is out of date. I also find the monarchy, which men call to the foreign people, by permission of the president, totally out-of-date, that no one today would think of forming such a thing. [[I understand all of this.]] I just want power and responsibility to work together in this as everything else. That is why we should get rid of this office, it would save a lot of money, and perhaps make the way of the General President greater and even prime minister, because of the highest. The prime minister sits here in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u76	He tries to treat his left men well.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u77	These are my point of view, and I think we should do this. Of course, that is only a later discussion. There's a lot of things that bother me. I don't really have time to review all of that, but I'm going to start by putting these ideas into place for national property and resource regulations. This is now one of the misdemeanors that in other countries there are some resource regulations and that everyone has to pay full price for using resources. There is one more misdemeanor, in most of the countries we compare with, that there is a resource principle defined by some national property and that it is not to be taken care of or allowed to be used only for the full price. I don't think there is. Maybe we could find one somewhere in South America or Africa. I know I can't quite get into this discussion, but I wish to be put back on the rosary because I'm going to take special care of the national and resource discussions. I'm not gonna waste time on the nature protection principle because I don't understand it. I think it will create an amazing problem and almost open a pandorhu box that will create a great justice, a long project, to try to get some bottom of it, endless lawsuits. Soon these courts will be paid to taxpayers as some sort of exact price. I think it's unnecessary, and we should be very careful about enforcing the constitution of such a set of regulations that will only create justice and actually bring power and decisions to court to try to determine what is normal in this regard. I don't like it, chief. Prime Minister, so I'll just say it out. It's because it's pointless. That is not to say that not all of us agree to try to improve all our quality, protect nature, etc. There's no disagreement about that. I have to wait until the next talk by discussing the specific resource problem, for that is, of course, what this case is all about and what the entire constitution has really been about. Of course, it's all about one thing that's a fishing control. So it is essential that you take it specifically.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u78	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for a brilliant speech. I would have liked to - the speech period is short, I have to listen to the second speech, which will not be boring, I know - that the senator would take more details on unique regulations, such as national property and nature protection regulations. I think it's important that we try to get together on the definitions of what is the State or the nation, if you can find something that is theirs, as well as the nature of their own personal rights. What set me on fire was at the point. A senator did well in reviewing the history of the Constitution. It's very important, I think, let's go over the process from A to Z, it remembers, for like a dog. The senator indicated, and, as it were, came to pass, there is so much nonsense going on through the process all. It is quite remarkable to see people you would have thought had some measure of dignity and responsibility try to keep them, for example. that young people that they have decided something in some election and that they are getting it from the young people. Hv. A senator pointed out that I am reminded of a few years ago that there are well - known people today who are expressing themselves on the subject was rather young when this election occurred. Now, I just ask, since the senator had me asking him properly into the national property, what is it that is on the lookout for those who maintain this sort of thing, and why on earth did men try to change the basics of an Icelandic nation?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u79	V.E.G. President. I wasn't at the 2009 Parliament when these very things started and were just suffering in town. In the conditions created in 2009 -- now I'm just saying how I look at this and my experience is -- after the collapse, where the nation was in perfect wounds, the atmosphere of bullshit, what I call a della. It will then be up to both wings to turn society into a fundamental part of the world. That's the process many people have been in. This was the opportunity to change Icelandic society. It had to be changed because of the collapse. Therefore, people are still doing this and, of course, see in the political gain of trying to enter the constitution of their political views that we are dealing with here every day. To me, the constitution isn't such a document. You can call it afall, e.g. I'm not ready to change the government ships of this country. We have built here a truly great society, on this government order, this democratic tradition that has been respected by men. We will see what will happen to the change of power. It's not a problem. It's a spiritual society based on our order and democracy tradition. I'm not gonna be a part of it, in some particular condition, to destroy that system.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u80	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer. But there is a problem, like a whale. A senator says that men suddenly saw an opportunity? Hv. A senator spoke of politics in this. The people saw an opportunity to get their political opinions into the Constitution of the country. Is that not so dangerous? Is it not what in itself can be most dangerous to democracy and how we develop our community if we begin to use the basic laws of the country as a political arena or to create some form of political policy for certain political views? Is that what happened? Is that what started? So it was that people saw an opportunity to communicate and enter the Constitution of policies that had not been on the platform during the previous years and that they taught this terrible collapse of banks on how it went, i.e. that the politicians who were ahead of the responsibility that would have to be prevented from repeating the game, and that is why the Constitution would need to be changed so that the political views could be entered into the constitution? I've been afraid it's like that. It was politicians, a respectable president, who started this entire game together. He started here. It was politicians who decided to take this trip, and of course, it is the politicians who have to end all this mess. I'm afraid, Mr. President, in spite of the best efforts. As prime minister, we are not necessarily much more today than we have been because political views are still being transmitted into the constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u81	V.E.G. President. I think me and what. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson is kind of on the same line in this case. Sounds like it. I completely agree that if we go this way, like, e.g. was in this so - called new constitution, and in part in this bill, Prime Minister, it is in my mind to destroy what I call a constitution. Then the future will be, so we will try to change it, depending on the ratios of power at any given time, and we will intervene in our affairs. That's what I've always wanted to avoid. I have always considered that we would agree, in principle, on the ruling order we have and would agree on what right we should have to have with the government, i.e. Human rights section. If we have to fix something like that, then there's a trend in human rights, but it's not a problem with the government unless we agree on it and then it's a general agreement. Of course, that was not the case. They were just trying to force it through a simple majority of things. That was the thought, much political policy. The people were waving that piece of paper and saying it was so democratic and fantastic, but it was true that all experts had already said it was unusable as a constitution. Those who were the most involved in being a constitution would usually say in this discussion that we should always listen to specialists. So when experts say it's ruined, then suddenly there's no need to listen to the experts anymore. Of course it's ruined. Everyone with some knowledge has control over his head.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u82	A respectable president. The Constitution, of course, is worthy of continued stability, and at the same time it deserves to develop in harmony with the changed era. Is there two things you can do together? Yes, it can. We are to approach our constitution with deep respect, and there is, of course, a greater need to be made to interfere with it than with other legislation. Since we approach it as our fundamental law, it is a guide that all other legislation needs to engulf and withstand. That is why they need to be in line with their baseline population, and that is why they need to be clear. The guide must also reflect the society, values, and vision of the nation, and I believe that it was largely done and in the missing cases. Of course, the biggest and most significant change is a review of the human rights phase at the time. I myself believe that the Constitution deserves the respect of standing where it can stand, that we will fix it, and make it stronger, that we will make it more permanent, even more beautiful, where it is needed. In my mind, it's the meaning of it that matters, not whether it's at the base to new or old. Our constitution is and has been a counterword, but it can't be at the expense of being clear, as it involves, yes, some of the most important topics of the day. Change proposal highest. The prime minister must also meet the requirements, be practical and clear, for both goals, input, and translation. The wording of the own counsel must be clear. It is not enough for them to be a good political will, a political declaration in or outside a chamber, but rather for the Constitution itself to meet this requirement. There are several factors in the bill here that are naturally involved, and I'm going to stick to one point, fundamentally, since I believe that there is reason to fear that noble goals have not been much more than that. That's the proposal for the country's resources. That law implies that my lack of clear information about what is started with change and could at worst be established by an arrangement, a system that is in opposition to the vision and will of the nation, and I ask if it was the goal. The resources of the land shall be according to the two-part manner. The bill, which would be the 80th rib of the Constitution, belongs to the Icelandic nation. It says, by permission of the president: They should be used in a sustainable way to benefit the entire population. The State has control and management of the treatment and use of the resources. (7) All of this is good and good. So says, with President's permission: ▪ Resources and national rights not dependent on private rights are national property. No one can get these quality or rights related to them for a possession or permanent use. The rulers of the legislature and executives exercise custody over them in the hands of the nation. Residents of natural resources and national rights belonging to national property or owned by the Icelandic state shall be based on law, and should be controlled with equalness and transparency. According to the law, remuneration for a profit is required. The last paragraph of this law is the one that is of utmost importance, both in political and legal context. It's where disappointments are hidden. Its supply is not clearly temporary. Rather, it states that the source should be based on law. It is good as far as it goes, but it is missing. It is a law that is natural, but it is not said at all. The key questions, political and legal, are that mine does not clearly know the answer, but bringing wealth into law is, of course, a certain attitude in itself. If the goal was to ensure the right of the public beyond what our fishing legislation will already do, that will probably not be the result. The national property deserves a clearer protection in the constitution than this publication is required. In order to achieve a clear, material change rather than a set of rules that are good as far as it goes but that which matters, should have been fixed in law as time binding, that the Constitution of the people clearly reveal what is permitted and what is not and for how long. The words have meaning, and so does silence. I wondered, " Why can't I say this clearly in the law itself? ' The report seems very clear, but it is as if the final step is missing. This is the result of years of work and passage, where everyone knows what it's all about. Why is it beginning to make a law that sees me as a rather open law, as at least is there any doubt about actually making a great change in a court case? If the objective is to settle the decision of a nation, it should be clear that when it comes to a change in constitution, we will be making clear in the hands of what material significance it has to say that a resource is a country's share, because I think that this law can at least be given. did not clearly achieve the objective or the promises that the people want to hear. They are not clearly stated in this arrangement. If the court's going to be largely unchanged, I feel that there should also be a clear basis for discussion about the constitution in this way and that the people will be told that it is the intention. However, if it's going to be a change, I propose to the government to make it clear to everyone, but I don't leave the law open in a way that's gonna be some kind of mouse how this arrangement is going to develop, because we know that, if it happens, the Constitution doesn't exist for a year or two. This would be a change, if approved at the next assembly, likely to live for decades. The report reports at the highest level. Prime Ministers have held 25 meetings with the presidents of the political parties or with their representatives. If you go all the way back, you can say that you were working on this case since 1998, and here we are, and the result is this. So I would like to point to the adjustment proposed by the chairman of the Guidebook, which has been slightly altered, but we also know that the individual words in the legislation can have a fundamental impact on the input. In the making of the adjustment, a small thing that is large is to put in the word "indefinitively, " as well as the political and legal declaration in the matter of talking about the natural price. Mr. President. The bill on resources has a long history, as I did earlier. In view of this, I have to admit that this conclusion is quite disappointing to me. There is a great need to deal with resources in a constitution, and there is therefore a recommendation on the principles that governments and legislation must uphold in the regulation and management of resource use. I'm not sure that the rule here to set will limit the legislature. I'll put a big question mark on it, but I'll welcome the discussion on that subject, and I'll hope we can get on with it here. The content of the terms on natural resources is threefold. 1.mg. for the natural resources of Iceland in general. There we will hear and see the main reasons for the use to be fundamental. There we learn that the State is in charge of resource use. 2 mg. deals with national resources and national rights and the right effect of describing national quality common. It discusses the role of the State in terms of national property. Then there's 3. mg, which I have been considering here, on the basis of the granting of documents for the use of resources and national rights that are owned or owned by the State, and on the basis of the basic conditions for such sources. I would count it a great improvement if our constitution was given a provision that could finally frame it into which the vision is in this respect. There are many things here, but I can't see that the answers to the big questions are in the bill as they are now, as the following notes show that what has been called is not in the text itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u83	Mr. President. Of course, this will not be so that you can insist that all members of the Parliament express themselves on all the factors discussed. This is certainly disappointing, for the introduction to speech has been made available to me. The senator was excellent, at least. A senator would not discuss any more of the regulations of the bill than the resource directive. But because of him. A senator made it his main subject of conversation that would make me want to ask her a specific question regarding it. The question is, what is it? A candidate believes that the Constitution should set up a general resource directive that applies to all resources or if it considers that the resource directive is intended to produce specific changes in a particular sector.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u84	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator of questions and answers and joy will I discuss other aspects of the constitution. I'm not a talker. paritaprevir Brynjar the son of Níelsson, who was tormented by a discussion of the constitution. I would think that measures for resources, and I think that was what was set up, protected all the resources, and will generally be in that sense. But I wondered, " Does this language have to do with the idea that there's a special way out of one particular resource? '
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u85	Mr. President. I may not be responsible for the wording of this law, but I think it's a misunderstanding. Senator. I think that wording is developed in a way that is relatively widely used about resources and resource use. Still, I can't help but wonder because of it. Parliaments of the Environment are going to be a lot of talk about fishing and fishing management and resource use and the resources needed for resource use in the seas, if that is, on the basis of what they are doing. A senator, in the current constitution that prevents the idea of a change in the biofuel from being made.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u86	A respectable president. I'm sorry for this. I have to admit, I don't fully understand a question. Senator. It's meant to reach the resources in this facility, but I think that's why. A senator knows well that the large political conversation, both now and previously, is about the seabed, the resource there. It is, of course, in the context of which we are discussing non - time contracts and natural rewards. It can be true of all other resources too, but it is where the bill passes, where silence talks at its height, and it rhymes with the political emphasis of the government classes on the seabed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u87	Mr. President. I've got to start by saying, "What?" A senator to the Constitution needs a solid foundation, and I thought the talk began very well. But then, when it came to changing according to the times, I got a little bump, I have to admit it. So I want to ask you why. A senator: feeling a bit upset. A senator's right to get in and out of the constitution each time? Or is this document to be about the basic rights of our citizens and the administration of this country? Is that really a big change in the spirit of the times? That's what I'm really worried about, so I wanted to ask, What does the frequency in this example mean?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u88	A respectable president. I'm sorry I caused chills at night. A senator, but then I realize that all I need is to refer to him today in order to make him respond. Frequent use of e.g. a review of the human rights section at the time. He was rephrased when he was revised in his own time. It was fundamental, but it wasn't that it was being followed by something on the afternoon radio that day. Hv. A senator also knows how well a man in law knows what he must come to change the constitution. Whether to use the term more frequent may be at issue, but the Constitution is not engraved on stone. Although she deserves that respect and is permitted to remain stable, she also tolerates the conversation, and she tolerates evolution. She even tolerates the spirit of the times.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u89	President. I have always felt that the atmosphere is what we are dealing with every day in legislation and that the Constitution is largely to be left at peace, although it is possible to establish such a situation, e.g. On the rights of the citizens, the need to be added. In fact, all these rights have been spoken of as being alive, and they do not need to change the constitution but simply interpret them in the era. Many have had these ideas. We're talking about setting up a staff of resources, which is a typical law on what we're dealing with every day, which is dangerous. How should we use the resource? What price should we pay for it? It's the politics of every day. Going to put it into a constitution that we'll always have to pay for - which no one knows what it means, but all right, of course, it all ends in some lawsuit - is in my mind useless regulations in the constitution. We're in charge of the resource. But it's political how we do it, about which people choose. How will we cope with the use of the resource? How? Who will be authorized to do so? What conditions must be met? I don't think it belongs in a constitution. That's unnecessary. We control this wave on the basis of sovereignty, and also another resource use. That's what we're working on.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u90	A respectable president. I mention another aspect of the Constitution and society's attitudes have changed over time, which is the office of the President of Iceland and his role. This section provides normal adjustments. I'm asking why. A senator may have gone too far. We simply disagree that the resources in the constitution should not be discussed. The Constitution covers many of the largest issues of the day and is to be this frame, this commandment, that all other legislation needs to deal with. While it is not carefully outlined for how long an agreement is being made, or each centenarian should be for the natural compensation, I would have found it more than just a report, more than in the political community in this room or in the media, what it means is that this resource is a national property and how we're going to guarantee it. It can then be carefully implemented in the general legal format of the currency, at the length of contracting, etc. It's nothing, either in the suggestion of the highest. Prime Minister or reformer, which falls into the pit of frameing some reference that does not meet the time line. It's just not like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u91	President. I'm just going to take a moment on the background of this case. It is often noted that the decision to a government body has now been condemned illegally and as a result, all this process is impossible and so, but no one has claimed it unless the Constitution is changed. This is just a conclusion that happened, and the council did what this government can always do, it ordered a group or committee, or advice to suggest that a bill exactly what was done, which is exactly what this government has done in this ideal period, ordered a number of committees to offer all kinds of suggestions about the others and these bills and the like. There's absolutely nothing complicated about that process. The decision of a government body was made on national terms, certainly by intervening differences. However, this is not necessarily the case with those who have disagreements that are right. We can, for example. Consider the disagreement on national rights, and there were fine analyses on that matter here at the council. Since then, it has been evident who were right - those who had disagreements on that matter. So a third energy package, it became clear that those who had disagreements were wrong, so it has something to do with us when we go out and see if there are differences in national regulations or how to handle their results, etc. However, the conclusion is clear: Although there is a complaint that there has been a small participation in the national law, it only works in a democracies community that those who come to an elected location and vote. Those who arrive fail to trust those who arrive to determine the conclusion. That's the way it is. Everybody knows that. Then there is no point in throwing it out as some sort of argument on the matter of being small. The result is clear, though. Since then, the continuation of the national law has simply not been fully worked or designed to produce results. It seems to who in which the government is being referred. I think the bill is the highest. Prime Minister is offered wholeheartedly, but the process that led to the failure of the project was not designed to produce results. It was possible to relate on the first day that success would not come. It's been said in public, both of the highest. Prime Minister and secretary of finance, that it was never really expected to do so, perhaps hoping to do so somewhere behind the scenes or something like that. However, it has just been made clear in a public discussion that there was never really any firm belief in that bill, something much would have had to be done in order for it to have worked. I was at 1st. Here, when the matter was first addressed. That's when it went. The head of the great enterprise and spoke of those who wanted an overall review of the Constitution that was delaying the procedure in establishing a new constitution according to the results of a national law. But I have argued in my discussion that this is the very issue of the resource directive that has merely stopped it. It's the interests that appear in the bounds that have delayed the process over and over, both in here and in the same way in the community. It is a conflict in how politics have brought up the interpretations presented in the bill of the Government Council for a full price to the normal price, saying that it is a form of distrust over the fact that it is responsible for a complete mind or an honest political system. I don't agree with that. There's evidence behind a normal price, but there's also evidence behind a full price. That is why I have even suggested that both be better. It is possible to use both words as the ultimate expression. The prime minister is involved in this discussion as to whether the resource is new or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u92	Mr. President. First, I wanted to make comments. The senator that it is primarily the resource directive that has caused debates over the proposals of a management body and this process that has taken place during the past decade or so. There is a disagreement, but there are many other factors. It has, in fact, been the main supporters of a board of governance that has wanted to put the resource directive into the foreground, even though we, who have criticized the proposals of a board, have done so on a number of other grounds. Therefore, in this discussion today, I may have tried to focus on opinions that I believe are alive, e.g. The section on the President that affects, including... President's authority. Perhaps there is reason to ask why. A senator, because I know that he has considered this a significant matter in terms of what he is presented here, whether he is clear enough by reason of what he is. Senator. Although I haven't had time to review all the details I wanted to do in that relationship, I've thought of it and have made it clear that the first consideration was that the president's section was not the result I expected, i.e. In the context of clearly defined conditions. I've come up with a lack of clarity. If, on the other hand, people are concerned that when it comes to saying that the president has some authority, and so are they taken of him by any other measure, I have said that there was a problem, it was a problem, is still there, even if this bill is done. I wonder what. A senator may agree with me on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u93	President. Is the Presidential cap clear? I think it's clearer than the current constitution, definitely. I'm gonna let the narrative process run its course to get better into exactly how anyone can think of turning out of what is suggested in this bill. However, this is definitely a reform from the current known exits associated with the forwardness or failure of the task force. Yet it says that the president should do so. When each article is interpreted literally, it is as if a president is somehow able to take control of it in various ways, e.g. The question is, will the President have to accept a breach or do he have to do it and so on? At present, it is inexplicable. What is added here makes it clearer. I look forward to seeing how the review process works in this regard. This, in particular, is the resource policy. Yes, there are other opinions that have been made up of the work of a administrative and surveillance committee, the Venice Commission and other countries where people have certainly agreed that there are counts that have gone through a certain mechanism without people believing that they are being cut off from the principle of governance. But we always end up in the resource argument. That's why I say that's mainly the problem. That's just my opinion. There's nothing more complicated than that. I fully understand that there are opinions in other articles, but in this argument, the debate on the resource problem is raised, about the total amount or the normal amount, how we understand it, and how we discuss when it should be a total price, and when it should be a normal fee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u94	Mr. President. The biggest disputes? Yes, but it has been primarily in the mouth of those who have been trying to drive these changes on the basis of a board of governance. In my opinion they have--and then we'll keep it like a dog. A senator and I respect the fact that he expresses his opinions on this and I also do so for my part - in my opinion, it has been tried repeatedly to use the resource tax as some kind of salerix to bring much more extensive changes through because men have been convinced that there could be any strings in the public with regard to the resource costs, and on those grounds, they have been tried to smuggle against a lot of other changes. I just want to remind you that the proposals of a board of directors were going on, not changing just some resource directive and some particular arrangement, that was being overwritten almost all the articles of the Constitution with unpredictable consequences and adding 35 new articles. So there's been a lot of talking about this. But in propaganda from those who have been fighting for legal proposals, e.g. The board of directors and others have been placed in a special resource source. It has, in some sense, been considered politically commercial. But because of him. A senator has the opportunity to answer me again. I would like to ask a detailed question: When he speaks of increasing clarity in this section, does he have something more in mind than the Senate violation? I'm going to enter the council in particular in my later speech, but when he speaks of increasing clarity, he may feel a bit upset. A candidate in this bill has something clearer than the current constitution, e.g. what does the President's own assessment of the European Commission have against the executive ceremony he signs?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u95	There's a lot to go over here. Yes, based on a bill, the Board of Directors reviews the current constitution. 80% of the constitution we live in is contained in the board's bill and 80% of the sentences in it. The phrases that fall out aren't so great if you go over the list. You can, like, go over that list sometime, maybe 2nd. I have him here in a very long article. The rest are additions. Yes, 35 new articles, which are found in constitutions around the world. There is no great innovation in this document that came from the Council of Control. This is something that already exists. In fact, it is quite remarkable to see evolution in it and where propaganda really lies after all. Politically sellable? Yeah, all right, well, well, it's political. I understand it very well because of the noise that has been out of the saying system for quite a while. Of course, people care about the sea resources. Being on or against it is not political. It's just something people are, of course, biting about. This is precisely because the nation is the constitutionr and has set the limits of what we should work inside. If the people say: When it comes to resources that are going to be used for profit at the council, working for the full price, not just for a natural fee or for some other reason that gives us the results we now have. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u96	V.E.G. President. Because I heard from a talk. paritaprevir Björn Leví Gunnarsson's bear that he is very fond of the provision of resource law, which you have had in your mind that all this matter is really about and has always been about, I would like to ask: Is there a similar resource law in the Constitutions of other Western countries or over the heads of some resource law? If so, which kingdoms are the main ones? Is it not just some Icelandic invention to have a resource problem in the way that binds all of us, politics to the future, how we use the resources, and what price we charge? This may exist somewhere, I don't remember. I know, however, that it was a national arrangement in the old Soviet constitution. Are we going there, or where are we going? Why do we have in the Constitution a law on how we are going to use resources for the future? Now it is not easy to change the constitution. Does the senator think it is wise to have such a law, as was suggested by the Council of Government? There is a much more harmless law with prime minister, but why do we need it this way? And why is there really no other person with such provisions in his constitution? Can a senator explain this?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u97	A respectable president. Like what? In his speech, a senator himself did not recall whether such a law was anywhere else. When I reviewed the matter, it was 2016 last, all of the articles were available in some constitution. I don't remember exactly which law was where and I don't have it right in front of me. I tried to look it up on the two minutes I had, and found at least one article, the National Resources and the Constitution. Real Developments and the Independents for the Future Regiment of the Resource Industries - If I want it in Icelandic, it's natural resources and constitutions. Recent trends and its impact on future legislation and the resource age. There is certainly a law, and the science is already under law. Consider, for example, the academic freedom that is in the law and is proposed by a governmental body to enter a constitution. There's not a big difference there, except that the constitution is the frame we don't overtake. We must base our legislation on the constitution. There is nothing wrong with putting the politics now and in the future that line around the country's resources to ensure sustain sustainability. In recent years and decades, it has been demonstrated that we have walked in a very unsuspectable way in resource use, natural resources, so it is definitely necessary to put it in a constitution so that it is not being too easily slided by the laws of natural resources in a way that is unsuspectable.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u98	V.E.G. President. Yeah, it's all there in the seeds, and it's all in politics. But we have always had a rule here to aim for other comparable kingdoms, democracy, and one most of our neighbors. When I was in law, I can't remember that in any Constitution in the North countries, there were resource regulations of the kind that the proposals of a board of governance can be expected. I think I can say I'm not. We may find this somewhere in South America, but I don't think I'm going to say that a similar law is in Ecuador's constitution. There are, I think, some similar regulations in the Rwanda Constitution. I pay attention to such procedures in the constitution. We all agree on that, and no disagreement about that, that we are not going to walk on our resources in an insurmountable way. There is no disagreement with this and our interests are moving toward a sustainable sector, sustainable use of resources. I fear, however, that the proposal to recommend a resource-based policy could lead to a self-sustaining water supply. That's my concern, of course. I'm just saying, I'm not gonna be the first man to go up there and make some kind of national property plan and use of resources for the future. That's what I think is a check for a problem, and I'm pretty sure about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u99	V.E.G. President. Those were two remarkable answers. At first, it was suggested that some Communist, or Communist, resource regulations exist, etc. And then we were all supposed to agree on wanting sustainable resource use, and if we all agree, that's something that obviously belongs to a constitution. The basis for what is in the constitution is something we generally agree on. Then the counter went into ensuring a sustainable seabed. Wait, wait, wait. A senator who doesn't adopt a marketing system? How is that different from adjusting, in terms of self-sustaining, about the circumstances? [[Up front.]] I'm saying that, if it's market, he'll adapt to the situations that guarantee the sustainability of those who are currently involved in the market. I have no interest in looking out for the sustainability of the seabed in a certain way that is out of the market system as it is today. If we're going to go out in Communism, it's the present code.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u100	So you're talking about settlements?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u101	I'm talking about how some companies have a higher percentage in peddling, but allowed by law, and that's not done at all in the law, but that's some experiments made to legalize that they don't have to deal with it until after six years or something like that, whatever it was. We have a problem controlling this resource at the moment, and if we really agree that we should have sustainable resource use, it belongs to a constitution how we have the box around it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u102	A respectable president. I would like to emphasize that in my first speech, I studied the methodology in general, the lead, and the work force. As for the projects that we then carried out, I would like to state that I really miss seeing the exuberance that was agreed to take place during this terms. It was given up. And I point to what I said in my first speech that I miss seeing even terms here, especially because after we began to explore the actual will of the public regarding that law, we saw the ultimate wish of the people, the people, in the form of equal order. And the more involved, the more the support was given to balance votes. I'd also like to state that I have not changed my attitude on the Icelandic Regulation, the Environment Programme and the Presidential section, and I support the basic elements of methodology and the approach of the Supreme Opportunities. Prime Minister and Chairman of the Left Green. However, I have noted very interesting indications from what happened. Birgir The year man's Ármannsson was about the President's lesson. I don't think he's going to be taken into consideration. Initially, the director of the left green meant to have a lot of bills, it was always my favorite, and I declared at the time that I was ready to be on that prime. Nevertheless, I have not changed my attitude. I believe there is a basis for a solid agreement on these factors. It was quite clear, however, that the resource problem was that the exact solidarity I would have requested could not be achieved. I could have provided exactly what I would have wanted to see. To get along, however, I am trying to prove that it can be worked out as the highest level. Prime Minister has volunteered. That is why I have made an adjustment that works out of the existing requirements. Although many words are not being changed into my suggestion, this is a key factor. These are basic principles to activate national property, but they do not make it inactive and really meaningless. Although the word national property is beautiful and to be accepted into a constitution, it has no meaning for the nation beyond what is already expected by the general law. V.E.G. The minister of finance rightly stated in 1st. that the new law would not prevent time from binding the rights of general law. No, this does not necessarily have to be chewed into one or any other, for the general rule in all other laws on natural rights of national resources is that a temporary agreement is made. However, this is not done and has not been done after the Independence Party and LIVE, now SFS, have taken a turn in their position after the Committee of Resources, led by Jóhannes Nordalur, returned its decision in 2000. Then these two parties, LEV and the Independence Party, were oppressed. And then I hear I talk here about the passing of time. I started with a council by accepting the change in constitution. Since then, we haven't changed our constitution. We're supposed to show that ambition, yes, we owe the nation some changes in constitution, but we need to do it properly, especially when it comes to its resource demand. She is asking that she not be deceived by some empty law. Speaking of the age, why hasn't anything changed in those 20 years? Because all proposals, whether in general law or in an effort to change the constitution, have been clearly counteracted by the law of the general law of temporary agreements on access to the marine resource. So it's a huge deal. This has always prevented temporary marine resources from making temporary agreements. The general principle of the innovation of natural resources is also made clear in the government's bill on highland parks. It is reasonable to assume that any right to use it according to that law will be temporary. We can also see that in all aspects of energy efficiency. There are temporary contracts. It's all controversial. Fish farming is controversial, but the law is very clear. There are temporary contracts that include access to the country's common resources, and uncertainty should not be placed on the shoulders of the people. She shouldn't be there. Thus, the non - use rights in the fishing industry is a rule in Icelandic and not just an exception in Icelandic rights but also as we look around other parts of the world. That is why the Honour is cast out. Secretary of finance, in my opinion, made clear the nature of the Constitution and the general law. One of the most important roles of the constitution is to limit power. This is how the Constitution is passed, for example. The absence of any discrimination in the tax system. If there were no such provision in the constitution, it would still be possible to secure the equal status of everyone in the general law. The value of this constitution, therefore, means that the Lawgiver's hands are bound. The analysis of the resource problem is about the fact that the left green and independent party prefers to have national property regulations, saying that they can continue to differ, that we can maintain discrimination in the use of energy resources. It is a general rule that those who have access to resources, private resources, make temporary agreements, as I said before. Energy efficiency, centralized nation parks, fish farms, all of this is certainly controversial, but what combines these articles is that they are made of temporary agreements. That is the principle and should be applied to ensure that our national property will be active. We're not supposed to go around it like a cat around a hot grin. It's the administrative side of the case. Then comes the other side of political science. In the conglomerate management system, compromises have to be made at all times. Two of the current administration categories entered the last election with the policy that the temporary rights of resource resources should cover all resources, forwards and left greens. They said to their voters before the last election that there was a special rule in the fishing road. The independent tribe was the only class that continued to proclaim a separate policy for the seabed. The media of the government classes was then that the other two groups, forward, and left green, agreed to the independence party's policy. This is often the case in the form of government. Let us not put it to the fore. To some extent, we must always accept such compromises, but they can become dangerous when they revolve around big princes, which involve discrimination. If the Constitution allowed discrimination on tax issues, we would suffer because one company in the government was obliged not to promote the interests of the common tax laws. It is similar with the use of the marine resource. It contains the Independence Party, with less than a quarter of a vote, in preventing the same rules, general rules, resource values, and other resource use. The only way to prevent this kind of special care is to ensure in a constitution that the national legislation's special interest is to be prohibited, that temporary agreements on the use of all natural resources, where no one will be left behind. A respectable president. In my opinion, it's a matter of restricting the legal rights of the lawgiver. This is a big deal. The Constitution also seems to tie the hands of VG and forward when it comes to basics, such as the limits of power in a constitution. Thus, the Independence Party has been able to use the Treaty to bind the political and cooperative groups into the next elected period. I can get to that in the next talk. It is as if several members of the council in this room did not realize that the most clear lights being associated with this resource directive have to be approved by more than part here, are that more part of a new council must be agreed on, unless there is no meaning to this resource principle. In the end, this authority is of course in the hands of the voters and they can select groups that want to limit the general power of the legislator to discrimination in resource use or group that have agreed to maintain the administrative potential for continued discrimination. I think that the choice will eventually be very clear; a general rule that prevents special considerations and regulations or continued maintenance of special interests and specialities.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u103	Mr. President. One question that I think is reason to ask why. In view of her speech, whether or not it matters, a senator has no meaning that in a constitution there is a provision for national possession on the resources of the country and that it is not to be sold or given permanently.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u104	A respectable president. It is important to state clearly that the general rule will be that resources should be timed. That's not what they say. V.E.G. Secretary of finance brought out the Water Island Court, correctly. What, though, does our Water Island Court say? That we cannot deliver resources permanently, but the uncertainty is that we are completely in the dark about the length of this time. No matter what resource use we're dealing with, well. Birgir Aarson's Ármannsson, they make temporary contracts, they vary lengths depending on the resources we know, which are made temporary contracts. That's clear. Despite the beautiful word for national property, this law will not be effective unless this is taken into account. It's not being done. I feel that there is uncertainty on the shoulders of the people, not on the shoulders of the people. The uncertainty is in the nation, not those who are personally useful to our common resource. This law does not add to what is stated in 1 paragraph. From 1991 onward, the 1991 fish - control laws. Nothing. It doesn't add to the right effect. It doesn't set a general rule. That doesn't limit the lawgiver's field. We will still be listed here at a council that will continue to ensure that there is one special principle above others. I don't like it because I know that for many people it's not the thought. That's why I say, "Let's all agree to have general order." Time to make contracts about national resources regardless of the resources involved. I pray that you speak clearly. Don't go in here on legal outlets. I just want the general rule to be clear, time-out of the nation's resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u105	Mr. President. I'm not going to go into some big race at what? A senator. I think that when you say you can't deliver something permanently, that's what matters in this regard. When they say something is national property, I think it matters. Right away. A senator speaks of temporary negotiations, speaking of her idea of the fishing system. I don't feel like it belongs in a constitution. And I'm asking why. A senator, because I know that she has studied well: Are there any cases in the constitutions around us regarding the kind of regulations she would like to include in her constitution in this respect?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u106	A respectable president. Yeah, it all matters. I might be more calm if the management parties hadn't dropped, not even during this term, not just twice, but three times a suggestion that the time-making of the resource should be done. The restoration came from all proposals regarding how we were going to collect the resource costs, the market route and all that. There's no discussion here. I'm sorry I'm being misled. It's simply saying, general rule, time-making contracts. Other nations have this in general law. However, this has been repeated. Other nations, whether Norwegian or others with rich natural resources, have made this clear. There are always temporary uses of the resource. But here it isn't. It's been a lot of trouble here. I point out that the results of Jóhannes Nordalur's Committee for Resources from 2000 were clear, that laws would need to be adjusted along with the existing proposals to set aside time. All of this had disappeared from the Independence Party and the Icelandic National Union. I'd be more calm if, for some time, the government groups had said, "Yes, let's just do it in the general law." But it has been dropped several times here during this ideal period under the leadership of the left green. That's why I'm very nervous. It is only a question of beauty to say that putting the property in here is important, and it does not matter that there is no lasting possession or delivery. Let's just make it clear, and let's make it clear. It's not that we're talking about which way we're going to collect the fee. I've been trying so many times that since the lawyer has to decide. We know that Polish we have a different policy on how we want to collect the resource costs. I trust the markets. The Independence Party does not. It's just different political emphasis. I'm just asking for it right now in this vital step that we actually engage national property, the resource directive. This is not now, but we still have time to change this into the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u107	V.E.G. President. I must admit that this eternal talk about the special care of the Independence Party is getting very tired, just one of the most tired things you can hear. It wasn't the Independence Party alone that set in. It was not the Independence Party alone that handed over the market warrants, the right to hunt. It's just not like that. You have to remember that when the dinner system was put on, it was beginning to assign the salutations that had hunting experience. Why was this done? This is because those who had come to sea formed rights protected from a constitution. It's just that. It's going to be all over the water. The politics of the day, the council at any given time, can change this arrangement; can only decide, because tomorrow, that hunting will be free again. You can decide to form a fishing warrant. But because it is so difficult to establish a policy in a general law, it is to be done in a constitution. Is that easier? No, it's not easy. It's just about that, and the politics are about it, that we've built a system that's sustainable, and the Independence Party doesn't want to change it by calling in the fishing warrants, which is probably the stupidest of all, and inviting the highest bidder. There are only a very few who think of it, and few who try it over the world. The few who have tried to do so have not been successful in offering everything as an auction. Of course, it's fish markets today. Those assigned to the halls of 1983 or 1984 - all of this has been done in prenupes and sales, it has been a long time ago. They've got everything under control. We have a sustainable business path. They came and said, "No, listen. It is best to recall this and invite the highest bidder, that it is the national interests of the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u108	A respectable president. Because I love what. A senator then becomes tired of listening to such a language that may have misled the discussion as if it were already the point. A senator came up here. Resurrected has not spoken of calling in fishing permits. On the contrary, we have spoken about maintaining a powerful fishing system. We've talked about it repeatedly, but we've also talked about time-making contracts. And if you know what, I don't have to go very far back. You want me to point to the 2013/2016 government? Then, a sea emissary proposed temporary contracts for 23 years. You weren't talking about calling something or anything. The hour of negotiations went through the Government of the Agency and Independence Party, and what happened? Something that didn't surprise anyone, it was stopped at the Independence Party. No matter what is tried to ensure the nation's basic rights, to ensure active national property, whether by law or by government law, this is always stopped. Then people come up here and say, "You're a bunch of guys about to enter a fishing warrant." It's just not like that. But we're talking about securing the constitution of real active national property with temporary contracts and what. A senator has to answer me, too, why he is opposed to wasting time making contracts for one resource section. Why is that? Why just have a special policy around the seabed? It needs to be explained to me at the same time as the bill comes after the bill, including... from the government I've been pointing out about a temporary use of resources. But that is not true of the seabed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u109	V.E.G. President. Temporary negotiations can be made to the highest bidders only by recalling the current greeting. That's not possible. People have warrants now. If we're going to make a new deal with the one who offers the best, this discussion at the woodfront seems to have always been about the market, we'll have to install some resources. There won't be a market for the highest bidders unless there's a way of calling in or taking fishing warrants from those who have them today. It's as simple as that. There's nothing to go on this mission. We deal with it here in the hall daily, what is wise to do. It was passed into a law on the control of fishing in its time, this law, which was just as useless as anything else, as the Supreme Court tells us. Of course, we control the resource on the basis of the Supreme Court. We can decide to recall or change this system as we wish if we consider it to benefit the nation. So there is no objection. There is no need for a constitution. It doesn't need to be. We can decide. We can decide tomorrow is a free hunt. It's all about the fact that this industry, which is our most important industry, is sustainable, moody, competitive, and competitive, and probably the only place in the world where it has proved to be. I repeat a question as of reason. paritaprevir A Birgir son of an Ármannsson said: "Who else is going that way? Where's that in other constitutions? Who's thought of that? I don't know, but maybe it's possible. A senator will answer that question. But I love her too, especially her family.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u110	A respectable president. Well, if it doesn't just end up with some pillow talk at the end--and I'll just say, "You too." But we still don't forget the politics and what we're at odds with, and that's a big deal. The question is, What other nations? There are no other countries we compare ourselves to, either in Europe or in other places, that have non-term use of resources, such as this one. None. I need to be explained why foreigners, one of Western nations, have an untimely use of a fishing resource. [[Up front.]] - I'm sure it's a lot that we should just make it clear in the constitution and have the general rule that there will be a temporary agreement with those who wish to have the exclusive rights of our resources, wherever they are. It is then the Lawgiver's decision on how long they should be, it should not be in the constitution. It's very simple. Once again, I wait to know that we're talking about calling in our suggestions. We are simply talking about timing of the contracts, just as the proposal was 20133/42016 in the government of Independence Class and Front Class. It was then stopped by the House of Independence. I know that much of the developers were quite satisfied with that way because they also hoped that they would be taking a step toward someone's reconciliation. They realize that if we are going to continue this arrangement, that we should not take into account the national willingness not to consider the real value and the resources of the resource, this barrel will eventually explode. That's what I want us to get out of the way. The marine system is a highly valued system, a valuable source of value, and we must basically protect it. But it will not be a substitute guard for today's specialized care and will be maintained under the leadership of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u111	Mr. President. It was a few things I promised, in my first talk, that I would get in on the second talk. There I'm going to stop at something that I had far too little time to cover, and I'll just be able to get close to this time. I mentioned in my first talk comments to the 10th paragraph. that discuss the authority of the prime minister to oversee the work and policy of the government. It is only a matter of a little understatement, or of opinion, which was about over a decade ago, when we were discussing changes in the law of administration and, in fact, a constitution that occurred at the time, whether a government should be a multiorganized administration or whether ministers should be responsible for their actions, as it has been. Today, the minister is independent of his work and is also responsible for his duties. I wondered, perhaps even further, from the review of this paper, whether it is being drawn up between the gaps, if this change is achieved, which is found in the 10th. Gr., but it's today. That's what I think we need to look into in advance. Although the Constitution text as it is stated, that the prime minister supervises the work and policy of the government and the coordinated action of a minister, if necessary, is relatively harmless and does not seem to include a major change, I wanted to look into it further from that point on. whether there's ever any way to a multi-organized government that I'd like to give a warning. I also mentioned regulations for the administrations of 13. and I mentioned in my first speech that services and ministers in the management board today have the same administrative sources as other ministers. This puts it this way: Ministers in the management board should make decisions only that are necessary. It's where I think it's legal to create uncertainty, and I think it needs to be examined. Who Evaluates What Is Needed? Is it a request for courts to determine what is necessary in this regard? I'm not sure it's right to move in this direction. I specifically mentioned the need for us to consider the matter of violations of the council. There I say, if the president wishes to make an independent economist decision on whether or not to be allowed to be broken by Congress, let him say it. If a person wants a prime minister to cause a decision to break a council, he should say so. If they want the authority of the Generals to end the council, they should say so. Somehow there's a gap between them and the rule is not clear. It is suggested that the president, after a proposal from the Prime Minister, should consult with the president of the council and with the heads of Congress, but it is not said that the president is bound by it. I think that by enforcing regulations like that bill, you're creating more uncertainty than you need. If you think it is uncertain today whether the President has independent authority in this regard or if he is bound by a prime minister's motion, then there is no way of adding to the uncertainty that is being done in the bill. Rather, the knot needs to be cut and made clear: Is it the president who should make this decision? Is the decision made by the prime minister? Or is it the council to decide this? I think we can argue with and against the conclusion as far as all these factors are concerned, but I don't think it's good to have this somehow unscrupulous and loose in the ropes as it shows. More things, Mr. President, I have to come to the Committee. I'll do it like the highest. President of Steingrímur J. Sigfússon and comment on the subject. A management and observation committee or a case here at 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u112	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The year's Ármannsson before the talk. This was not shown in the talk the most significant point that has been discussed here today. However, I would like to ask the senator what has been discussed in previous talks. When you mention the resource problem in the constitution, the focus is usually in the water. I thought of a resolution that was adopted at the Council of 2019, 149 of Congress, and the Environment Ministers have been in their hands - and was to be returned a bill after the Senate resolution - but it is about the definition of resource resources, in which the General concluded to hide the Environmental and Resource Ministers' experts in the fields of resource rights, environmental rights, and environmental rights to create a bill as a law on what constitutes to be a resource in the country and what Iceland's resources are. I just want to ask the senator about it because, of course, the discussion always goes to that which is true, discussing the resource directive and then focusing on the seabed, whether or not he agrees that this work will be completed so that we can start talking about Iceland's resources depending on groups and what resources we can apply so that the debate can gain some depth other than in the deep waters of the sea.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u113	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this question. Without the fact that I've been paying particular attention to a Senate resolution or work related to the assessment of the resources and how they should be defined - I don't know it well enough - I would think we'd be able to arrive at a late date with a complete count or a systemic definition of what resources are. It can change from time to time. The practicality of different aspects of nature can vary from time to time. What is valuable today may be remembered tomorrow, and what is worthless today can be very valuable tomorrow. That's why I've believed that if you want other resources, resource ownership, resource use, to a constitution, it should be widely said. And if a person is interested in moving certain changes or arrangements in certain areas of resource use, it should be done in a general law rather than in a constitution. Therefore, I think the principle found in the prime minister's bill is far better than many earlier guidelines that have been proposed because it is relatively general and can refer to a number of resources at different times and that is left to normal space for the legislative to set specific rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u114	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. This may have been an unfair question because we are discussing the constitution, and of course it needs to be widely spoken there. I completely agree with that. As the senator noted, valuable things may change, there may be no profit tomorrow. But what made me decide to come up here and ask the senator about this may not be directly involved in the Constitution. But, anyway, when we're discussing the constitution and this arrangement, we'll always focus on the one thing that we're always fighting on here at the council, i.e. amount of resources from seawater. That is why I think it is very important that we land in some way what are the resources and what are useful resources in nature, whether it is for sea or country, so that this ideal resource directive, which is in the bill, which I am willing to quite entirely sign, is useful. That's kind of why I'm asking this. That is why I wanted to reflect on this in my talk about the Constitution now.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u115	Mr. President. Yes, the question is understandable. A senator, and especially because if we are realistic, it is so that the resources in the natural world can be very diverse. The conditions of their use may be very variable. Therefore, it can be very difficult to establish one rule that applies to the whole realm or, if so, to have in the constitution of a law that sets relatively narrow limits on how to rule in that area. In answer to what. paritaprevir The Katrín of Kartrana Gunnarsdóttir earlier took a look at the situation in other countries. The situation is now, so it is said that the laws of the sort discussed here are relatively few in the Constitutions of the countries around us and in the Constitutions where there are some ideas about national property are almost unknown in countries that have similar administrative procedures and legal systems as we do. There are countries in South America or Africa that need to be consulted, I think, primarily in order to find some harmony with such a law. In general, I think, in the countries around us, who live in a similar administrative and legal structure that the rules in this field are best prescribed by public law, but the rules of that kind have no place in the constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u116	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The year - to - year Ármannsson contribution to material depression, good thought, speculation about the chapter of the president. There are a number of speculations that happened by the dog. Senator. I took that stand, and haven't changed it, that these measures can be exactly done as the highest. The prime minister and director of the left green suggests that there are certain factors and aspects of the bill that need to be considered. I'd like to mention, for the sake of argument. A member of the management board and the uncertainty of the transition that is presented here on the issue that ministers in the management board can only change -- I do not remember the exact word - when necessary and there's too much space, in fact, in the spirit of what I think the resource directive is. I think it's very vague, not clear enough. That's why we're supposed to be much more specific, and that's why I believe we're getting involved in sharpening these observations as a matter of course. A senator came with us. But I'd like to ask what. A senator would know if I understood him correctly because he said that he would make his comments to 2 Peter 3: 1. um., that these suggestions can still be applied by the prime minister, so he expects us to do so rather than be able to enter 2nd. material discussions about all four aspects; about Icelandic, environmental, Oval section, or II. section of the constitution and also of the resource directives.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u117	Mr. President. Hv. A senator asks me an interesting question, and if I'm to be honest, I say I have no idea how this all works out. I have no idea. However, I believe it is necessary and normal, first that such suggestions are presented to them for a perfunctory discussion, both here and then on the committee. I have just as much hope that these suggestions, individual suggestions, or suggestions as a whole, will fit into 2nd. I just have to assume that until further notice. But I think these things I've been referring to here are the nature of which we really need to deal with them, and I think in these matters, they may not be so far apart from us. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir about the rules such as Of course, in certain cases, these boundaries have been tested, or at least in some cases, with regard to the Presidency and the jurisdiction of the Presidency to councils and councils after incidents. There was a situation where those limits could have been tested. Then, of course, we are referring, as in the case of violations of Congress, but also as a matter of fact. comes to mind an incident from three, four years ago when the president took some days to ask himself if he should sign the order of an appointed judge. And then you wonder, " Wait, who really has the power? ' And in such cases when the president signs the recruitment ceremony, does he really have an independent assessment of whether he signes or not?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u118	A respectable president. I think it's exactly the right thing to say, and if I can tell you about it here too, I feel like I'm snooping around. in charge of the highest. President of the Republic of Iceland, The Guðni of Th. Jóhannesson's son, his call has just been that it not only alters this section of the constitution but that if it should change this chapter, it will be clear what the limits of power are and that at least there will be any doubt about his authority, authority, authority, etc. I think we should take that challenge very seriously to our beloved President when it comes to this and explain the limits of authority. I'd love to get the opinion of the test ball too. paritaprevir Birgir, Ármannsson of a year, here at the council regarding the change in the prosecution and the Minister's responsibility, how he sees that change. I believe that there are certain promises that this is a wise step, but I would like to hear if there are any concerns he may have about the proposal he makes. I think I'll let it go for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u119	Mr. President. It really was a good question. Senator on prosecution against counsellors. As for the bill's proposal, I wanted to say, in itself, I feel positive that there are changes opened to a constitution. I really think it's a good thing that we're considering this and we're trying to get on with it. I have thought that it was really a problem that the prosecution stayed with the council. I think it in itself makes it really political whether or not the prosecution will be treated on the basis of a Minister's responsibilities, and you have, of course, certain hopes that there will be other views as valid if the State Attorney has the initiative in this. In that respect, I believe it is a positive thing that appears in Article 7. The bill, that changes are opened in this regard, so we can take it to treat. The question, though, is, Do we not need to explain more factors, and it may be a project that awaits us in the matter of the Minister's Qualification Act, whether we feel the need to determine better when it may be a challenge to the minister's responsibility in this regard? But in general, I believe that in the case of a violation of a professional minister, it may be the responsibility, which will only apply the general rules of the criminal court, and the political responsibility. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think if we start mixing these two, there's a danger.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u120	Mr. President. We're here discussing a bill for a constitution to change the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland, No. 33/194, with subsequent changes. Today, it has been noted that the Republic Constitution was adopted in 1944 by 98.5% votes of 98%. It has also been reviewed that the Constitution has been changed eight times, reviewing that 1991 was the change in the Universal Division, and 1995 was a significant review of the Constitution's human rights. The changes made and reviews have been linked with the fact that they were made in a broad agreement between political parties at any given time. When it comes to the Constitution, I feel that it is a very successful way to do so. Now it is as if a prime minister chooses, and it seems appropriate to present a bill for a change in the constitution as a Senate bill. I cannot help but say a little surprised that the prime minister chooses to compromise in this way from the tradition that could be said to have been created in that subject. I do not doubt, and believe that the prime minister has worked very hard to gain the cooperation that has been going on over the past years and years, such an agreement, and, of course, does not question the matter by any means or by any means. Mr. President. We are here at the oldest National Assembly in the world, and it states that Iceland enjoys uncircumcised international recognition as a democracies, as is the norm among those of its primary means. I allow myself to cite the respected international journal The Economist, who has researched these matters. It is a field of analysis, and reports are published in this respected magazine on the results of the tests. When you hit this to make up the Internet search engines, it's a report from the beginning of 2019 where Iceland is on the front row. Iceland is unique in this regard. The groundwork of Iceland is one of the world's top democracies, and it is recognized as an uncircumcised constitution. That's what people should have in mind. Then keep in mind that the Constitution has been normally rubbed and brushed from the Supreme Court. For an overview of the Supreme Court of Justice, which has undergone articles on the Constitution, see the European Commission's Council of Human Rights. So we stand on a very solid basis when it comes to the Constitution, and there is every reason to make adjustments as necessary in the time of caution and carefulness and in the broad agreements of normal. Mr. President. It teaches a lot of grass in the bill. The prime minister may be able to say that there is something there for everyone. I have a favorite set of songs to make, which is the law on the Icelandic language, which says that Iceland's national affairs and the government should support and protect it. I must admit, Mr. President, that my joy in this provision in the highest bill diminished somewhat. The prime minister for the change in constitution that at the same time, it is for the treatment of the General case. Minister of Justice on change of human names. It appears in the opinion of experts, which can be seen among the stories of that matter, to be said only directly, as stated to form in the opinion of Dr. Guðrún Kvaran, author of the publication the names of Icelanders, and to know the Icelandic man - made vocabularies, to make arrangements in the bill a way for the language and denting systems of Icelandic people. This is a administrative bill that is dangerous, that the decision of the most skilled experts, could be expressed as a violation of a law at the top of the bill. Prime Minister before it is even legalized. The bill has several factors to mention. Of course, there will be reviews. and all that. But before I get to that, I must be sure I'm at least I have felt very sorry for the way some have chosen to talk about the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland, to speak it down, to speak of it with sneering words, and even to talk about it because of its origin, if we think back to 1874 when we accepted a paternal liberation file, as the poet put it, as it were, some sort of a foreign product in Icelandic society. She certainly is not. It has proved to be good and deserves to be handled with caution, caution, and respect. Mr. President. If I were to kill down in just a few places on the top bill. To begin with, a minister is hard to see that some of the provisions are for a direct reason. You realize, for example. Not every reason for the principle that was discussed here most recently has to do with business management. Have there been any problems with decisions made during the working time? But for me to take this in a row, we'll be in pars. President of Iceland. There is a suggestion to adopt the priorities of an elected president. It is hard to see why it is done or what it calls for. We don't have a presidency like the Americans or the French, so you don't see why. Likewise, you do not realize why, suddenly, a tablecloth is suggested for a six - year term. We've been living with the rule for a very long time in total elections, county elections, and elections for the office of the President of Iceland that we have a four-year term. It is hard to understand this proposal, as well as believe that there are reasons to tie up a president to not allow more than two terms to enter. Why would the Allied council take the court from the Icelandic nation, if she is pleased with her president, to reexamine him to office? It is also strange in the 8th century. g., there's a whole new rule that's a kind of application to the Congress Order. The Constitution is a traditional rule of government, and it is not a matter of reviewing or enforcing a constitution. But 8th. is a kind of supplement, which means that a president is permitted to request the General's declaration of support or neutrality before a new government is formed. Of course, this raises many questions and leads to uncertainty. Mr. President. I'm running out of time. 16th degree. has turned to 26. The Constitution, and this is the article that is familiar with the President's authority to appeal to the nation, a language adopted by the General, to pay national fees. Then it adds: However, within five days of the President's incarceration, the Allied Council does not cancel the law. I think everyone realizes that this five-day rule can hardly be used to any realistic view. There's an article on nature protection. It is quite innocent and does nothing to make a public declaration like this: ▪ Iceland's nature is the basis of life in the country. It's like this in general. However, the law has become a responsibility that could have a legal significance and a question about any responsibility that is discussed in this article. It also discusses the public's right to information on the environment, of course, fine, and the impact of implementation. Then it adds:•and to participate in the preparation of decision-making that affects the environment, to be prepared. This, of course, raises questions. Also, questions in the resource policy are raised that the term "Environmental Resources" in Iceland does not appear to be defined nor does the term "suspectable innovation." It says that resources are to be used in a sustainable way. This raises questions. Of course, there may be other things, Mr. President, but in view of the fact that my time is over, I'm going to be content with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u121	President. Hv. At the beginning of his talk, a senator spoke of the changes in government. I wondered if two thirds of the voters in the U.S. National Remuneration are not open to agreement. Yes, it was just within 50% of what is like campaign participation in Switzerland, where there are a lot of national regulations. There is no evidence to suggest that the conclusion was somewhat distorted, that the other 50% who did not choose paid somehow different votes. We're talking about an increase in the proportion of the nation's population wanting a administrative bill to be submitted to a new constitution. How does that differ from being at peace with the laws of government?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u122	Madam President. Thanks for the answer. We've had this conversation here before. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson and me. In fact, I have to admit that I am amazed that he is holding this up as he does, that he may contribute so much to the vote he referred to in 2012. He mentioned his own rather modest participation. Of course, it is very difficult to draw from this vote of large - scale conclusions. He himself noted that the phrase used there would be the setting up of the bill of a governing body. What does that mean? I've met people who get it so that they should just take this document from their administration and legalize it. Others have said to me: " I can see that this means that you should have a point in mind. In view of this, I cannot conclude that some clear national will was pronounced in this vote 2012. There's just no way to see it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u123	A respectable president. Skeezy participation, as I said, is similar to that in Switzerland's national pay, where there are a lot of national regulations. Hv. A senator is a member of a former senator who immediately said that there was a stretching concept. Let's not wear the wigs. It's very easy to go in a dictionary and see what the basic meaning is. That doesn't mean much change. Not much of a change. Looking it up is not too complicated. That is the obvious understanding of all who want to understand it but do not wear hairs about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u124	Madam President. I can't help but express surprise at this speech. Senator. Of course, when I said some small involvement, I had in mind the participation that we are to get used to here in Iceland, not in Switzerland, where things are different. We must take into account Icelandic situations. I don't know what dictionary that's like. A senator testifies that the wording applied to the very essence he had here contains the meaning that if I understood the reason why it was not to be removed, it would be to a very limited extent. A senator is correct. Of course, the burden of proof rests only on the ground. A senator to show that this expression has the meaning that he labors to argue here today and so often before. Of course it is. A senator perfectly free to beat his head at the stone in this matter as often as he chooses, but in the event of any general language. A senator will respect him for something, if it is natural that setting the basis is not an expression that has fallen in order to draw from it as dramatically as it is. A senator seems to be doing. That is why this vote is not used in 2012 in such a way as to be proselytized. A senator keeps saying things like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u125	V.E.G. President. It is not long since the proposal for a resolution on the definition of resources was adopted here at the council, and I would like to discuss that matter in this discussion today, since the resource directive has taken a considerable time in the discussion. With this proposal, the plan was to hide environmental and resource administrators from resource rights, environmental resources and environmental rights to write a bill to a law that defined what was considered to be a resource in this country and what Iceland's resources were. We haven't seen this bill yet, but I understand this was approved at the council on June 19, 2019. In my knowledge, it is an important basis for this discussion here on the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland. If we first discuss natural resources in general, there are a number of natural resources that play an important role in production or have a major impact on people's well - being. They don't depend on property. They are therefore not marketed and are not capable of controlling their use in the market. It is good to keep that in mind before continuing, for such natural resources are in danger of being overused, sometimes to the point that they are completely destroyed. Other resources are subject to some kind of control. If we discuss the concept of a resource, it is very wide and includes many aspects of society. It is estimated that all aspects of nature, earth, life, water, sunlight, and air can be considered to be natural resources. Resources can be defined as national property, such as fish stocks. However, the government's involvement includes many resources other than those directly considered national property. In other words, natural resources can be a direct part of consumption, e.g. Displacements and/or hunting areas for wild animals, if we take any examples. The resources that are not considered to be natural resources are the nature of the problem, for example. manure, knowledge systems, various databases, and other similar tasks created by humans. The definition of natural resources can be seen in the report of a resource committee published in 2000, and many here have studied. Me and the Icelanders are also involved in all of mankind's resources, if we cross the landstones, such as in the resources of the ocean, the sunlight, and the atmosphere. Therefore, we share as participants, and often the precursor of such resources is defined on the basis of international agreements in which individual countries have their rights and obligations. Thus, these resources fall under national custody. With some simple information, it can be said that the resource concept applies to any quality, though limited. In general, because of resource ownership, there have been controversy over property. I'm not going to go into that discussion here because I still feel like we're missing how to define resources. Should there be ownership and use of one resource in excess of others? The Senate resolution that was approved here, and I mentioned at the outset, says, by permission of the president: Since this is the case, it can be assumed that the natural resources rights of this country are basically two types of Icelandic rights: 1st The special rights of individuals or legislators named private property and those who use it properly for all kinds of resources as long as they are not restricted by the law or by the rights of others. 2. The rights of the State, therefore given by specific laws, is a special form of property. What understands that the above state's rights and the government's exclusive rights may be that, as with any other legal entity, the State has been entrusted with the special right of property in a shelter that no individuals or lawyers can prove their special rights to the natural resources involved. This is a very complex discussion, but over the past few decades many natural resources have been under way. Thus, nations have developed ways to use natural resources in a practical way and have been used to benefit all. We can mention water in this regard. Thus it has been found that many natural resources that previously seemed unlimited are not, and they have become limited resources. When this occurs, there is a danger that unlimited access will lead to overindulging and waste. These problems can be managed by limiting access to the resources using a defined ownership rights or by setting rules for their use. That is what needs to be discussed, but not so that there is only one sector. There is a wide range of ways to obtain natural resources in this country. We, the lawgiver, can decide to let those who use the resource pay in one way or another a price to the community for its use, whether in terms of payment in the form of taxes or on the service fees, which need to be universal. During its implementation, the objective and equilibrium should be maintained. An outstanding example of land - to - resource currency was the silicon factory at Lake Myy. The company was then charged with paying rent fees for the use of the resource in the public of Mey water, so I'll mention an example of another resource cost than what has to do with the seaside. I have this speech to say that there are more resources, and I feel that there is a shortage of them here this afternoon. But it's clear to everyone. Congress officials and other people have many good things to offer, and we may need to continue our discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u126	V.E.G. President. I did not finish all the words I was going to say in my first talk and even the rest of my speech. not about the resources that all of this is more or less about. This has somehow caught up in the discussion, and the public is really trying to convince us that we need a constitution of resources so that we can achieve a reasonable amount of money directly into the state's budget. That's a big misunderstanding, chief. Mr President, we need a resource law to do that. We run it by law, and it's on the basis of national sovereignty which cost is paid for using a resource, whether it's the sea resources or anyone else. And we have. Today, those with a right to fish have to pay for one third of fishing profits. Then you hear in the discussion, and you saw in the news yesterday that some party leaders believe it's too small because it's only about that. one tenth of the profits of the largest companies. Of course, it is forgotten that these large companies have different functions. Their profits do not come from fishing. In some companies, profits even include fishing abroad, which enters the world as a result of which money is paid for by human profit. But somehow people have been led to believe that, and I want to tell people the truth that we're not getting any money directly into the state fund of this resource. There's something else. It's a whole third of what we take that's very high. Other professions simply do not have to put up with this on all other profits. All I'm saying is we don't need any resource regulations to get any money into the state fund. Of course, the big discussion is that not all of this is the greatest money in the nation's population by having the taxes as high as possible. This money is even more useful in other places as a income for a wealth of government. It has also been claimed that this is an essential provision for temporary use. Of course, we can have them for a while. We can decide that after a certain number of years slips out, e.g. ... tofish, we can say in 25 years, that the art department for which the company has only expired. And then we can debate whether it's wise and if it's the best thing to do for a nation. True, I don't think that this is, of course, the most important of all. You can also ask if a definition of national property is necessary. I don't understand, either, because we decide on the basis of sovereignty rights how we use all the resources we have here. We don't have to make the fish some kind of national property. Let us not make the wind or the sea such a national possession because someone uses it. We just decide how these resources should be used. It's politics every day, and that's how we do it, and that's how we deal with it, what makes sense to national preparation, and what's the most sensible use of all resources national resources is at any given time. It may vary from time to time. But as soon as we start putting something like that in a constitution, that can really be unnecessary. I'd like to avoid it. I don't want a constitution if I don't have to, and I don't want to talk about it if there's a problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u127	A respectable president. I come running here to give the answer to this good night. A senator, who is in law 101, is listening to his talks today. Hv. A senator has talked a lot about resource expenditures, etc. I'll think of 2013 when a different board pattern was used, and then a bill of changing hunting fees against loud protests left greens was submitted at the time. As it turned out, the largest ones in the field, ten of the largest companies, paid 75% of the resource charge or fishing fee and then less. But it was as if the blessed beast understood, and the left green gave a bill that was just the same in 2017, if I remember correctly, so it now depends on the winds as well. But I've stayed for a while. A senator has said about this simplicity in the constitution. Here today's word on time, that the Constitution should take some note of the duration. I began to think, because I'm so old, that we and the constitution probably missed some updates in 1964, 1974, 1984, if the party was supposed to have played some rabble there. So I want to pray. A senator is just more aware of the problems he is facing with access to resources and resources into a constitution and how it complicates matters for us.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u128	V.E.G. President. I'm of the opinion that getting into a constitution that won't, as we know, so easily changed, taking something called a full price can cause us trouble. It can also create disagreements on what is a total price, etc. We create a particular problem, and then we cannot change it so that we hide courts to figure out what is the total amount at any given time, etc. That's what we're supposed to do here in the politics every day in my mind, explaining how we're going to tax or charge from the sector and resources. That's a much simpler way. We're supposed to do it by law. I know that many people want to have it in the constitution that something is national possession, which is completely modern, and I don't recognize such provisions in Western democracies. To me, it's a mixture of populism and socialism, which, of course, work out very well together as I understand it. It's so easy to get people to say, "Yes, this is mine, it's something I have. But this is absolutely unnecessary because property rights don't exist that way in my mind. Of course, they're just our resources just like Iceland is our country and the sea is ours, the wind is ours. There's only a set of rules about what we put at any given time. It's the most important thing. I don't think it's good that we're making these rules because it's actually gonna create a lot more trouble than the arrangement we're doing right now. I don't want to. I think it's very harmful. I think I've had some pretty good argument here all day that this isn't a good idea.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u129	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. As a result, there are, of course, more resources here than the fish in the ocean and I might have liked to hear on top of it. Senator on other resources. He was here talking about wind, and I remember that, for example. that the water rights of one fine church land in the Valley of the River, though it is the natural state from one pocket to another, were extremely low when Kárian's disease activation got to the ground. In effect, I have to say, too, that Steinólfur, the late farmer of Furradal, saw there blessed boy, was a great enthusiast of wind stations, but never brought them up, and he sought relief from taxes because of lost income because he had not installed windmills. In other words, he had lost his income from the wind. I wanted to go for it. Senator on other resources. It's the energy in the centre of the earth. There's water rights that aren't all owned by the State, and that's why I now mentioned this church farm in the East because it might as well have been a individual, and this was completely absurdly low. Shall we set some frame on this? Does it belong in the constitution? A country is a resource, as it has clearly been seen in the last year when people buy land for several billion. There's a resource. Do you want us to type this into the constitution as well? I wanted to get a second opinion. A senator on this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u130	V.E.G. President. I don't want people to get me wrong and think I don't want men to pay money or fish fees because what I call common resources is being used. When we are talking about limited resources, limited wealth, and there's no room for everyone to use them, and they get the right to use them, they pay for them. But it's also so that it's only done in the laws of each time, and we measure the positions each time because sometimes you're ready to use resources and be pioneers, make something, and there's no basis for laying any price on it at first. Then, when people move on with it, and it becomes a resource that is exploited by them, it is only natural that we begin to evaluate what is normal cost for those who receive the primament rights, for example. or few. Then it's very normal. I'm not an opponent at all to think it's a resource fee. I'm just saying I don't think any of this belongs to a constitution. A constitution is just everything else to me. That's the list of our board of command. That is the basic law and the record of our rights to governments. That's all that belongs to me. We're supposed to be able to deal with this at any given time. Of course, even when it comes to the idea that nature can enjoy human rights, humans can add to something new. There is another discussion that, of course, I don't like it. But these are these things where I say, "Hey, don't mix it in a constitution." [[The president calls.]] In that case, sooner or later we will be in trouble.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u131	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The armourer of the son of Níelsson for his speech. He talked about the fishing business. I was fighting back before what? paritaprevir Birgir Ármannsson asked him into this section of resources in the constitution that somehow ends when we discuss these matters with these resources due to sea products. I thought it was in a speech. The senator, and his talks today, have shown that this upset him. Actually, I have to agree. When we talk about these matters, and when groups come in, as has happened, talking about auction routes, or looking to other countries, we can be reminded that modern fishing is sustainable. This is not usually mentioned in the discussion. But I wanted to ask you what. A senator will see to it how we can get the discussion on these matters that the common people do their ears and are actually going to believe us politicians and what we're saying. The attack is always in a way that makes the fishing road rich - just a few of these are spoken of, and that they should pay much more. So there is no basis for reasonableness in the discussion. [[The president calls.]] How can we look for new ways to get the discussion to a better level in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u132	V.E.G. President. I can say what. Senator I'm not hoping that we'd get this discussion to a fair or normal channel, especially after I listened to the newly elected backup plan Back in action last night on the fishing fee and the use of the resource. I thought to myself, " Where are we? ' When we're using resources - even if they are private, which we can also manage on the basis of the Empire - it's all about the most useful arrangements we've got, that we're strong sustainable companies and businesses. That's our advantage. The benefits are not always seen how much we can take into the government fund with taxation. Do they believe that all this fishing investment would not have resulted in this powerful business? No, we would have only been in the old fishing road, uplifted to a bone, which would be a huge cost to the taxpayers in fact. But now we're overwhelmed by the fact that some company is making money in the water because it's our resource. Iceland is ours. It's all ours. I'm just saying, of course, we can discern what's the most intelligent system in the world, but it's all about how we have the environment so that companies can be powerful, they can make money, they're ready to put money on it, and they're gonna grow. Then there will be a sacrifice of respect, a new birth is another word for it. It's important. That's the nation's advantage, not taxation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u133	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this clear answer. I want to be just optimistic in the expectations that we will achieve this discussion on some fun plan but that we've been living for a lot of years. I am now so old that I can see it, and I was at sea before the quota system was invented. Then, more and less was made in the arms of the state. At that time, they had all kinds of practice to lower the crown. So I think this system proved itself to be a very good system. But the compression has been mainly caused by the dissatisfaction debate having grassy, especially here at the General Assembly of Groups, who want to do something completely different than we're doing. That's why these mediums have just sold themselves away to get away from this and start doing something else. That's when the big stuff gets fat, and it's got the tools and tools to survive. But there is one thing I would like to ask. The senator into whom I know I have to fix. I've also asked a seafaring minister about this, i.e. The height of 12%, the roof that I'm thinking of, really, is snorkeled. It must be oversealed so that it does not leak. The people must believe that they are saved. We need to get this fixed up. Then I think there is much more likely to be settled in the fishing business and fishing system we live in today's.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u134	V.E.G. President. It's good to go. A senator is optimistic than I am with the discussion. To this day, I still listen to the discussion every day. It's like stealing the resource from us, you know, a donor parvot, it's all wrong. While the discussion is still at this stage, even in this Hall of Congress, and when people who are respected in the community speak that way, even God's people, surely there is no good. But I'm ready to take the discussion. I'm not saying it's a perfect system, and it doesn't know how to make any changes. Of course, people should only convince me that they are for the better. Hv. A senator speaks of a total of 12% roof. I've often said that these high fishing costs, which have been long and were naturally higher, i.e. For 2013, if it be not for this tribute, less will not be made for this tribute. There is no profit in this way. However, large productions that also profit from other activities can pay. I don't think it's normal. I can honestly say that, yes, 12% roof, if there's any problem with it, we just need to fix it and if we're gonna have covered by 12% or 10% or 14% or any roof we're gonna have. [[For example: '-'- '-'- '- '- '- '- '- '- '- '- '- '- '- '- '- '- '- '- '- '- ……]] As you say in a foreign language. But this is a system that has made us very useful. This system's open. Those assigned here on the basis of 1983 fishing experience are virtually all gone. It's all gone for sale. Those who have thought that they could do better than that have bought goodbye and had a job done, and some have just done a great job. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u135	The President reminds us that the matter is Icelandic.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-11-54.u136	Madam President. I'm not going to have many words here at the end of this discussion, and I'm not going to open up a new discussion, but I want to use this opportunity because I've been watching 1st. Which has stood in the utmost part of two days, ending the matter a great and important matter, and thanking her for it. I think this discussion has been a good one. I think interesting views have appeared, certainly different, but also considerable support for the changes in the President and Commission section. Some people don't see the need for these changes; others point out that they need to be explained further, and it must be carried out by a management committee. I'd also like to say that I like to hear that there is considerable support to the environmental protection and protection regulations, and I'm going to use this opportunity to challenge the enormous importance of the Constitution that there will not remain silent on that subject. It is very much appreciated in the bill's report what our neighbors have been doing in this regard and based on their experience so that I encourage the members of the council who will be considering these matters over the next few weeks to learn about it. I have no doubt that this would produce much progress for the legal and legal environment of environment and nature protection. Since I have not heard any regulations about Icelandic language and sign language speaking, you can be happy that the language and sign language have quite a lot of friends in these sales. Clearly, this is the law of great controversy, and it does not have to be surprising. Still, I'm going to say that I've had a good discussion. Because he who spoke before me, my friend. paritaprevir Empressing Níelsson, said that there was no particular optimism about the trend in the fishing business, I decided to recall a discussion presented here on the proposed extensive changes in that system, and I gave it a bill in the absence of the then sea - fishing minister of the Council of 2011-2012. I think we have full opportunity to develop this discussion better, just by discussing the resource directive, which, of course, is not only about fish, but also about other issues that have been debated at the General Assembly, and it is enough to mention the energy issues. We must not forget that while the fishing system is controversial, energy and energy activities have also broken down the entire hall and the nation. I am very grateful that the members of the council have been prepared to come up here and discuss this matter materially. It gives me the expectation that the work of the management and monitoring committee will be able to bring good work into 2nd. ... aboutthiscase.
