ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-70.u1	A respectable president. I recommend a greater part of the General and Education Committee on this matter. The majority of the committee submitted this bill last week and have had it treatable. In fact, only the change in temporary sources of financial reorganization that we agreed on in the last spring can be assumed to be that the period for which these provisions can be applied will be extended to the next few years. It went to the end of the year and it wasn't extended, but we would accept this bill to open up the possibility until the end of the year. Of course, the primary reason why the bill has been delivered is that when we discussed the matter, the Koron virus epidemic has lasted much longer than we realized. The committee, by presenting the bill and in its payment on the case now between discussions, does not really make any changes other than the ones involved in these dates, and then changes in the reference period in view of our having a reference period further than when the case was taken in the first place. Comments that were made on the part of the visitors during the visits of the Committee largely covered two aspects. On the one hand, there was a measure of danger and would have been an example of an enterprise that had been severely damaged by the time of the crowning virus, or before its impact could have taken advantage of this strategy that may not have been planned. Of course, on this point we have to, in the context of such measures, keep it open and accessible enough to achieve its purpose. It is that in some cases some non-employers can enjoy it; however, they should not be too rigid or overly narrow so that it will be impossible for companies who are naturally involved in business to seek help on that basis. This is true, as is true of many other measures taken in the wake of the crown virus epidemic. The other point that we take up a few words in a committee article is about the interaction of these laws, the temporary right to be fixed, and the remuneration to pay. There were indications by the National Association of Pension Funds, which the committee considers as a basis for further consideration. However, since the committee was paying only attention to the dates but not to the material conditions of the financial restructuring and the right effect - we decided not to go into it in this session - we will be content, so to speak, in the commission to refer to and encourage this to be considered in the subsequent payment of this case, i.e. to consider the interaction of these sources on financial reorganization and the rules of responsible payment, especially on deadlines. I'm not going to go into this any further, Mr. President, but I'm going to refer to what's in the committee's opinion. In addition to the printed page, under the heading "Apprehensiblely. " Councilmen Páll Magnússon, Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir Árnadóttir, in advance, Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir Gunnsdótttir, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Guinsdotir, Þinanu Tóri Aárnadótir, Sabídur Gunundóttir, and Þögsteinna Sæmundsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-70.u2	Mr. President. This is a very important issue taken up by earlier measures caused by the Covid pandemic. The time of their action has proved to be low, short, due to the growth of this epidemic. So it was proposed to contribute this matter, and it has been very solely established in a universal and educational committee that should be brought to the attention. Everyone has worked together to see that the matter would be settled at the council quickly and without doubt, for there is a rich interest. There are firms that have fought behind and behind, and see that without the extension, as presented here, their business might be upset. Of course, we, Mr. President, would like to keep a company from being blown up more than the word has become from the outbreak. I just wanted to state that, as an agent of the committee's opinion and supporters of this case, we're going to take care of it very quickly and very carefully. I'm very supportive.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-70.u3	President. I just wanted to come up here to explain why I wasn't on the committee's opinion. I don't want it to part in such a way that Pirats are opposed to being helped by small and medium-sized companies because of problems caused by Covid. I just wanted to make it clear that I wasn't quite able to grasp how it went through the committee, it was the formal show that was just interrupting me. I know this is just to extend this particular date, but it was also stated in the Committee that not many companies have made use of this authority. Then there were other guests who may not necessarily object to this but who were so concerned about the situation. I see the point of extending these deadlines, but I may not have fully realized the point. I'm not gonna have this any further.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-70.u4	A respectable president. I come up here primarily to declare support for this matter and to make clear the warning I have for its payment. It is a very important matter of interest to companies who are involved in this special problem that we do not need many words about and that we all know about why and in many cases are crazy and hopefully temporary. Here we are dealing with a temporary problem that arises for special reasons. True, the voices were heard by visitors who appeared before the committee that, in some cases, it could be called a scavenger, i.e. that there were also people who had been in serious error long before Covid's day, and even before difficulties began in tourism and that they had an unsatisfactory shelter. I don't think it's about what it's about. The General and Education Committee to resolve the current situation and, as it were, we are alone in extending already existing resources and have proved to be effective in various matters. I'll sign the Commission's opinion in advance, and I'll see that I think it's important, and I would have thought it was important, that at the same time it had been submitted a bill, as was done together with a similar bill in May. and was about the social security history, the rules against the social security domains. There was a bill to fix the law on bankruptcy, etc., No. 21/1191. I would've liked to see that bill at the same time because I think it's connected, and that's where we could have handled the villain's dress. On the one hand, my lord objected that I had wanted to see in this regard there are suggestions that would have similar and comparable resources for homes and people who are now in pain to bind and have problems due to the loss of income caused by Covid that require financial reorganization. When I say so, I declare the cohesion - to this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-70.u5	A respectable president. I agree with what you're saying. Sæmundsson There was a monopoly on the General and Education Committee on the importance of this case and a quick payment on the Committee. This, of course, is an urgent matter, has interests behind it, and in itself an independent aim to eliminate the uncertainty of the operators that in this process and this operation would be extended. It has already been observed, and it is clear that there is a temporary source, but in view of the precise uncertainty behind it, I felt that it was a critical time for the committee to deal with the situation. It was in my mind, and most people, I'd like to say, realize that this had to be done. This cannot be true in this situation, so the government is at least Involved to increase the uncertainty of business management in the current situation. I'm on the committee opinion in view of what I've mentioned above, i.e. that these rich interests are behind them. I call attention to what is stated in the committee's opinion that there has been a concern regarding the extension of these measures, which may have led to the continuation of responsibilities outside of a responsible period, i.e. Accountable funds. However, as mentioned in the committee's opinion, the committee emphasizes that, following this bill's approval, the regulations of the law will be reviewed and the implementation will be re-evaluated, including the case. for the interaction of these factors. I'm glad that we were able to work fast and well on this matter, and I'm glad to see it going on here today.
