ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u1	There have been letters received from the Department of Social Affairs where the request is made in order to provide written answers to panel requests. 711, about the percentage of extracurricular activities due to the Covid-19 pandemic, from Elíasdóttir Fárfjörður, the daughter of Elisabjörður. 650, about the sex ratios of children's protection institutions, from Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Issu, and on the threshing floor. 544, about a number of pension workers who receive reduced payments for their former home abroad, from Sara Elísa Þórðardóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u2	To answer, Prime Minister, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Health Ministers, Foreign and Development Ministers and Education and Culture Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u3	A respectable president. I would like to attract the attention of the world of Congress and of those who are listening to a tremendous report made and delivered to the highest degree. Secretary of state. I'd like to commend the highest. Foreign Minister for being joined by people who have a lot of experience and knowledge to continue to share. The committee was led by a former minister of foreign affairs, Aphesar the Össur of Skarphéðinsson. I don't always think of it as a recommendation when reports are long, but this 215 - page report clearly shows how important it is for us Icelanders to follow a report like this and is the basis for the work we are doing. I'm on a committee as the highest. The minister of foreign affairs has ordered us to set a heading north, and we received Össur at our last meeting of the Committee. I want to agree with him that we need to focus more fully on our dealings, not just with the Faeroe Islands, but also with Greenland. Politically, it is important for us and economics as well as for certain social issues that we can communicate and also receive mutual support. You are a bit incarcerated after reading such a counterargulated report, which has very cront and clear suggestions, realistic, not some form of paper, but just very clearly speculative suggestions related to the physical world and showing a measure of ambition. If we do this right, then there is an incredible opportunity for us to strengthen and strengthen these ties that will be important to us Icelanders, I hope also Greenlanders, but not to us now that we are increasingly moving to the north, not only economic and political, but also from defense and security reasons, so we need to link all of this together. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, if he is not going to rush into simply putting in a synonym, which I know he's told and would like to encourage him to bring along as soon as possible, which has even been built. in this report so that we can begin here at the council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u4	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter for this introduction and question. Hv. A senator well knows these matters from his work. I wholeheartedly agree with her when it comes to making suggestions in this report. They're 99 and I don't think they're going to be carried out just the way they're laid out. But I think this is a good guide for the different people, in Iceland, to be the 40 people mentioned there, to go and work on it as planned. A senator referred to strengthening and strengthening the connection between Iceland and Greenland. I'm not going to repeat it as a matter of course. A senator said. My idea was just that. As indicated by both of us, we agree on our goals. What I feel is that we are working at achieving these goals in an orderly way. I'm very pleased to hear that this is a political reconciliation, as it turns out. A senator, and I've never heard anything else from any other senator. There is a political agreement that as a northern nation, we are drawing closer to our closest neighbors. It's in everyone's best interest. Hv. There's a senator here asking about the interpretation proposal that I have, like, the what? A senator pointed to it, declaring that it is in preparation. But I think it really matters that she's as good as possible. I think we should be able to get it and say it. A senator's hopes are high. I can't say I'm surprised. It would have surprised me if I did. A senator would have had a tone different from what he saw about this matter. This encouragement of the senator matters, and I promise her that we will continue working on this matter in full order so that the council can handle it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u5	Mr. President. Yeah, that was important and good to hear. True, these are 99 suggestions, but there are still ten policies and, in fact, all of them can be taken. I even want to. bring attention to it, because it's the highest. The Minister of Education is also here, the construction of telecommunications and the use of the University of Akureyri, the support of vulnerable, especially with the focus of Eastern Europe and a difficult situation where we try to develop and provide certain expertise etc. I also mention search and rescue, as well as the fact that an agreement will be made in the medical field and that we will come up in a northern home, whether in Reykjavík or in the north or in the north or in the University of Akureyri. I think it's very important that we get this as soon as possible, and that's why I'm celebrating. Minister. I hope that my sad words here from this chair will cause him to speed up that work. The restoration has encouraged and supported the government during this ideal period for all good works, and it will not be changed. I would like to stress that I feel that there is no reason to wait until the last minute to make a pact proposal. It's an election in the fall. I'd appreciate it if we'd made this council resolution before the end of the council, and I'd like to state the support of our restoration to work on the fact that the matter will be settled from this council as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u6	A respectable president. Just so it's clear, it's not like there's something waiting on it. However, there is no question that it is not just that we need to go to the Senate resolution, but we also need, because of the reaction we have received at the report, to follow this thing. I wasn't speaking it down to perform these suggestions at all, not at all. As I say, there are a lot of people who are coming to this. There wasn't one minister, it wasn't one agency, it wasn't one ministry. It's about me and the Icelanders working on it with the Greenlands - we've got their response, they're very clear - reaching goals that are shown in the report. It would be great if all 99 suggestions were to be carried out, but because you know that when things develop, we may not be going to do exactly that. But I have no doubt that there is a basis for great success in these matters. Hv. A senator should not belittle his own words, for it is of great importance that one of the rulers of the government act and speak in a manner that is appropriate. A senator did. Thank you very much, and I especially thank you for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u7	A respectable president. 72% student work to study. Perhaps the most remarkable thing is that it shows up in students that since January 1, 2010, students, by the law of unemployment reform rights, have paid four billion on unemployment insurance, 4 billion is the result of calculations, and therefore students make clear requirements for reasonable and adequate terms for academic education and the right to unemployment equal to other working people. Through the Korean virus epidemic, governments have not been compared to the large student population that cannot be regarded as permanent solutions for long periods of time. Thus, they are left behind at the same time as work is hard to meet the economic impact of the epidemic in other areas of society. Long-term solutions to financial security for all students are necessary and the student council demands its right to unemployment and up-to-date education in students. A political will must be there to ensure financial security for students. Like students, I ask, don't students deserve better? It's a Covid thing, isn't it? Aren't they losing their job because of Covid? Is it not the time to seize all those who have suffered such calamities, unemployment, and not even to pay for their rent and not to eat? That must be the point. If we're going to help someone because of Covid, we must try to help everyone, don't we?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u8	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Kristinsson's film for taking up the subjects of students' students' subjects, but I must remind them that their case has been in the foreground for the government, both by supporting much more at the university level than was previously done by further contributions to university and research and science and by taking special Covid-related actions in the last summer, which I also take to a lesser degree. A senator on. On the other hand, they were aimed at ensuring qualified summer jobs in cooperation with rural society, and the New World Translation Fund of students was very successful. When that procedure was taken, students could see the tremendous interest in engaging in projects related to their study of pay. The student's education fund is certainly not a covid-related resource, but a part of the government's policy of meeting students in this country. That bill was adopted here at the General Assembly last assembly, and it's about that part of the progress of students is now strength rather than loan. Of course, it doesn't hold any conclusions when it comes to the fact that students were left behind. It certainly is not. A number of matters that the government has been working to meet just this group. Then I'm not talking about general operations that are useful for young people, to develop young people with children who have been exposed to higher child support, taxation that is primarily useful to the income, etc. True, students have been part of the big picture. Of course, more people today are attending studies than ever according to current rates from the university, suggesting that many have decided to engage in these strange times in which we live, perhaps because of the economic situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u9	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister, the answers. But I would point out that students say that they paid four billion dollars in a non-employment insurance budget and they don't get any of it back. It is minimal that they receive some of that money back. And why should those who are working with a degree and actually work on a double job, not get one? There is a group that falls between ships and docks, and some who are falling out of unemployment right now have tried to get all the work offered. I know one who fell out of unemployment right now at the end of the year. He had done everything he could to get a job, had come to the tourist business of driving buses, but fell out of them now for the years, doesn't know if he's got any rent or anything. He is told to get social benefits, but he will not get them if his spouse has any income. He's only in a vicious circle. We must have to grab these people too. We can't just say, " Just eat what's outside because we're not going to do anything for you. ' It doesn't make sense. They don't really pay rent and don't feed their children.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u10	Mr. President. I should recall that at the time it was the decision of the government of the Left Motion and the Conspiracies, who decided to make a suggestion here at the council, that I am reminded by a much greater degree, to change the academic reform rights, i.e. those who are considered to be primary students. It was done because of the experience after a crash, that change was under attack. Instead, it was decided to try to ensure a future for students and focus on improving the support systems of students, then through the Icelandic Board of Education, now through the Scholars' Education Fund. In fact, it has been the same view that the government has fundamentally held, i.e. that, of course, we should try to ensure a forward movement for the students, just as we have to ensure the advancement of all. We do this through the powerful support systems of the Education and ensure that students have some business in summer, as we truly did during the summer, and I think we have seen a return, not only in jobs but also in increased knowledge. I mention again the New World Fund of students, one of the best tools we have to further our knowledge and ensure the advancement of students.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u11	Mr. President. In the United States, there are two basics to which there is an Icelandic language. The Prime Minister makes it his proposal to change the Constitution that Iceland's state language should be supported and protected by the government. The same applies to Icelandic Sign Language. The second bill is passed by the Minister of Justice and is about a change in human names. Based on knowledge bases on the latter bill, these bills are not compatible. Because of the time, I can only quote one story, which is from Dr. Guðrún Kvaran. It is the author of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York's Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania. Interestingly, the design of the bill has not been consulted by people who have become familiar. In his review, Guðrún Kvaran recalls that the Ministry of Education and Culture has given rise to efforts to promote the English language. It says that if we do, we should celebrate and add, by permission of the president: ...but not long afterward, a bill is presented that directly violates the Icelandic language and denting system, the administrative bill. Unbelievable.How's it going? His view is Guðrún by a Gudrún with reference to the rules of the bill and the articles. In view of the harsh criticism of the Kvaran and other highly respected scholars of the prime minister of justice, I ask the highest. Prime Minister: Does she believe that with a bill of legal justice, it is the State's right to support and protect the English language? Supports the highest. Prime Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u12	Mr. President. Thank you. Ólafur If Ísleifsson is needed for the inquiry, we hope that here we can meet together for the change proposed in my bill to the constitution that Icelandic language and Icelandic Sign Language receive a administrative position. I hope we can also get together on more changes in that bill, so I'll tell you right here. With regard to Icelandic language, the government and the government have offered some suggestions here for the General, who have had extensive support. In particular, I would like to mention that funding has been greatly increased in response to technological change, since in the digital world it has to be paid. It is safe to say that they needed action. This is not new, but it certainly took effort, and I am very happy with the work that has been done during this ideal period of work. For a bill at the highest. Minister of Justice, if ever. A senator in particular makes a subject of change of human names, I'd like to say that I supported that bill's donation. I have supported and submitted, through the sex - self - discipline laws, certain motions to ensure increased freedom when it comes to human names, but with the clear warning that I thought it was very important to do so. A global and educational committee would be very comfortable with that bill, given the views as appropriate. A senator mentions, i.e. Whether the changes in the terms of liberation, which can be said to have been called after the Council is discussed, there is a danger to Icelandic language and Icelandic language. I view it as the role of the Committee to do so. I have also studied reviews, and I know that some of them are critical, although not all aspects of the bill at all, but some of it does. I expect the committee to do this very well and to come to a conclusion on that subject. I don't think we can ignore the fact that it has been, as I say, an interest in discussing these legislations, and I don't think the General should fear that conversation, but there we have to make up the other hand the liberality and the will that the Council has shown many times to protect Icelandic language. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u13	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I noticed that a minister spent most of his time discussing matters other than this bill. I couldn't hear the highest, either. A minister gives support to this bill's success. I'm going to allow me to use the few seconds I have to quote two people who wrote reviews about the bill. It's Hrafn Sveinbjarnarson Bearson on one side who said, by permission of the President: THE human names of men are an important inheritance that is worthy of best submission to future generations. It's not a personal matter. It's a social matter. A few people with their own language cannot afford to expose these cultural elements. That harm will not be undone. I'm also going to be able to quote James's Jakobsson son, who says, by permission of a president: ▪ Longbest remains legal in human names for an Icelandic language. I'm going to finish my speech by encouraging the highest. Pronunciation of this matter, the prime minister avoided any accident that would happen if this bill were to be done here at the Great General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u14	Mr. President. In fact, I used more of my time here to discuss this bill so that I can share that correction with you. A senator. I'd like to say that the Minister of Justice prepared this matter well. On the other hand, it is a difficult task to consider the arguments that have increased freedom in the human name laws and the Icelandic language. Let us also be aware that the present arrangement may not be the very best that can be achieved in these matters. This is relatively new and not wrong with the needle. But I think about it, and it has already taken place, that it is of course important that this case be opened up, that the council will be able to handle these narratives and roads, and meet these normal views. That's what I'll do when the case comes settled. In fact, I trusted the committee to do that work with the precise viewpoint. Therefore, I would like to say that the Minister of Justice prepared this matter well. I think it's a problem, and she's done a good job of carrying it out. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u15	Mr. President. In 2012 it was adopted in the National Code to provide proposals for a new constitution. National resources were then asked specifically, and more than 80% of the participants wanted to do so. Since then, research has confirmed this unique national willingness in that direction. It can be said that there is a very long distance between the proposed administration and then the highest current proposal. Prime Minister. According to the Council of Justice, by permission of the President: ▪ Sources in the natural world of Iceland, which are not private property, are common and lasting property of the nation. Proposition of the highest order. How similar the words are to the prime minister! He's like this, with President's permission: Iceland's natural resources are part of the Icelandic nation. Because we were talking about the Icelandic language earlier, I was taught young ones that they belonged to a Danish trash, and my mother thought it wasn't a good Icelandic language. But let's leave it in the middle. For use or use of resources or other limited public quality, the proposals of the administration board speak of a full fee. And it is said that there is a modest period of time. This text will be changed in the case of the Parliament's administration and monitoring committee. A normal currency, so defined in a report, remains to be set aside for a modest period of time. To propose the present prime minister, it is sufficient to say: It should be prescribed by the law to provide the means to make a profit-exploitation wage. Why not? Is it not important to ensure that these rights of use are not limited to national property? [[The president calls.]] And there is no need to ensure at least that these precious uses are due to a natural price? What are the interests here in the foreground?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u16	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Andri Thorsson for the style instructions in prime writing. That's a nice talk, which I think is not the main subject of his inquiry here. I thought it was all right. The senator read precisely the proposals of a administrative body that discussed that the resources not owned should be the nation's property, which was then changed by a greater part of the administration and monitoring committee. That is when the wording "characters, " which are not dependent on private rights, came to be. So, do we think that a greater proportion of the management and monitoring committee were offering a proposal to the management board or based the bill, as it appeared after the administration of a management and monitoring committee or more part of it, on the motion? I'd say it was based on the suggestions. And exactly the same wording, which is not dependent on the exclusive rights, can be found in the law that is in the bill I have now submitted to the council. The fact is, no matter what people may think, much of that proposal is based on the very basis that could be found in the proposals of governance. But, surely, the question may have been afterward to think of quite plain words, since we have been able to debate its interpretation ever since. The price, which was then full of the Council's proposals, was converted to ◯normal, to a greater part of the administration and monitoring committee. Nevertheless, there are still many who speak of a total price that should be, a price determined by some market auction, which would also clearly define in a constitution how to use resources, e.g. resources that have been run socially during the period. And as a result, it was likely the conclusion that the term was a ◯normal price, which makes it a considerable contribution to the legislatator to determine what kind of price is considered normal at a time. And what is suggested in the bill I propose? Yes, indeed, when resources are used for profit, the legislatator should decide on what the cost is. I'll reach the time tie after it's hard to answer in two minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u17	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, and we will discuss this often and extensively. Yes, it is quite true that full cost changed to a normal charge in the management and monitoring committee, while at the same time a paper with a bill of the management and monitoring committee is a very thorough definition of what a normal fee is while the requirements for the current film in the Supreme Court. Prime Minister is very open. The lack of time in the provisional arrangement means that these sources can be referred continuously to, they just have to be reversible, and this can be complicated, both political and practitional. I must say, Mr. President, the plans are frightening. Why can't you just tie that up?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u18	Mr. President. Yes, there may be a short period of time, but certainly this particular set took considerable changes from the motion of the administration board to the proposal of a management and surveillance committee. The suggestion I make is different. It contains, for example, no attempt to access the resource list. For example, I think it will improve the fact that there is an open source of resources, because we do not necessarily know who will be the future resources. It's hanging by how they're used for a valuable creation, isn't it? So, am I building on the basis? I don't know. These resources will not be provided permanently. This is very clear in my suggestion, and it is clear in a report that it means that it is either temporary or indistinguishable at that time. Hv. One senator says: "It should only be temporary, not telling. It is a material discussion that we need when discussing this bill. However, there may be strong evidence that I am unable to discuss here because of a lack of time. [[The president calls.]] But I appreciate it. A senator for the record.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u19	President. It's almost a year since Iceland's epidemic was under control. The first reaction to the government was temporary investment campaigns in male labor, market campaigns for tourism and extra loans to companies that were so useless. Then came some children's exodus that even led to their lives. ... soI got $30,000. one of the taxes at the New Year's. I have no idea how that amount was calculated, but I would like to learn about it on a financial committee. At the beginning of the epidemic, the man - made government was that it was better to do more than less in a epidemic that she hoped would be short. The first failure of the government was to keep hoping for the best, but not to prepare for the worst. You see, the government did no more than that. It was just hoping for the best. The result was just over 12% unemployment by the end of last year. There are over 21,000 people without jobs, and more than 40% of those out of work are foreign citizens. It is the people who came here to do the low-paying work that was needed to make Icelanders able to make the most of foreign tourist interest in the country. The gain was ours, but their low wages. Fifteen percent of all of them aged 183/4.24 are out of work. Our young people who are starting life begin without a job. The traveling process did not become temporary. Government plans were to respond as quickly as possible, but hopes for a temporary epidemic failed. The consequences are hundreds of billions of debts and no plans for how the next month of the pandemic will go with us, much less how to work things out. The government plan to dig in until the epidemic has not worked. The storm's too long. So I'd like to ask the minister, "What's next?" Are you going to buy more unemployment money? Will unemployment really be solved as soon as the epidemic is gone? Why don't we have the plan in our hands, a plan that is regularly updated in a transparent fashion?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u20	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson for this inquiry. However, I must make specific comments about the choice. A senator in the list of action when he here speaks of the creation of male workers only. He completely ignores the government's investment campaign, which was not a year's effort, but lasted longer, as it were. A senator well knows, not just about investments, in practical projects. A senator refers to and, of course, to a wide variety of jobs, but also to investments in research, innovation, and creative articles that I think are important. Never has it done better than the government when it comes to contributions for research and innovation, and I know that story well since I sat down at the council. A research fund has never had more money to play out. Of course, at the same time, the pursuit of the fund, which is good and tells a good story about the development of research and science in Iceland. Remember, too, that contributions to innovation have increased at the same time and have resulted in the increase in private investments. This has been the case for many years, the need to promote investment in these articles, the need to increase the support for the economy, the need for diversity. When you do, you choose to overlook it. Your age is temporary, but it certainly is long - range, and we can agree on that, me and the other. Senator. It does not change the fact that vaccination will start sooner than we expected. Vaccination started at the end of the year. We expect that in the first quarter, the most sensitive groups of society can be vaccinated, etc. This will have a big impact on the situation in this country. We've given the tone of how we provide for an international arrangement to develop over a longer period of time in order to enhance our awareness. [[The president calls.]] So I must make comments about it too. Granted, the epidemic has become much longer and more rain than we would have chosen, but this is a temporary situation, and we need to watch that hopefully we see a great change in that direction this year. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] - Excuse me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u21	Yes, question times can take a long time, as the epidemic did.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u22	A respectable president. I referred to the first reaction of the government, the first amount of funds. That's where it was. It was then the focus of the government opposition to provide additional funding for innovation, which the council did, not as much as the government would like. It was the council that added to the innovation of the first budget, not the government. Vaccination sooner than we expected? We never got a plan about what she'd look like. How, then, can we say that this has happened sooner than we expected? Increase perception of the border? There was no foreseement on the border, and it's not yet. We do not yet know how the next month of this epidemic will be. Is there two, three months left? No idea. Vaccination and herd resistance are expected to be completed for the first half of the year. Is that going to work? We have no plans how it might succeed. This is the problem that leads to my asking, "What next? " [[The president calls.]] Where's the plan we get that tells us?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u23	Mr. President. I've got to get less of that. A senator on the course of the Scientific and Technical Council, which I didn't realize would come from the state of government. Although I think that there is a very high degree of transnational reconciliation in this hall for raising contributions to research and innovation, I reject what is said here that all ideas of that nature came from the opposition of government. I refuse because it's wrong. This is a false claim. Where's the plan? Yes, here's a plan on what happens on the 1st May and how we're moving into the color encoding system developed within the European partnership by the implementation we've been working on here. What's the plan for vaccinations? Well, there's a whole lot of discussion here today. But, hey. A senator knows that. It went faster than anyone could have expected. Yes, it went faster than we've seen it happen, the development of vaccines, and I don't believe it. A senator knows as well as I do. So I'll put a question mark on this inquiry. I think we at the Allied Council of Iceland just have to accept that it is not possible to put down a completely predictable plan on exactly how we will go in this fight with the virus, which is unique. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u24	Mr. President. I'd like to speak to the highest. Minister for marine mammals. I don't want to ask the minister in his position on whaling because I think we have enough queries to call on the clear stand of the minister and his party, but I'd like to ask him out into the law frame around these species. The law about whales is about to live up to 70 years of age, and the layers around seals stretch back 700 years. These species are missing total law. No matter how we feel about hunting and protecting whales and selling them, there are no clear and good legal frames around those species, not only because of traditional views of fish and protecting but also to be able to frame the new functions around them, tourism providers showing wild seals in the natural environment and whale research companies that are running around whales. The point is, all evidence recommends the inclusion of these species into the wild beast laws. It was the result of the so - called animal report carried out in 20101⁄2013 and is the basis for the bill of Environment and Resource Minister for the management of the environment and transport committee these days. But the conclusion was not reached between counseling to dump seals and whales into them by this time. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister on his opinion of bringing sea mammals under wild beasts, as experts recommend, and as a environmental minister says he is normal. Also, I would like to ask the minister what conversation took place regarding such transfers between the advisers for the leading Environment Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u25	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. The discussions between the recruitment candidates took place among the staff of the consultants in bringing about the Environment Minister on these matters. I don't know that there were men from both councils who worked faithfully on this matter. Such a course to make the law sound like that. A member of this body makes a subject in my area of affairs as a minister of the sea and no plans were made to revise those legislation on the basis of my own. Also, my conclusion was that seals and whales have been saved in the Iceland Marine Research Institute, the Ministry's Office and the government's highest knowledge of both species. I didn't see a reason to move it away from the institution and would be far more complex than the Environment Minister's bill to deliver these projects from the Marine Research Institute and Marine Department. On this point, the attitude was based. A senator is calling from me about the excellent bill otherwise given by the Environment Minister for Animals in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u26	A respectable president. I thank you for the answer, and especially the fact that the members of the consultants were talking to each other. Naturally, the workers of these two advisers are not going to work outside the framework set by the Ministry for government division, so the decision to transfer custody of marine mammals from marine resources and agricultural ministers to the Environment and Resource Ministers needs to, of course, take place in the political arena. I would have thought it normal, and referred back to the word of the environmental minister, which also seems natural, that whales and seals are exposed to wild law. First to the highest. Seafood and agricultural ministers don't see it as a normal next step I'd like to ask: What's the plan for the marine mammals? Something has to be improved that law frame. It is not enough to have a law around whales from 1949 when all conditions are quite different from when they were present. [[The president calls.]] If these species are not to be brought under wild animal laws, how can this be guaranteed by environmental principles? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u27	A respectable president. For that kind of thing. A senator points up and agrees that it is a pleasure to hear about the communications of the councils in this area, of course, the personnel of the Ministry work in my political agency. It is a minister of every time that puts them in line with other departments or anyone in society. Hence, each minister is responsible for the work the Ministry is doing. In that respect, these two departments speak together and under the merits that the Ministers give to their employees. When asked for which lines to work on these topics, I know that all the suggestions and advice of the marine mammal research agency have met all international standards. The world's highest priority is ocean research organization and our experts in these programs. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, I'm not worried that the counsel we have received will not meet the insistents of what we need. A senator refers to him. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u28	Meeting arrangements are made for the discussion. After the minister's presentation, all classes have the right to express themselves and direct questions to the minister and minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u29	A respectable president. December 29th. started a long-lasting vaccination against Covid-19 in Iceland where fewer than 10,000 doses of Pfizer vaccine were transferred to the country. The vaccination was successful, and within three days, over 5,000 people from all healthcare programs were vaccinated. Clearly, the health system in this country is well - equipped to carry out this vast task. Vaccination doses from the manufacturers Pfizer and Modernerna are regularly being received here, from Pfizer weekly and from Modernerna every two weeks. In February, doses from AstraZeneca will be added to the target vaccine. That would mean that to date, 30,000 doses were delivered, i.e. A vaccine for 15,000 people, but it can be assumed that by the end of March we will have vaccinated 35,000 people. We need to be prepared to receive vaccine at any dose level and that vaccination will occur slowly during the first two quarters of this year. Here are some facts: As is known, the European Union has made a deal with six pharmaceutical companies who have worked on the development of a vaccine against Covid-19. Iceland has already completed contracts with four pharmaceutical manufacturers, AstraZeneca, Pfizer, Modernna and Janssen. Then Iceland's contract with the manufacturer CureVac is well established and a contract is expected to be signed in the beginning of February. Of the six, the vaccine of two enterprises has been authorised in Europe, the above mentioned enterprises Modernerna and Pfizer. It is planned that the European Medicines Agency, EMEA, should submit an opinion on the subject from AstraZeneca on Friday, January 29, at the end of this week, and that the vaccine will be authorised in Europe on the same day. As I have previously made clear to the council, an overview of the status of vaccines can be found on the health Ministry web. I expect all members of Congress to pay close attention to the chart that is updated in real time. Pfizer vaccine has already been distributed into the country and yesterday 4,387 subjects had received a first vaccination and 4,787 completed the full vaccination course. Iceland's agreement with Pfizer guarantees us doses for the rights of some 250,000 individuals. Vaccination with materials from Modernna began on January 12, and now 1,259 people in this country have received the first series of vaccinees, but none of the second, but the plan assumes that 1,200 doses will be passed through March six months. The situation is so that, after yesterday, 4,789 individuals in Iceland had been fully vaccinated and 5,646 subjects had received a first dose of vaccine so that by the end of the day 10,495 were partially vaccinated. As observed, AstraZeneca vaccine is expected to be published on Friday and the manufacturer has mentioned that the vaccine will be distributed two weeks later. It is then assumed that it will be marketed on February 12th. The amount and distribution programme for Iceland are not available but it is likely that Iceland will receive 13,800 doses in February and, after that, more doses will be transferred to the country's irregularity. The program of immunizations and distribution has actually been run out of samples, and we see our system is doing well. The perspective and organization of this procedure are carried out by a disease - control doctor, who himself is being carried out by hospitals and health care throughout the country. Vaccination has been successful and has been carried out as soon as a vaccine is delivered, which is extremely important, as some countries around us have found that although the vaccines have been received into the country, they have not been properly distributed to the general population. The first course of vaccination, which took place during the last days before the season, was successful. It began to be vaccinated with prospective healthcare professionals, those at most at risk of contracting by Covid-19, nursing and aging homes, as well as the elderly and the sick in the daytime. On January 12, the number of vaccinees and the remaining groups in the front line, e.g. Police and ambulances. It is expected that the groups at the highest risk of contracting disease due to their activities will be vaccinated during this week or on January 27. In line with the decision made by a surgeon, regarding the vaccination of the oldest age group, the age group was started on January 21. Vaccination started with older persons who accept services, i.e. those who live in the special companies and the population, but still, the ones who live at home who are not in public service are still to be vaccinated. This group will be offered a series of vaccinations after age. It should also be noted that in the case of an unexpected event, dosing will always be maintained by a disinfectant, such as for those requiring vaccination, which may, for example, be maintained by an unrecognised physician. This is due to the treatment of the disease. There have been hard work to provide syringes and needles that will better use the vaccines, and members of the Parliament are familiar with the discussion. You should be aware of the side effects here, but prior to this weekend, the Agency has received 137 reports of side effects from vaccination against Covid-19. Of these reports, 128 were not assessed as serious, but nine reports were reported as serious, with seven deaths and one case of serious hypersensitivity. The surgeon's office has now given advice on how to be vaccinated in the oldest age group. It is important, most respected president that we citizens of the country do not hesitate to be vaccinated. Although the development of the vaccine has been met rated, no safety point has been exceeded in the development of the vaccine. The reason that the process has gone as fast as it can be seen is all the experience gained by the scientific community around the world by the early development of vaccines, as well as by the rift capitals that have been put into production. The European Union has already provided high funding for the development of a vaccine against Covid-19 and is now being benefited by the introduction of vaccines into the country. Reports are being received now because the manufacturing sector will have and will lead to a possibly lower output of the emissions of Pfizer and AstraZeneca over the next few weeks than expected for the remaining delays to occur primarily during the next few weeks but then beyond that date. Of course, this is not exactly what we would like to do, but the main thing is that we are still likely to be able to vaccinate the majority of people during the first two quarters of this year, which have been the goal since the beginning. I have strong hopes that we will achieve that goal, but to get the best use of a vaccine, we need to continue to guard the disease prevention within the country and on the border and to turn back.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u30	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for her report, and would like to agree with her on the need for solidarity and to remain out of the defenses. If I catch the last one as high as I can. A minister said, in effect, that she assumed that the majority of the people would be vaccinated on the middle of the year. I see at the top. A minister nods, so I could clearly hear correctly. In fact, this is also quoted in the media today, for example, as listed on the index. Ministers, as she spoke in her speech, said that the authorities had the expectation of vaccinating the people for less than a year. I'm going to refer to this story, by permission of the President: Despite uncertainty, the secretary still says that he is expected to do so. - Come on, Minister: We don't really see the delivery much into the future. That is to say how this will be in March, April, and May. But we expect and the information we have received informally assume a later in the first quarter so that more should be done in March. Mr. President. This statement requires more explanation and support than has been identified. A statement that there is uncertainty calls for no support, but when words such as the majority of the people are used in recent years, information received informally calls for further explanation. Oh, my God. Of course, a minister of solidarity is well received, but it must be supported by the management and sharing of information. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u31	A respectable president. Hv. A senator calls for logical support for what is said. I've never escaped the fact that the plans we're going to figure out are based on the information that is handled. As indicated by my introduction, the information here is primarily about the confirmation of agreements and the plans involved in the quarterly delivery process. A delivery schedule that allows for a clear date will then only be available to the extent that I have explained. When I say that it looks like we're achieving the goal I've seen and that I'm trying to get the people vaccinated in the first half of the year, I'm referring to it. It is still so, and it is probably quite known when it comes to drugs and vaccines, that there is a change in the delivery schedule. However, it is unique right now, when all the nations of the world see a delivery plan and want to know when the materials will come, that society in the world is more impatient. However, I have seen it during the weeks or months that are behind this process that the plans change, sometimes making the process slow down and sometimes harding it. Therefore, there is more to this, a dignified president, that we need to continue to rebuild and cooperate on this project. Rather, we need to endure as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u32	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister for the answer and the information I could have allowed me to expect to be a little more thorough because when things are spoken of with great precision that the majority of the people are spoken of, that is, time, for my years, you might have expected a little more accurate information, including what informal information that is at the top. Minister's reference. But I'd like to side with something else. The gathering of vaccines has now been extended, as might be said, to the European Union. The European Union has been severely critical for its progress in this matter. The European Union's policy was to gather like the German Ursula von der Leyen, president of the European Commission, put great emphasis on this. In spite of this, Germany maintained an extra 30 million doses and apparently did not accept, demonstrating this in action, the European Union's work. The European Union is criticized for endeavoring to take on a health - care field that they do not have organizational or financial prowess, much less in a pandemic. I'd like to let me ask you the highest. Minister: Is she satisfied with the arrangement that took place here with this provision to the European Union and is pleased that, unlike the information presented, our hands are bound. The Israelites who have been successful in acquiring vaccine outside the European Union? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u33	President wants less of it. Councilmen are to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u34	Mr. President. I am convinced that it was the right thing to travel with Europe and the European countries in this regard. It ensures equal access to vaccines such as the countries there are, and no one has to doubt that Iceland had a completely different situation if we had to negotiate in every detail. But I want to know because of it. A senator was asking, asking for more specific answers, that I can be happy. A senator who has made a deal with Janssen about 235,000 doses, if I recall correctly, is surely over 230,000. Janssen has an arrangement where only one injection is needed and this vaccine is expected sooner than previously, i.e. in the third quarter, we expect it sooner. We know that it applies to all pharmaceutical manufacturers that they are trying as they can to increase their production, and we will benefit from it, as do other countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u35	A respectable president. I'd like to discuss the arrangement with the vaccine at the highest level. Secretary of health. It's in the way, like the highest. In his history here, a minister noted that four vaccine producers have been negotiated and are being negotiated with the fifth. In a memo delivered to him. the head of the committee for a discussion on the vaccine purchases is presented with information also listed on the Office's Homepage and on the homepage covid.is, including the U.S. A list of so-called priority groups, i.e. how governments envision a switch from vaccination. This includes ten groups. Some individuals are divided into those groups. But of this list, at least I feel like it's in front of me, that this is about 90,000 people riding should receive vaccination. So I'm referring to older citizens and vulnerable and forward workers. This group represents some 90,000 people, who are facing my opinion of vaccination. In that light, I feel that when the vaccine purchase started in October, AstraZeneca vaccine was bought for, in fact, 114,000 people, that it did not work out agreements with all the other vaccine makers for doses of at least 90,000 people. Contracts with others were not made until December, in fact, only with vaccine producer Janssen anticipated doses for more than 90,000 people. My main question to the highest. Healthcare Ministers: In view of the priority and urgency of vaccinating this group, which does not count more than 90,000 people, why not agree to make any further dose contracts for at least 90,000 people? It'll wake up, for example. My attention to a contract with Pfizer was made in December and divided. First, the contract was made on December 9, and not even that agreement reached 90,000 but was added to the contract on December 30, so we now have a contract with Pfizer on a vaccine for 90,000 people. I specifically mention this in view that there was a budget this year and that this year alone accounts for over 1.7 billion on the sale of vaccines. The cost of the epidemic here is about a billion dollars. It's just a direct cost, and it's probably a lot bigger than that. So I find that the lack of money cannot be the answer to the question I ask here: Why not negotiate with all these vaccine producers for more than 90,000 people? In particular, because, as you can see, some tools are up to or not in the presence of the AstraZeneca vaccine in certain groups. Of course, that is unproved, and there will be other matters of opinion. But it would have been natural for me to make sure that everyone in this business had a serious commitment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u36	A respectable president. That's what it's all about when it's tough. A senator speaks of intergroup overlaps that are evident naturally, and has repeatedly shown in my case, that the groups are defined by different factors; partly by age, partly after farm and partly by health status. It is obvious that for some individuals, the person in a nursing home is an elderly and vulnerable group. It's been all over the place. This could be a misunderstanding in the question of why. The senator on the fact that we have been in the position to set the number of doses from specific companies. This is so that we are in a unit with other European countries and are distributed according to the total cost. Finally, we do not negotiate with producers. This is not negotiated with the manufacturer until Marketing Authorisation, so these items happen in a certain order. When that situation existed before Christmas, as it were. A senator referred to it, so at that time we could not know exactly which type of vaccine was suitable for any group. It is actually information that is acting as all this process goes on, that some substances are more suitable for certain age groups or groups than for others. Therefore, it must also be such that in terms of these priority groups and order within the centre of the disease clinic, it is not only a decision-making physician, but also in what ways certain vaccines are set aside to different groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u37	A respectable president. When I refer to the priority groups, all I have to say is that there are 90,000 people who I think must be agreed on to receive a vaccination, I think we agree on that, at the highest rate. Minister and I, at least Compared to that list of priorities, these are 90,000 people. That's right, because it's the highest. A minister noted that men did not know which vaccines would work and for what groups, the more reason I would have thought that they had been seeking more than 90,000 doses from all these manufacturers available. Therefore, I would like to ask: What is being negotiated for a large quantity of a company called CureVac, and a topv. A minister mentioned that the state is talking about us? No, you're right, chief. A minister has a point in mind when he says that it may be difficult for us senators or the general public to understand the procedure in this case because none of these agreements have been revealed. This, of course, is very negative and has been referred to as a matter of confidentiality in the contracts. But I see on the European Union website the contracts are published, at least. I came across one contract with this New Committee CureVac producer, where the contract is published, except for some form of right and duty not to be public. But I find it shocking, and I therefore urge a minister to reveal more and to make these agreements on the tables, taking into account some confidential information that should be concealed, even though I did not have a reason for what it should be for. But at the end, I would like to ask them, " What does the government have? ' What is the goal of the vaccination? If we assume that 90,000 people will be vaccinated, whenever that happens, why what action would that be effective? I feel that there is a need to be clear about what men intend to do with these vaccinations. If 90,000 people are vaccinated, is this not a basis for significant changes in disease prevention?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u38	A respectable president. Yes, that is exactly why we are vaccinating, that is, in order to reduce the risk of disease prevention within the country. It's the measures that are completely compatible, i.e. on the one hand, how to reduce the risk of epidemics in the country, and on the other hand, when the risk for the epidemic reduces the risk of failure by both causing health damage and the possibility of death. As the process unfolds, we can reduce the resources of the disease within the country. I hope so. A senator saw clearly in this context because it has been going on for quite some time, this context of the parts. At the same time, however, as the group becomes better protected at most, the less likely we are to be affected by health problems, which is another of two main objectives of disease control, i.e. On the one hand, to protect our most vulnerable people and to protect our health.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u39	President. Thank you very much. Minister for report. I would like to mention that it would be very good if the council could get the report on the night before such a discussion so that members of the council could study it before and possibly be better prepared for a discussion like this. I even think it would have been good for you. A senator who was before, just because of the questions. We are somewhat inclined to resist trying to bridge the gap between the board members of the board because it seems that there is no good conversation between individual categories. This is shown in a memo to do so. the welfare committee that has been negotiated for 538,000 people, of whom a vaccine has been negotiated for 115,000 people in October. It would be good, then, if we in the government situation didn't have to be trying to communicate matters between here, but I'm willing to accept it, because I think vaccination is a key factor in our building up here on land, economic development and community structure. I am a optimistic person who believes that we will be able to vaccinate the majority of the people and will just trust them, even though the latest news is a little scary about the wide range of vaccinees from AstraZeneca. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister in this, how they visualize the use of disease prevention when the vaccination has been completed, will say, in view of the average size, that the nation has been given. How do governments that I assume have begun to prepare for it make sure that the average exposure to the public and also the risk of disease prevention of the items that have not been vaccinated when this large group and, of course, of all the most sensitive groups have been vaccinated first.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u40	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. I've worked very hard to get through this work everyone together that it was the most transparent thing in it, but I'd like to say it at the moment. A senator preparing for a discussion here at the council is in the form of speech points and information but is not published a report published at the council as a Senate document. But I declare myself ready whenever I want to come to the welfare committee. Hv. A senator specifically asks what might be expected about the reduction of the preventive measures. I think, basically, we can assume that detoxifications are in reverse, as it were. Of course, the most important thing is that we are in our situation that our daily life is as normal as it is, we are talking about school, school, and work. However, it is certain that for a long time in the future, as long as we are carrying the epidemic over the world, we come to care for general protection, what has sometimes been called the individual disinfectants, which are only to watch out for distances and handwashing, etc. I think we're all good at this, if defined by the spread of other viral and bacterial diseases. I think that's gonna be reality for a while. I think we need to be patient because we can't cut this into stone. At the same time, I'd like to mention that it is very important for us here in Iceland that the epidemic is under a certain control while we are going into the vaccine and that there we are considerably better than many countries around us, and we are in a more severe situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u41	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I agree that we are in a much better place, so we should celebrate. There was reports that the vaccine was not to be held before the second vaccination but to try to complete the previous vaccination and then wait for a new dose. I want an answer from the highest. Minister to see if this is right. If so, I don't think it's very safe because the drop has been on delivery, and this can, of course, cause a lot of trouble. Of course, while we want to give more vaccine in a hurry, we also want to do more rights. I'd like to have clear answers about this. Yes, we will continue to ensure our individual disease prevention, but I'm asking the highest level. Minister to the limitations available to the operator, e.g. waves, restaurants, tourism, and the like. Although we continue to explode and wear masks and such, these operators, who provide a variety of services, must wait very excitedly for the time when the government, and they must have begun to prepare, support for the target to break up, or whether it should only continue to maintain the most disease prevention, despite the fact that half of the people will be vaccinated. Finally, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of the same question I asked the Ministry a while ago, i.e. the priorities of those in a particularly delicate position due to social and economic conditions. There are homeless people and others in such a situation. I think everyone must agree that we need to ensure that they will be vaccinated as soon as possible. Fortunately, it's a small group. [[The president calls.]] It has not changed on the good Web site of vaccine.is, their order, they are still in the ninth group. I'd like to ask about their survival.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u42	A respectable president. First of all, the decision is made by a disease - control doctor. Hv. A senator also asks about interaction, or, as I understand it, about the combination of action within the country and on the border. That's right, which highlights the point. A senator, of course, that it plays together. Although we're an island in a geographical sense, we're not already talking about Covid-19. We are part of this overall picture, so we need to be especially careful about arrangements on the border to date. As noted earlier, since May 1, we may be able to make changes in our borders provided we have begun to see countries marked with red or yellow at that point. We'll see about that. Hv. A senator also asks about the maintenance of the second dose. It is always this way in Iceland that we have the second dose for the best, and we do not recommend all the vaccines that come in the previous series of vaccinations that are expected and not too bad about the timing of the second, so we have the situation of being able to follow exactly the instructions made by producers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u43	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for your discussion. It was both the clear and the clear report at the highest level. A health minister moved here. I think there's a reason why we review that although we feel that time has been running a long time, it is not yet a year after this virus has been developed. It's just that I think it's quite remarkable in all the way that we're usually talking about the status of vaccination here at this point. It may testify to how fast science is going on, and we should, of course, be delighted to do so. How long has it been since we started vaccinating? It's a month, isn't it, sir, December 29th? And we have already vaccinated more than 10,000 people, as the minister went over, in part or in all respects. I also think we have to wonder how well we are, not just from European countries, but from America as well. We've been able to relax on the meeting boundaries. We are seeing riots in the Netherlands as a result of hardened restrictions, the situation has been intense in Britain, and we can continue to count for a long time. It is a little interesting to keep track of the discussion, especially in the last few days, because of the postponement of vaccinees when people are wondering whether it is right or not that we are making a deal with the European Union. I was pleased when Ursula Von der Leyen set his foot in his dealings with Astrazeneca. As we know, the EU has, of course, invested a considerable amount in production, as the minister entered his speech. I think that anyone who wants to face it must be clear that Iceland, this little country, could not have made any more of a deal. Should we have taken a chance? And with what permission should we have taken a vaccine here? I'm just wondering because, of course, we want to follow this group. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask in this context, because we're also always talking about proof, if the Minister can go over it a bit. I know that I have read something about health, that people should be able to have proof there, both those who have received Covid and those who have been vaccinated. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u44	A respectable president. Hv. A senator here raises questions on various sides of the situation we are in today. I think I have to say that there is something to consider, and it's very important that general support has been given both to disease prevention and to our progress in this epidemic. Therefore, not all countries have been greeting. I don't think it's the least because it's the exception, not the rule, that politics were tempted to turn epidemics and vaccination into political bitter bones. That's an exception. It is also about the atmosphere and security of society. There are differences of opinion and debates. Of course, there are also different opinions on the treatment arrangement, and we should exchange our views on them. But we are to do so, so it is a matter of the well - being and security of the inhabitants of the land. Regarding this proof, we cooperate with other countries to ensure mutuality in the use of dictionaries. It is also assumed that if we have been ill, we can see the situation when we have received the second vaccination in health, as well as information about antibodies. So we're supposed to be able to call for this and get this in a state of health. And then, of course, I remind you of the worldwide vaccination certificate that will be in force from now on.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u45	Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. You see, I think this is important because we've been trying to draw attention to the use of health care, that there are simple ways in which people can have proof so that they don't have to go to a doctor especially. As mentioned earlier, in Iceland we can hardly talk about epidemics when we look at world conditions. We are so well - mannered and so privileged. Our actions have not been as harsh as those around us. We haven't been setting a curfew, and we're losing weight as soon as we can while all the countries around us are closing down. So I'm really happy about this. What I've been reading about, too, about the solidarity and control prevention that the country has shown. I also find it important to read about the doses that the nations we are in cooperation with have ordered, and what I understand is at the bottom, to be used in behalf of those less fortunate in the world when the rich nations have taken much more than they need. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u46	A respectable president. That is true, and of course we benefit from many aspects of Icelandic society, not only by geographic factors that, of course, are of great importance, but also by the fact that we have brought success here to be intervening, and that there has been a great deal of confidence in what the authorities have suggested. However, when the epidemic is really behind it, we do well to ask. We are there because we do not know how far is left. A great deal of effort is required by one society to endure and to endure in such a situation. But I've often wondered that in these circumstances, we have some of the experience we have here, this community on this island, by dealing with natural disasters of various kinds.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u47	A respectable president. It seems quite clear that other travelers are being met by the fact that there is a considerable distance between the current limits on the border, both late and bad, in terms of reaching herd resistance to the Covid-19 region as well as in the view that the new and more infectious variants of the virus are now under intense force in our neighboring countries. The former nation's largest trade, tourism, is in the grip of extreme unemployment, and it is a nation that is urgent to counteract with force and creative means. Travelers in this country could do much of that and weigh the situation. It could bridge some of the gap until the world returns to its journey. So I'm only going back to what was said in the grandest case. Minister here at the beginning, that counts as the highest. Ministers that, in the middle of the year, the majority of the people may have been vaccinated. I'd like to ask a minister, what does that mean? Does this mean that this is a place for herd resistance? And what does that mean from the interaction with hardened operations, to form on the border? But to back up my case, that in this country, there's a lot of energy for people to take advantage of the transport and restaurant services they have to make. The given language is e.g. that gathering parties could do much for the food field would be more than enough to allow people to get together. Similarly, Iceland's competitive position in reimbursement of filmmaking is greatly improved, increasing the proportion to 35%, as has been called after, and the Minister of Education and Culture has published an interest in doing things inside the government. There, as if a hand were waved, many jobs are created in a reliable field of work. President. We here discuss vaccine vaccinations and vaccinations, and the vaccination is now blessed and there is something to do with vaccinating the most vulnerable groups and those working in the front line. As that work takes place, the amount of health from which the virus is supplied has to be reduced. Of course, the stated objective of active action is to protect the people's health and reduce the risk. However, the statistical concerns involved in assessing the risk for the greater good in a particular disease i.e. The basis for the decisions that lead to intensive action must then be changed. The side effects of active action are that unemployment in the country is increasing today, with the devastating consequences for the nation's economic, social and social aspects of society's health, as well as for the very public health. That's why I want to ask the highest. A minister whether it is necessary to examine these interactive factors more accurately, set forward stage photos, and see if there is a need to reduce the limits within the country so that there can be some improvement in the country's travel and the commercial wheels. Is there any work on the global opinions and interaction of the economic issues of industry and intensive action? This is what I think, a respectable president, is important to clear up and know the situation in order for a tourism company like that. can plan and prepare the soil for what can be done in some areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u48	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator's questions, and I'm not surprised that she's quite interested in getting information about the 2021 traveling overseer. I think that's what we're all in. However, the tourist environment here is also hanging by the situation of the epidemic and the vaccinations in the countries around us. We couldn't make a plan for the trip trip in 2021 unless we knew exactly how all of this would come forward. But I just want to make sure. A member of the Parliament that there is a wide range of work going on in the hands of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of finance, the Ministry of travel, the Ministry of Presidency, etc. about these factors and the complexity of the analysis. But, hey. A senator knows that the situation is now such that there is a ban in many countries around us, and we do not know how these countries are angry about the epidemic. That's the situation right now. Hv. A senator has to recognize that this is a conjunction with what is happening in the countries around us. But at the same time in Iceland, there is a reference to infection in Europe. There is a minimum of infection in Europe in Iceland and Iceland in the 7th world at the rate of vaccination, and, a respectable president, in accordance with the European colour code system we now have, we see that while most countries around us are now in red, orange, yellow, Iceland is on green. That's what we're doing now. Of course, we need to hope that this will work out well in every other place, not only to eliminate the epidemic but also to vaccinate it. As the vaccination of vulnerable groups moves forward, we get closer to leading a normal life in this society.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u49	A respectable president. It may have misunderstood what I was putting forward earlier. I wasn't measuring that the border's limits would be lifted to open up some kind of torn travel within the country. No, I was talking about how it would be hard for me to imagine that it was the time that the limits could be removed before the next summer, and if it could be considered that Iceland was traveling with some kind of force here in the country for the summer. The border isn't bulletproof, but it's so that we're very good at the fact that the virus doesn't come here just free into society. I was wondering whether or not the most sensitive group, etc., the public health problem in the country could get together more, we live here, and it would only be related to what it was in the last summer. That's what I was talking about. But I'm going to go out for a little bit. This weekend the news was received of a more dignified president that the European Union was having an argument with the pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca because the company could not support agreements for vaccine delivery. It is clear that this will interfere with Iceland's planned vaccination plans and will be exposed to a considerable number of doses over the next few weeks, I presume. During the early stages of the vaccine fund, a decision was made that Iceland should be joined by the European Union, and that is evidence that this was a strong contract. V.E.G. The financial and economic secretary has said that it is necessary to look at the fact that when Iceland was negotiated with the EU on vaccine purchases, no vaccine involvement was available. It would have been, with President's permission, a very bold decision to try to follow the road alone. Following the above news, the European Union reported that it was considered that the relationship would prohibit the sale of non-EU vaccines. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of state of Iceland's situation as far as this is concerned. Is it safe for Iceland, though, to receive these doses, which well mean being far fewer than expectations? Does Ministers believe that there is any increased risk or threat in the cooperation of the Iceland with the European Union in Vaccine shops, there is an increased risk that Iceland will be out in the cold? And then I wondered, a respectable president, if it would have been better for Iceland to look at the real possibility of negotiating a vaccine on their own. But I guess we're not going back in time. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if there is a feeling that there is no direct reason to believe that Iceland could now be a sovereign state and, in view of the situation that has come up with force and courage, could attempt to escape more vaccine in the European Union. Is it not good to make a bold decision now, and is it not sole that we have confidence and ambition to take matters into our own hands instead of continuing to carry all the eggs in the European Union basket?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u50	A respectable president. For the previous request why. Of course, the candidate and the addition that came to the second question is all the basis for us to travel within the country for the summer. It all looks like we need to stay for a while, at least, with a tough operation on the border. Of course, we've done a lot of economic work here through the council, especially in the interests of the most brutal jobs. With regard to the interaction with individual vaccines manufacturers, we assume that the pieces will be drawn up, as I once did. There's no chance Iceland's gonna stay out in the cold. I can only say that. We do not have the authority to negotiate with the contracts we are currently in. It is in my opinion that writing by that position would be effective only by itself. [[The president calls.]] To say now that something had been more reasonable at some point in the past is the natural simplest thing in the world. Anyone can do that. But I am convinced that this decision was right.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u51	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The medical secretary of the oral collection and distribution of the vaccine, and the opinion that the report has been very informative on the situation. Each year, with rising suns, we are filled with increased optimism. It is by nature to us Icelanders. And most important, now that we see, in parallel to the rising sun, is that we have a better fight with the crown virus, so that we can have the full force of resistance in all areas of society. Over the past few years, we have experienced the time that none of us would expect to experience, even though somewhere we have had knowledge that we could expect to have a pandemic of some kind. But we have also experienced unique moments in the cooperation of international science and politics worldwide, with clear aims set for the development of vaccines and in cooperation and agreements for research and development. We Icelanders and I step into this cooperation with other European countries, although our salary has little value in the overall picture and our share of vaccines is slow to deal with all the costs of development, testing and production of vaccines. It is such an achievement to have a vaccine and several species from several manufacturers as fast as you can see. It was accomplished by the cooperation of science and nations. It's like the highest. A minister went over, the Icelanders negotiated a contract to deliver vaccines for all the people of the country. We are now in the seventh place worldwide and are going to be vaccinated by the majority of the people of the country for less than a year. When the expedition was launched in search of a vaccine in spring, it was impossible to predict who would be the first to solve the riddle or what vaccines would be suitable for different groups. It was therefore impossible to bet on one horse in contracts. But now we are assured that we will receive vaccines in the same proportion as other nations in our cooperation. It's really amazing. It is wish that, as a result of this global community, the experience with the development of Covid vaccines in fighting other diseases, whether caused by viruses, bacteria, parasites, or lifestyles, would be experienced. We Icelanders are supposed to use us to do so, and I wish a health minister would enter it in their resistance. Icelanders are few but still few, and that is why there have been voices that it is wise to give the entire nation a single vaccination, and in many ways it is easy to speak for that approach. On the other hand, many countries have a much greater problem, an enormous problem in controlling the crown virus as long as we are successful. Therefore, we might argue that other kingdoms should take first place. Of course, resistance is important and progressive, and the rate of vaccination affects the resistance. However, this country's resistance is not determined only by the national flocks but also by the situation in the countries around us. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Whether the difference in the distribution of vaccines between nations will be able to prolong the pandemic, a minister may have both moral and scientific evidence to support the simultaneous vaccination of nations.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u52	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for entering this core. Indeed, the discussion here and in most parts of the country, whether in Europe or in a single state, is based primarily on the basis that each person is second to himself. Yet, the United Nations and World Health Organization have kept us very close to the material in repeating the importance that we too could that the world's poorest states do not stand in the same position and are not as safe at the table when it comes to the provision of vaccines. Because of this, if we have a position of cooperation in the United Nations, which we are involved in and have contributed there, we will have the possibility that if we have a vaccine that is out of place in this country, it will be given to others. We're in a hurry. But I'll take my advice. In terms of the fundamental moral questions that exist today, and not only are the wrestlers of the Covid-19 and the availability of a vaccine in general, but the debate will now be unveiled in the state of the earth's balance. This is the natural reality that is now exposed. It's not new. This has been so far too long and for years that some countries are rich, well educated, and have a lot of access to knowledge, information, health, education, etc. and perhaps one of the major factors of this century is the imbalance.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u53	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister's answer and that it should highlight the important thing, that if we receive more doses than we need them, they will walk to other peoples who need them. It's very important. As normal, other manufacturing forces are not at the demand in the first place, and that's why we're in this position. V.E.G. The minister did well with the ethics of this. But I just want to establish the scientific evidence, too, because, of course, there is going to be a need to extend disease prevention procedures around the world if there is an extreme difference in the course of vaccination. But that also means that the virus continues to mutate. It appears new and new variations, and we could get it back to the nations first to be vaccinated. I think that those who have better knowledge of these matters could come up with more arguments. Then I wanted to come to my priorities and ask the highest questions. Minister. As far as I can see, it was the same thing as the main objective of the sterilization procedures over the entire past year, i.e. to protect our most vulnerable groups and to ensure effective health care. That guide has worked for us, and we can actually ask ourselves, " How can such work lead us through the reduction of the disease - control measures in some step? ' Is there anything going on with that plan, if I can put it that way? Then I'd like to come in and see that even if vaccines are not given at exactly the same doses as the first schedules, I can see no reason to breathe slowly and assume that we will be in a long time about the middle of the year, as it has been repeatedly. But back to the previous question: Do we have any idea of the number of people or what groups would it be necessary to have a vaccination so that some steps can be taken toward decommission? Might it depend on the infectious factor or on other criteria? Do we have anything to aim for? I think, however, that we always need to remember that during vaccination, we need to be careful, to continue our partnership, and to follow the treatment measures closely with the best guidance and knowledge of our experts in relation to the goals I attended. V.E.G. In the beginning, a minister did well over different producers. Is there anything before or has been published on how vaccines from different manufacturers are suitable for different groups?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u54	A respectable president. This knowledge is available every day, and we see that it is rapidly moving, while we are in the middle of the epidemic and the middle of the vaccination process. The information and knowledge are coming into existence, and in some respects it has rarely been as important as it is now to make sure that the information you are looking for is confirmed and correct. Hv. A senator specifically asks if there are any standards; when that is the case, we can break down. The Ministry of Presidency has been working with other councils, with opinions of the statistical team and of the pathologists, etc., of such a model. That's one of the things we're trying to do. But like a dog. A senator knows that there are so many elements that play together to form, and we have become experts in how many noncompressions were infested. [[The president calls.]] We know that it is so important that they are all surrounded by disease because otherwise the virus is still in the community. [[The president calls.]] But, Mr President, I obviously don't have the time to finish any answers. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u55	A respectable president. When I turned a question to the highest level. Healthcare Minister on the prospect of a vaccine on December 3 of the previous year, the responders were that it was realistic to look to the first quarter, the first part of that period. I understood the minister's words so that we were talking about the season when vaccination might begin. I asked the highest. A health minister following the failure to respond, on the other hand, from the director of the EMA, who spoke about us, could have been far along on this project as early as January of January, and from a pathologist who spoke of a reasonable optimism and that it was premature to conclude that we would be far along or even about to begin with these materials in January. It seems to me that he has been, as often as before, a voice of practicality here. True, we have begun, but the expectations of the people were, I think, that the steps in these topics would be larger, including, bigger. Perhaps because of the large number of people making comments on the subject, whether on the side of the government or not. The subject was again discussed on December 18, and basically the situation has not changed much since then, i.e. when the conversation took place here at the Assembly Hall on December 18. Since the beginning of a drug epidemic operation, it has been clear to me that these powerful treatment measures need to take on strong economic measures. As we all know, each day is enormously expensive, economic, and social. Of course, we do. That fact has nothing but meaning that it is the reality of what we live under. Of course, the actions have been necessary for us and for the sake of public interest, but all of us know that the cost is huge. It is complex and complex, economic, social, and psychological. The result is unemployment crisis, and it is a recession that is different from the one we have met in this country in most lands, most of which have previously appeared as a result of the loss of the crown and inflation that has resulted in the evaporation of all or most people. However, when the demand disappears in this way in certain areas, with heavy and dramatic consequences and effects on business, and the result of the unemployment crisis is that of some people. The group is quite large, 21,000 people at the beginning of the year, and 26,000 when we include those who are still on the side. Of course, in the context of the uncertainty, which is difficult to possess, and the Icelandic government cannot solve that position alone, but precisely because of it, I think it is so important that governments are intervening in information, not add to uncertainty, and that the information provided is clear. As to economic uncertainty, I think difficult answers are simply better than no answers or vague answers in this situation. After all, the vaccine is essential for society's recovery, for people to go back and spend their time together, that the wheels begin to return. My question is the economic impact of the disease prevention procedures. As I mentioned, there is uncertainty about the process and the timelines, and people's experience is that the process is getting longer. Can a minister inform us of what kind of work has taken place in Iceland's government because of this economic impact? Will vaccination take longer than the middle of the year and even into the fall, then, has the government had some evaluation of the economic effects in the event of this? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u56	Thank you. A senator's questions and try to touch them as time goes on. First of all, I'd like to agree with that as a matter of course. Regarding the success of all of us, one member of the body says that we have been successful in listening to a psychiatrist. He has experience and knowledge from dealing with epidemics that we have been able to listen to as this epidemic has taken place. I'd like to mention it to you at the moment. A member of the Parliament that what is then under the government, whether in this case of the Ministry of Health or other administrations, is to evaluate the proposals of a psychiatrist, including a psychiatrist. to a moderate degree. Never should the measures be harder than necessary, so we can achieve greater results, not holding them back from society more than is necessary. Hv. A senator here brings up unemployment, and I agree. A senator in that it is the highest government issue. This is the biggest challenge of all of us, for we have no time to accept the ongoing unemployment of thousands and tens of thousands of people. Enlightenment needs to be clear, hasn't it? Senator. I refer to the website vaccines, where contracts with each company are updated every day. Hv. A senator says, as I understand it, that there are not so many people to express themselves on this, but I just want to point out the reason. A senator assumes that everyone is willing to express himself on these matters now. There's a lot of uncertainty. I'll take that into consideration, if you don't mind. A senator believes that there are benefits, that I should be more aware of uncertainty than I have so far. But it has certainly been the red thread of my language all along.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u57	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The health minister is very much concerned with the answers. It may be a matter of taste that many people on the part of the government are to comment on these matters. Of course, the big issue is that governments, such as the highest authority. A health minister, whether represented by the Ministry of Health or by others, spoke in one voice. In view of the year 2021's project, it is still the same as the year 2020, giving people and businesses and certain branches space to survive the economic consequences of the pandemic so that they will be both possible and more powerful when the wheels return, I want to reiterate what I mentioned earlier. I believe that the voice of the government is clear is a real change in results. We all know that no issue is at present more important for Icelandic society than the introduction of general vaccination as soon as possible. The second most important, of course, makes certain that there is uncertainty and that there is only a limited amount of access to it. Of course, none here expect any magic solutions, but we also know that the success of health matters is simply a prerequisite for economic success and the restoration of the building process is the result. So the uncertainty of these matters is dangerous and bad for all of us. Hence, it is important that the message be clear and direct. But my question is, simply, the creation of a vaccine now. That conversation was also active and awake in the community, so I would like to ask the highest. Minister to who is running the government's commission to collect material. What methodology is being carried out there, or ideologies, and can the public be helped to clarify the picture? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u58	A respectable president. Hv. A senator asks for the vaccine to be collected. This was covered in detail in a written letter to the council at the request of the Committee, which is very important. Like what? A senator knows that the world's pharmaceutical companies have placed great emphasis on the development of the vaccine, and many have delayed other projects, but to make such effort possible, governments and governments needed to finance the development of the vaccines without knowing when the product would then be seen. So the government had to pay up ahead of time, hoping that vaccines would develop. In the Northern countries, informal discussions of a collective budget and purchase began in April, but some time later it was decided that the European Union would lead such work on behalf of the Member States. In June, the European Union announced the Community Vaccine Programme, and soon the decision was made that Iceland and Norway would travel through Sweden with regard to the EU. [[The president calls.]] The Committee, or team, who are involved in the purchase of vaccines on behalf of the Icelandic government, has experts in the medical department. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u59	A respectable president. We're here on vaccine contracts and Covid-19. I'm just gonna have to say right now, we're going to have to take off our optimism glasses and put our senses on, because the situation is clearly that we're going to get a lot less vaccine doses than expected. Whether negotiations are wrong or something else does not matter in itself. We just have to accept the fact that we're coming back for the next few weeks to get relatively little, considering what our expectations were. In this context, we also need to realize that we must use these few doses that are coming right. I think it's kind of necessary, we've talked about the oldest, that we look after those who are ill, with underlying diseases, people with NPA, and like them, who have been basically locked up throughout the epidemic. These are individuals who simply have the right to get their first grades of vaccination and are, in effect, incomprehensible that it is not yet spoken of. I hope to the highest. A health secretary may inform me that these individuals will receive the vaccine as soon as possible. It was said that the boundaries on the border on May 1 could be relieved, and I'm just saying, For God's sake, one more trip to open borders is not going back. I'd like to point out in this context, I don't know if it's the highest. A health minister knows, or has heard of it, but I was reading a New Zealand report about a person who arrived on December 30, and took a sample, as given the understanding, and had negative results, followed by a 14-day tour of January 13, to return to the sample, negative. Two, three days later, he had Covid's bullshit. I ask, if this is true: Is the virus subtle that it has figured out that it can break the 14 - day bacteria, or is it the new variant, British or Brazilian? I would also like to point out that we are small kingdoms, and we must look to the initiatives of those outside Europe, such as Israel, who are also small kingdoms. The Israelites have already vaccinated 1.1 million people with two doses and 2.6 million people have received a first dose. Israel made a deal with Pfizer and stressed that the small country's size would provide additional information on the efficacy of the vaccine, but Israel's uniqueness also applies in Iceland. They're both small countries, and we're still smaller. So maybe we missed this train. It is said that Israel had to pay a considerably higher price for unity than the European countries, but in the large context, the ability to obtain herd resistance is far more valuable than the amount of savings involved in paying less for the vaccine. I'm asking the highest. Health Minister: What caused us to miss this train? And I really hope that May 1 doesn't exist to open the border.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u60	A respectable president. Hv. A senator may want to take away his optimistic glasses. I still ask him not to put on the shades because he claims here that we will receive fewer doses. That's wrong. We get all the doses we've agreed on. That's it. What is right is that there is a difference in time, and we do not get as much in the next few weeks as planned, but we only move on. Wait a minute. A senator not to be wrong. We are, a respectable president, seventh place in the world in terms of vaccination, seventh place in all the kingdoms of the world, so we are very successful. Hv. A senator specifically asks about certain groups. It is important to maintain that the inhabitants of the same group and those of daily care have been vaccinated and will be the primary target. We've talked about these priorities, as we've discussed before, me and the other. Senator. It may be the simplest thing in the world, as I've mentioned in the past, to say, after the fact that there should have been something different about securing Iceland access to vaccines. I am, a respectable president, convinced that the way we went, to accompany these strong, enlightened states in access that vaccine was the right decision. I'll keep it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u61	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A health minister gave me answers, but she didn't answer my questions about the border. I'm most concerned about that because the greatest danger is that it's coming into the border right now. We've had such good results, and I say it's worth the sacrifice, and I'd say it would be rather justified to close the border completely, just to close the border. I noticed today that there is one plane on its way to the country, I think from Copenhagen. I didn't see anything else. It's a risk. Based on what I heard from New Zealand, the virus can stay for more than two weeks and jump up, we are in grave danger. If we get free, we get it, then it's all going, unless it's traveling, but we can help it too. Now the government is talking, for example. to add a travel check, 10,000 bucks, 15,000 bucks. A travel check. Let us encourage people to go and get to know new places because they are only good for us. I take myself for example, last summer I went to the Merians that I'd never been to, I went to the City Fair, which I'd never been to. Let us encourage people to do so, and we must try to make sure that we only travel within the country, and we will be wise now. We got the virus out, and then we let tourists in, and the variants came back in, and it all went away. Don't do it again. We must know to lock the border rather, throw the key, and then pick it up when we've got cattle resistance.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u62	A respectable president. First of all, because of what. A senator is wondering about the position on the border, that it will be reviewed on May 1, of course, that is with all intents that we have gained a better grip on the epidemic than at present. There is a specific color encoding system that is built on specific scales, and we would be assuming that countries that had grown green were in position other than those that were red at that point. Iceland is for photographing the green accelerator right now, our community. I agree with what happened. A senator says that we are to travel within the country, and we will never have finished seeing all that our wonderful country has to offer. And because of what? A senator is talking about the Meriad Bulls' area, unfortunately, so that we cannot see the area near the glacier, which many of us have seen, but now we are sinking.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u63	Mr. President. First, I'd like to thank you for this discussion that I think has increased a bit of our understanding here and hopefully as many people in the community as possible on the status of vaccination against Covid-19. Actually, I just want to ask one factor, because I think most of them were in the discussion earlier today. I'd like to ask about one group on the list of priorities that's the last one, that's group nine. It is the preceding ten group, which can hardly be called priorities when it is the people who do not have the health or working conditions to take priority but are the people who want vaccination against Covid-19. A group of nine are sensitive individuals. I believed that after the Ministry of Health was at a meeting of a health committee earlier in the winter, it was in progress to move this group back into the chain even though there was only an internal harmony. This group is expected to include e.g. Unemployed prisoners. Prisoners are a fourth priority. Would it not be reasonable for people who share that space to be similar in the chain? The vulnerable individuals due to social and economic conditions are not identified in the priority group nine, but they are likely to be people in general who do not control their own habitat for various reasons. We may be talking about prisoners, people who are in the health departments' wards, homeless people, users serving Mrs. Ragnhei. Aren't these all the people we want to move back to the chain? One minister earlier said that it was on the sickbed to determine the priorities, but it can change if there are issues, and it can work with a health minister. So I would like to ask: Is it not reasonable for Ministers to revise the order of the nine individuals so that this delicate little group is not literally after all others?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u64	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It is true in the case of the senator that these are groups that are more often than not in control of their night place and therefore are in a forced position, as it were. I feel that the comments and speculations of the senator are entirely valid. The problem and the subject, however, is that we can always reason on the matter of bringing someone up, but at the same time we have to reason with someone else. This is what a psychiatrist has repeatedly noted, that each time we decide that someone else will go back in the order of the day, we are making a decision that someone else will go back to the rear. I did not realize, however, that this discussion had taken place in particular at the moment. A welfare committee, feeling that there is good reason to pick it up and will follow through on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u65	A respectable president. Thank you for the good response of the secretary to the inquiry. In this regard, whenever we discuss bringing up one group, we need to discuss how we bring someone in the opposite direction, it will not be overlooked that those who are expected under group nine and who are in a more sensitive position because of social and economic circumstances are often in such agricultural situations that if one individual becomes infected in that group, it may lead to a group of infectious agents. So there are, if you had held, public good reasons for bringing this group up. This would be working in behalf of all the groups for which this group would be moved, since it is not a matter of helping this group alone, but of preventing it from being exposed to infectious and determined to infect others. Now, I'd like to ask about the news of the delay of vaccine delivery around the world, whether or not the priorities in this country have been discussed in some way in our involvement in the COVAAX community, because we have a pandemic and as long as this epidemic continues to rage somewhere, it's always a threat to us. Would it be possible to draw a line somewhere in the middle of our priorities, saying: "When we are down from this line, we need to enter the multinational community service so that all the most vulnerable groups in poorer countries will not be placed behind groups that are far from sensitive in this country, thus cooperating with the world in a pandemic?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u66	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator again. In the ninth priority group, there are 1,000 people. That's the situation. I think it's a good idea to take a special look at this group. But I also trust a psychiatrist very well to do so, and in order to reason with him or her over the course of time. A senator is especially referring to. It does not change the way this discussion is put into words, it is always a delay for them to be delayed by someone else. If we put someone back, we'll put someone else back. It's just that way. The COVAAX work is important, and it is about obtaining vaccines for the whole world as well as for low-aching countries. We're strong partners in CVAX and we're involved. There we will continue to do our part because, as we have discussed in the past, it is not just about who is next to himself but about the fact that all the nations of the world have the same fight.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u67	V.E.G. President. The need for this discussion is urgent today, but the government has failed to inform the nation of the date when the vaccination will have been completed. Total chaos has marked the government's message of vaccination, and the population does not know when, how much, how much, and when vaccination will be completed. While there may be nuances, it is obvious that it was a mistake to rely only on the European Union to care for our interests. It is remarkable that governments did not think of a backup route. We now see countries, at least Germany and Denmark, who have secured an additional vaccine. Astrazeneca said this morning about vaccine research and the hope of Pfizer has not yet been given up by a surgeon. V.E.G. A health minister said so an hour later, today, that it was not possible to bypass the EU fleet, thus looking for other ways to extract the vaccine. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: Why not? Danes have gone that way, and Germany too, and there are both countries in the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u68	A respectable president. It wasn't much of a class, was it? But all right, there's only part of the reality here in the conference hall, that's something we have to try to understand. I'm pointing out what. A member of the Central Party Parliament and her members, who are not refreshed today as they are other days, found that the site vaccine.is is an excellent site in which facts are brought and there is no chaos, if any. A senator would try hard to keep track of it. It is not confirmed that Germany and Denmark missed a contract. We wish, a respectable president, to maintain the agreements we have made. It may not be, though. A senator will go to great lengths to see that such suggestions would be effective. However, the information discussed by the psychiatrist is studies that have been published, not vaccines, but those that have been bought. They are the ideas that have existed, but they have not included public discussions or discussions in the realm of the government. I stress how important it is and how fortunate it has been that it is the exception of members, members of Congress, and politicians who have tried to make a Covid-19 vaccine and preventative measures to get political bite bones. I'm sorry. A senator here for the exception.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u69	V.E.G. President. My second question is the B.V. Convention itself. Now I've requested a meeting on the World Health Committee and requested two requests. Councilmen, Sara Elísa Þórðardóttir's daughter and Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson. I asked for the meeting where I would like the members of the World Health Committee at least to see contracts that have been made on the menu. I mention it because it seems to me to be a secret cover over these contracts, and on that basis the welfare committee can ask for such information in confidence. The government must inform the Parliament about the contracts, about the time of delivery and the date of completion of vaccination. It is also important that the Icelanders be informed about how governments have written on their behalf and what is preventing us from seeing the agreements. Did the government yield to self - determination in a fleet under the EU, or are we not able to negotiate directly with the pharmaceutical companies? Who set this requirement for confidentiality and secrecy? Was it the EU? Were there pharmaceutical producers, or was it Iceland itself?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u70	A respectable president. As I have repeatedly considered in this discussion, it is my conviction that it was a wise and right decision to join European countries. I believe it has guaranteed us access to vaccines at the power of its solidarity. In case of a moment. A senator wishes that the welfare committee be accessed to certain data will be discussed in the Ministry in accordance with the laws and regulations. It will be done, and I want to make sure of it. However, as with any other drug contracts, it is not allowed to deliver them. That's what I'm talking about. A senator to know and to be well informed. But, of course, there will be trouble. The welfare committee answered.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u71	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the report and this discussion here. At the end of the discussion, perhaps most of the programs have already been included, but I would like to make some highlights. The basis is the following: What does the vaccination mean? What effect does it have? What steps can we take, and how will each step be affected? And another one that I'd like to get a little clearer. I agree with what we've been discussing here many times today as to what our struggle with this epidemic has done well, the struggle itself. We have not had to take such burdensome measures as other countries, organization and distribution of the vaccine have been successful, we have received the vaccine, and there is nothing wrong with telling how it has worked out. It is only a question of how fast we receive vaccines, how other countries are doing, and so on. But as long as all of this is happening, we all know that some things are certain, and more and more will be vaccinated. There are some groups. And what does it mean that priority groups have been vaccinated? When will the primary vaccination schedule be given? What's the total number? When are we fully vaccinated? Will a certain age be vaccinated? Then there's some group that don't want to be vaccinated, that's some estimate ratio. Then there are those who have received Covid and do not need to receive vaccinations. When are we fully vaccinated? What does "the majority of the people " mean? What number or groups are they? Where is your health care system when all forward workers and all those with underlying diseases have been vaccinated, this first priority group? Has their resistance become much greater? Does this give us reason for other stage shots, so we can say that when the prospective and those high - risk groups are vaccinated, we are in the position of being able to do something firmly without saying when it will be or something? But when certain things are done, what does that mean, that thing has happened or that goal has been achieved? I think we need to move on a little bit. This will help us to get a little certainty or a little regret in all the uncertainty we have here, so that all the sacrifices we have made in this burdensome state, all the wait for the vaccine, all the successes in this - what will it bring us and when? The basic question may be: What do all these programs and all our goals mean?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u72	A respectable president. As mentioned earlier in the discussion, it is and has been in the past few weeks a project on the Presidency of the Ministry, in cooperation with other departments, preparing a model showing us the interaction between the progress of vaccinations on the other hand and the reduction of preventative measures. Of course, all of this is with the fact that we need to see what the situation of the epidemic is when this stage is reached, the number of vaccinees is not in a void. In other respects, the situation of the epidemic depends on how we approach preventative measures. In a multi-media tissue, vaccine.is, which I specifically recommend, there is a great deal of information, not only information about communication with individual vaccine manufacturers, but also aspects of which. A senator is wondering about the compatibility of vaccinations and the barrier that we have achieved in individual groups, etc. The criteria for herd resistance have generally been between 60 and 70%. Then we might ask: 603/4-40% with what kind of vaccine? So we're talking about a vaccine that has 70% activity, 85% activity, 93% activity, etc.? We have agreements with various vaccine manufacturers, so that the way this material is set up in different groups affects the time that we are able to resist. But we certainly approach it with every step of the vaccination we have.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u73	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for these answers. We've all come to realize there's a lot of uncertainty, and there's a lot of different variables in this. But we have the responsibility here to try to explain things to people and companies. When can people and businesses begin to pursue a normal life and eventually go back to normal? Throughout the pandemic, the big evidence and the main reason for the burdensome limits on people and their business life have been because we have to protect our health so that we can handle this and protect the most vulnerable groups. What I'm calling in is when this job is carried out by the Ministry of Presidency - it would be interesting to know who is involved in the Ministry of Presidency and the Ministry of Health in making these scenarios. When can we find answers from that work? Is it not only when it comes to herd resistance that the vaccination has any effect? Or are there some steps along the way that allow us to take more time to relax or to relax? Does it have any effect on the border? We have a certain percentage of vaccinated persons, and then those who have already received Covid here, and if only relax on the border, I'm not saying they should open it completely, then natural large parts of Europe and the world are also being vaccinated and with antibodies so that they always increase the number of people that can come to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u74	A respectable president. Indeed, it is true. A senator points out that as vaccinations increase and the number of vaccinees increase, regardless of whether they have previously received a Covid-19 or have received a vaccination, all communication between countries will be simplified and there will be an opportunity for people to cross countries, etc. But the situation we're in - I know we've said too often that it's unprecedented, but it is. And now it is truly so that we are trying to take each step out of counsel and enlightenment, building on as much knowledge as we can. However, this match between statistical and vaccinations and preventative measures is surely very interesting. I've already seen it from both the statistical team and also from the Prime Minister's work, that there are certain boundaries that occur when a certain mass is reached and then again when sheep resistance is reached.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u75	Mr. President. It is not easy to run the train in a thorough discussion that a minister has shared in and best thanks for it. It has appeared in the public discourse 24 times and readily answered questions. A vaccine is the word of the day at present in excess of others, and no wonder. It involves many people with magical powers, a sure restoration to normal life. Only a month later, the government and the health authorities suggested that vaccination goals be met in the first quarter of this year. By then we would have been edgy, life, spring, and summer, even smiling at us. They may not have lived up to their expectations. Last week, a talk presented itself. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon, president of the General and Education Committee, was unusually optimistic that day but complained that it would have been delayed by ordering and payment of a vaccine but then added that he had reasoned that it would be a good thing in the near future, as if it were a matter of time to expect, something unexpected. I'm asking the highest. Minister: What did the senator mean? Can a minister confirm that there is some discriminatory statement that we the common people do not know about? Or was it just cutting dust and giving off misinformation one more time? Of course, we know that more future producers are coming, which hopefully will make it faster than ever, but there is a certain risk and uncertainty in the process we are dealing with, unique circumstances. Isn't it quite arranged, Mr. President, that the deadlines and plans of the government in this regard have gone under way and there will be a significant delay in vaccinations in the country? It is now known that it will not be until the end of March that the vaccination of all over 70 will be over. [[The president calls.]] Is it not easier to prepare the people and talk about the frank delay in vaccination, even until the last quarter of the year? [[The president calls.]] Mr President, has waiting management at these delicate times not only gotten out of hand? [[The president calls.]] That's part of the government, isn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u76	Has a what? In this discussion, a senator may consider what the president has been able to do many times? [[Up front.]] It was just a little nonsense.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u77	A respectable president. I want to thank the senator for their count of how many times the person being here has had to answer. I think that's also one of those things that is unprecedented, but it's only done with joy. Hv. A senator goes a little high on chapters about things going wrong and out of control, etc. I'd still like to say what. A senator sincerely believes that the information I have in front of me and that the delay in the production of vaccines from Pfizer and AstraZeneca is not about us getting less within the quarter of the year. That's at least I have that information now. Hv. A senator can call it some misunderstanding on the planning or what it is, but I don't care about what's called expectation management or anything else. I just want to make an effort to account for things as much as I can at any point. Oh, boy. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon was referring, however, when he was optimistic. Hv. A senator has to deal with this. A senator whether he was exceptionally well lit up on that particular day or what he was wondering. But I'd like to say it to what. As a member of Congress, I have no particular interest in keeping something from members of the council, so I have emphasized that the site is updated each day. I would like to thank the council for having been prepared repeatedly to discuss these important matters, but at the same time, I would like to avoid being under the impression that there is something other here than the will to tell the truth and the truth. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u78	Mr. President. It was not my intention to suggest in any way at the highest. A minister would be hiding information, not at all. On the contrary, it is most commendable. A minister has been effective in informing the council and the nation of the situation. Many, however, have come to realize that misinformation are involved and that it is not good to see real situations, what is going on. Of course, we in the United States are happy to work hard to sort out, I don't want to call it a lot of information but misleading information, and I don't think it's any observation that a minister has had good cooperation with all partners and the Congress on planning and implementing vaccinations. Of course, speaking of planning and not being aware of things, it is characteristic in this situation. During an interview at the Wave of the Year, a psychiatrist told us that we had to prepare for three stage shots of this. The first stage would be that it works, and we'll get a vaccine fast. It may not work. The second example would be that there will be some factors to support the production of vaccines. Then we'd have to be prepared for severe hiccups and production, vaccine not working or serious side effects, and people don't want to be vaccinated. Is the government working out these or other stageworks, and what forms? Today, some have criticized the process behind providing vaccine for the nation through the EU. I do not agree with the critical but, in contrast, encourage a minister to rejoice in the practice of vaccinating the nations as soon as possible, and I'm sure that will be necessary. But would it have been realistic and reasonable to overlook the European Union in this matter? [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. Minister has answered, and I agree with her. However, in terms of the potential for vaccination and the potential agreement with Pfizer on the vaccine of all the people, the highest levels are considered. Ministers for a reason and natural that this is done without consultation with other European countries or possibly the EU? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u79	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the pep talk. I know she follows good wishes and has no reason to think of anything else. With regard to a study for Iceland that would be about what a psychiatrist has talked about and the director of Icelandic genetics, we don't know, the government doesn't have any information. It's totally like that. However, it is quite clear that hopes are in order to increase the production of the key tools listed here, as well as the fact that other materials are available from both Janssen and CureVac, which we have not yet signed. I really hope that as soon as we succeed in vaccinating the majority of the people, we will have the wisdom to go back together because it really is important that our society have power over the epidemic as well as what we are gradually finishing the series. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u80	A respectable president. It is both enjoyable and enjoyable, and it is probably also beneficial to have an opportunity here to discuss these matters only together. I believe it is important to have an opportunity to have a conversation with the Generals and always have received their wishes in the past. I want to reiterate it to the point. Councilmen can follow up updated information every day on the body cup.is as well as a variety of information on covid.is. At the same time, I'd like to encourage all of us to be part of the front door and to participate in looking ahead because I think that's the way for us; to put together strings, to endure and to endure, as well as to build on the strengths of this society that we're lucky enough to be part of.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u81	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill on changing growth and insurance laws, restrictions on the use of insurance in loan agreements to consumers. I would like to open my speech by saying that it is special at this critical time to follow this point in the great discussion of vaccinations presented here. So you have to put yourself in positions and change your gear. This discussion began on Thursday with an excellent talk, a discussion of history, the highest. Financial and economic ministers. I had not necessarily planned on this discussion, but the discussion was very good. When I say good things, I'm looking into things. For four decades, we have enjoyed the so - called Ólaus law, which was set up in the very clear and specific purpose of preventing the provision of property that inflation was driving at that time. Since then, of course, much has changed in society, circumstances, economy, employment, employment market, money policy, financial policy, etc. We've been going through swings, and we've been through a crash. All this time, we've been discussing this phenomenon, the rate of growth, this loan system that has been available, and we've read about the benefits and disadvantages of many reports and articles. The responses in the political bitch are often they, to cover complex issues, to put this in single sentences, agreements, and to try to push it forward, even to make it sound good for political policy. Here, however, we are looking at a huge matter in the context of our wanting to make sure that we all can put a roof over our head, which we talk about as a basic need. The case, as it is presented here, is being followed by the recommendation in a government contract that the government takes at least certain steps during the term for disintegration of insurance. That is how it is put in a government covenant. In the past, when it has been mentioned that we eliminate insurance, it has often been made as if something is bad because of banning something, and we don't like yokes. There are a number of concepts involved in this arrangement that are insure growth. This is also part of government action in support of biographies between labour agreements. I thought it was the highest. Financial and economic ministers are very careful about the matter in their front storynote, both historically and in terms of what to consider. As soon as I welcome this bill, as the candidates and I have long pointed to an advantage of 40 years of credit, I'd also like to say that those who participated in this initial discussion came with very good tips. In fact, the highest. Mr. President, I don't recall such a more balanced and careful discussion on this subject. They're what they were. Congress members who participated in the discussion reviewed the key factors involved in this loan process, and they scrambling over and over and over again, I mean, have been getting in the middle of a political discussion. I'll come in on it for a second. Both of them. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson and what. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Isafassson was very careful about the negative effects of this loan form and the imbalance between loanrs and borrowers in terms of knowledge and risks associated with this form. When we talk about risks, we would like to mix them with another concept, which we discuss very much here today, which is uncertain. There's a connection, but it's very important to distinguish what's called uncertainty, as well as what's a risk. There's always some uncertainty about the future if we just look ahead to the future. In this loan system, creditors, borrowers, naturally reduce uncertainty, ensures that the risks of future fluctuations are involved. That is how we need to distinguish what is called uncertainty and risks. The initial contribution was made by inflation, which included: The objective of the flounders to prevent and perhaps the main objective. Hv. paritaprevir Bryndís the Haraldsdóttir joke made it so important that this option was important to people who couldn't handle a lot of cash in the first place, so it would be an option. This has often been the subject of discussion. Why are we banning things? Why can't people just choose? Then we must answer what people are choosing. Why can't we plan an arrangement with borrowing rates and borrowers, that's not what this is about? We have traffic laws, people don't go to red light. There is no choice, people cheat, and walk across if they don't see a car. This is what I'm talking about. Over the years, we're getting caught up in this kind of thing when we're trying to simplify it. This is hardly a good choice, could be said to be fair because the head chair - we pay little at the beginning, because we manage it, that is, a load of payment - is piled up and property is going to be slow, if any of the early years. It is not uncommon to discuss, but it is a theoretical fact that the precise measurement of the index, which is the measure of the price change. They sometimes talk about diapers. He hasn't been fully studied here, but I can refer to fine paper, recently, from the Habitat where this is discussed, and several Icelandic scholars, economists, have considered this. They're what they were. Senators who participate in the discussion can correct me if this has been studied at that point. However, there are foreign studies. In this report, Vilhjálmur Birgisson's son, who, if I recall correctly, returned one of the two reports in 2014. Most of the time, he's eating too much. How fair is that? Is it an option to select loan forms in which the basis does not calculate entirely correctly, overrated, and the loan also depends on the loan? The loans I'm referring to are the guarantees of a 40-year credit loan, and this bazaar is done well in Vilhjálmur's report. I'm not gonna spend my time in a technical format on all these farms, but it's called surrogates, quality diapers, newcomers, and buyers. All in all, in principle, the inflation is measured according to the index price of consumer prices, which are basic to the price of pay loans, and at times we have spoken of a poisonous cocktail, one of the clichés that has flown here over the years. The cost of inflammation is measured by this index of consumer prices and is not measured properly, i.e. The high value reduction of the currency is, as I said, overputed. The bill we discuss here includes two basic steps to reduce the value of insurance and the rest of these loans are setting maximum time, 25 years, but with the exception of low income and young people, that is conditional, and, to a minimum, it is ten years. This is indeed taking steps to ensure that people who cannot take away unsecured loans, such as those offered in the banks, until 40 years of age with a higher burden of payment, cannot handle it, but who want to get off on the road, can assume even credit. The most important thing to me is this, and it even came. ... inthewarsofthemax. Minister and minister. paritaprevir Ólafur's Ísleifsson, Isleus, is the compliment that insurance is not a problem but the inflation. Let's think about this for a minute. This has been forwarded over the years, and somehow it has just come out of the question. I thought it was the highest. A minister does very well to present two points of view in this regard, the money policy and the individual. We received an excellent summary report on the future of Icelandic money policy, a reevaluation of the framework of money policy. It clearly shows how much impact insurance can have on the bites of the steering growth device. It says that the media is more effective and more powerful when changing unconvinced interest, but much weaker in long - term prices interest, as in the case of such loans. This has inhibited the function of money policy. If we look at it from the person's point of view, I'll agree with it. paritaprevir Ólafur Is Ísleifsson said, insurance is an independent problem. It's important to discuss this from that point of view, money policy/company. The person looks forward to bringing a roof over his head, which is a basic need, in which we as a community contributes. Most of the times, in this 40 - year - old history, growth reforms, and the like, have been to support people and the loans that have actually contributed to the need for us to have other shapes to help people through having these things all this time. So there are some things that have to do with that, chief. Mr President, we should even take the step to the full. I realize now that I can't get over a third of what I was going to talk about here. It may be that I return to my talk, at least I'm going to follow up on what is going on here. I'd like to encourage you. The Economic and Business Committee, I'd like to anyway, to take it seriously to take the step all the way, let the interest of loans be entitled to their real name. So business management is called interest, this is a payment of the loan money, and they are available in agreements with righteous conditions and for change. [[The president calls.]] That's all that recommends it, and we who are in the politics no longer have to put this into a cliché that's always getting in our way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u82	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson for his speech was marked by the calmness and reasonableness that he is noted for. During the discussions here, I remarked that you had chosen to be a bigger and more intensive step to your insurance policy. I'm going to make the mortgage a special subject in this counterargument. It was shown in the response of a minister, to a request I may have asked two years ago or so, that over the years in 2013-2017, prices were added to an apartment loan, i.e. A loan of deposit in an apartment building, and if only the general prices, as we see in shops and any other such, would have gained 15 billion, but because of the housing team, a total of 133 billion would have fallen on these mortgages. This means that only the housing team produced property transfers, from homes to financial institutions, up to 113 billion. These numbers are so large that they are natural astrophysics. What's going on? The senator was calling for a report on the mortgage. [[The president calls.]] She has been lying here for some time, and I might have wondered what conclusion she made. A senator reveals these facts, i.e. On the one hand, from the answer to this provision, and from this report. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u83	V.E.G. President. I can answer this in a very simple way, and thank you very much. A senator for a good question. I feel that this is primarily an indication of how unfair these loans are. That's key. And then we can ask ourselves, whether we're looking at key numbers, numbers, indicator numbers, or what it's all called together, how important it is for us to follow a index number that is comparable to others in use. There has been much discussion about the housing staff in these areas. I know why. A senator is far superior to me when it comes to dealing with economic terms, but I'm going to leave it in this context with the host to swing and he's inside the index, and that's what's spoken of as a currency, worth outside, and inner value. We have some index number, and we have a residence inside and then some things happen, as has happened here, that housing prices suddenly start to rise very fast over very limited periods, and no very long periods - I think about the years after the turn of the century when prices and oils increase dramatically - and it goes straight into the index and into loans. Then we're going after it by growing interest. [[The president calls.]] I'm not going to say that the over-establishment in the book is going to be more important, but all of this will disturb my respect if I allow myself to say it that way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u84	The president asks why. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u85	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. They look to our conversations, such as those we are participating in today, and have done a few natural things before, what it takes to tear ourselves out of the insurance business. Price insurance came about, Mr. President, in a very different situation today, in a very different society. By then, it had been very inflation for a decade, and right or wrong, sometimes known as a class. A senator I'm dealing with. But such loans, insured loans, are very complex in nature. They are put together on one side by what would be called traditional loans, such as textbooks and all of them, but then there is another part of the case in a financial science derivative, i.e. that money makes changes to one of the things that are outside the other sort of credit agreement, so no one knows in advance about the sum of a single amount during the loan period. What is needed, that judgment should be done. A senator, so we're gonna rip ourselves out of this? We have, for example. Good neighboring people in the North, who are keeping an eye on Iceland's financial skills but who have not recorded them. Why can't we just have the planning on mortgages for people in the North countries, e.g. correspondent in Denmark
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u86	Madam President. I appreciate the question. I thought why. A senator will answer this in the beginning. We live in a very different society and situation. We can put this into context. When the Olafs Law was given 40 years ago, it was because the inflation had been attributed to property. Three decades later, we saw another type of possession. We were here before, in a previous answer, discussing values and may be said, it may be a bit extreme, but I'm going to still say, that there was a ownership of the insurance policy, property transfer in the other direction. It can't work. We live in a very different situation today. We have a wide range of employment issues, and I'm allowing myself to assert all other circumstances when we look to economic management, more knowledge when it comes to money and financial policy, and I'm not talking about understanding that this is going to play in any way. I say, here's the ideal situation in low-growing environments to take the step all the way in which I can design a system of loans that is equal. Also, I'm going to leave meditation here in connection with the pension fund that there were 3.5% times in the history of the conversation. We want to ensure the value of the crown, and I understand that when I am 20 years old, I want to be able to buy bananas when I'm 70 years old for the same crown. But why do I have to be able to buy a banana and get a caramel bag? What does that justify?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u87	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. I took note that he mentioned two factors that are very important in this discussion, i.e. as much credit as a lender. Then he entered what is called an overrated index of consumer prices, which has been discussed in the Senate hall and in the court. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Izzoff went very well at the last assembly, and I appreciate it. That is a subject that has been too little to discuss, but it is of great importance. It has been observed here that insurance was put in over 40 years ago, in a very different setting. 60% of inflation occurred in the country when insurance was applied. Now we're seeing the protection of inflation, which has actually gone up a bit surprising, 4.3% has become. We can see that today's economy has a completely different economic stability than that of 40 years ago, which is very positive. All circumstances tell us that in the present situation, insurance is not really justified; it was placed in very different circumstances. That's when I wanted to ask. Senator if he thinks this bill is going far enough. Today, the situation is very practical to take even further steps in freeing the homes and businesses and the people of the country from the commitments of insurance that have caused many families and companies much dismay. For many things it is very unfair how it has particularly affected the other person, the borrower.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u88	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. There's two things I'm gonna come in on. First, I'm going to answer the question straight: No, I don't think this bill is going far enough. I have hoped that a financial and business committee will take the step all the way and I think that there's hope for it, considering what I've heard in the discussion so far. I thought the discussion here on Thursday was very good, and then I'm just comparing the subject of insurance so far. She was fair, she was grammatical, and she presented a great many factors that matter in this. The other is this economic stability. What do we have with economic stability? Yes, we would like to talk about meritability. For our benefit, we have enjoyed merit. True, in comparison with the inflation goal, the inflation rate is slightly higher now than we have expected. That's very important. I'm not gonna talk about if we're gonna get caught taking the step all the way, and if there's more to the steering device, it's gonna be a part of a money policy. We're supposed to do this now. Although the discussion has often been a lot of talk and the terms were many, and we're in the middle of each other here at the High General Assembly, we may be putting our arms around this discussion, and I have high hopes that we will take steps at the same time. I agree with that. Senator, that's the ideal situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u89	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson, president of the legal committee, for a very good answer. It's a pleasure to have him believe that this bill has not gone far enough. The minister of finance and even the one hoping that he will go even further in this matter. I can assure you what. A senator is certainly a member of the Central Party. We have very much talked about canceling the insurance policy, the Central Party, and under the faithful leadership of each other. paritaprevir Ólafur the son of Ísleifsson in that lawsuit has offered suggestions and other such in this regard. Indeed, we will support the fulfillment of that promise. This is one of the delightful answers I've received here since I sat down at the council, how quickly. A senator makes good progress in these matters. He is the chairman of a legal committee, so, yes, he is a great influential member of the government team, and I hope he can exert himself in these matters. There's something else I wanted to come into at the end only. We know that the year 2020 is a very important year, and it will late disappear from memory. In 2020, too, the year when an Icelandic home fled the insurance policy. And the reason is well known, there is a natural large-scale unskilled lender that is positive and will begin after the lack of growth in the Federal Bank began in May 2019. There's a bit of a concern now, as we'll see at the highest. Secretary of finance, the inflation has only gone up right now. That's not a concern, is it? A senator, that inflation is now in progress, especially in view of how many have taken an unscrupulous loan in the belief that this will continue to exist? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u90	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's question. There are a lot of things in it that I would like to discuss. First, I'd like to say that if we take the step all the way, there are two very important things, because we want to support young people and take a plague to get a roof over their heads and their families. The dividends are examples of this. It's also in the government covenant, and that's an operation I'm going to refer to. Thus, as soon as we support the individual, we need to support the money policy, and we support the loan environment. I'm also going to trust in a loan agency where there is great knowledge and imagination and innovation in this field. When we talk about loans and reimbursements, there's really no money, I think I can claim it, another more loyal loan than a mortgage to consumers. It's just handing, if they don't pay off almost 100%, something big or great needs to happen. Yes, we're supposed to use every means available and to continue as far as possible in economic stability, in prices. The inflation is not to be initiated. In the historical setting, we always react only when inflation strikes. I think it's gonna be a pretty tricky job for us here to deal with this when we kick out of the crowner. Only then will we have to watch this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u91	Madam President. This is very interesting. I would like to add this discussion of friendship that has not been heard before as far as I know. There's a nail in the coffin, that's what I think. It has been said that this possibility cannot be banned in loan forms, but the problem is that it is a loan system that is not usually meant to exist. It should not be allowed to offer such a loan system. The reason is that the index of consumer prices on which insurance insurance is based is a measure. That means when the price goes up - and I'm going to measure how high the puzzle works - I see the change, and then I'm gonna have to go up a little bit more because I measured the change. [[The Senator's raising the hole.]] [[The Senator's going to raise the hole again.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Then I'll have to increase more and more, and so on. Suppose the prices in society are zero, so you add something, raise the price of something, and the index price of consumers has changed. If rent contracts or loans are associated with this instrument, rent prices will increase compared to an increase in the index price of consumer prices, which means that what the index price of consumer prices will go up because of the increase in insurance. It's a vicious circle. The vicious circle is what we must cut. It should be illegal to use a measuring device to influence what is being measured. It would be very difficult to use the Celsius scale on scientific measurements if it was always changing what it really means; if in the next study report we would write the Celsius figures anything else, if I had to consider the index of Celsius Scales or something similar, in order to recalculate all the previous Celsius numbers in all other scientific fields. It's not working. The balance of consumer prices is a measuring device, fixed in size. For a long time, the definition of a kilogram was a specific object. Because of various chemical reactions, etc. then the weight changed to this object, which automatically changed the definition of what a kilogram is. Such things are distributed around the world so that they can be reached into this standard, i.e. each kilogram is But things in different parts of the world have changed in weight from one to another, so they are no longer so heavy. As a result, in different parts of the world, only what they have in France is the final site; in fact, it shows the weight. But the total weight of a kilogram was reduced. A little bit, but it went down. Exactly as if it's supposed to be a measuring device, it doesn't work anymore. We must think of the measuring instruments we use to see how the economy develops, based on the question of whether the cycle is being measured or not, because if the standard is measuring itself, it is useless. The balance of consumer prices doesn't tell us anything because it's measuring itself. Therefore, no lease agreements, not on loans, nowhere, have an excuse for increase in the index price of consumers and, as a result, will be able to raise the rent price. This is not to be done because it changes, and because you raised the price of sale, the index is increasing, and the rent prices need to be re-escalated without anything else being changed. That is absurd in one word. Just this one thing, this one simple reason, this cycle we have to watch and keep out of the system - it's not easy, I'll tell you, it's not default - it should be enough to take the index price of consumers and take the insurance and throw it out the window.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u92	Mr. President. The bill we're discussing here includes a change in growth law and insurance insurance that includes placing restrictions on who can take so-called Iceland loans, which are guaranteed as money loans to 40 years old. If the bill is legal, it will be forbidden to take over 25 years of secure mortgages, but there are a few exceptions from that ban. This allows people under 35 years of age to continue to borrow for up to 35 years, and a borrower between 35 and 40 years of age can be borrowed to up to 30 years of age. Those with monthly incomes of less than 350,000. or a married couple or household with a monthly income of less than 600,000. You can continue to borrow 40 years. Furthermore, limitations on the granting of new prices of credit loans will not be valid in the management of older loans but only in the granting of new loans. Also, there is no limit to the granting of the prices of a stable mortgage. Therefore, it is suggested that groups most likely to take long - term loans; young people with low monthly interest. The 25 - year - old prohibition should not apply to such individuals. The bill also includes the forbidden loan of inflation for less than ten years. Mr. President. It cannot be said that the government took no particular initiative in this case. Rather, it is here on a matter required by the labor movement in the biographies. In this, governments eventually committed themselves to ban 40 years of price - guarantee loans. In fact, under biographers contracts, governments were to consider forbidding any price - free loan by the end of 2020. Though there is good reason, it is not apparent that this was examined, but I must say that I place considerable hopes in what was presented in the speech of the dog. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson son of Thor, president of the budget board, earlier, felt that this step should go further and go all the way. It is hoped that governments will see to it that after the work ahead of them on the committee and take a handsome look at this, the insurance policy has brought untold difficulties to the land's homes and businesses over the years. The public has spent years in bondage to insurance and high interest on the mortgages and interest rates are generally much higher here than in our neighboring countries. It has not been necessary to go beyond the Faeroe Islands in order to obtain decent housing. However, there have been unusual problems in the past few months, but there is uncertainty as to whether this will continue. The drawings of rising inflation are not good news. Price insurance was put on for about a year ago. In Iceland, for example, the economic conditions were quite different from those of today. The reason for retaining insurance at the time was that inflation was high and economic conditions were bad, inflation was about 60%, as I said earlier, and economic instability was high. During the past 12 months, the index of consumer prices in this country has increased to 4.3% and the index price of consumers without housing in 4.7%. Inflation has not been so much in this country since August 2013, and, of course, this is a concern. Yet, there has been a stability of the economy, which is positive. Every situation today tells us that if we compare to the time when insurance was put on it, insurance is not entitled to them. Still, we still live in insurance. This program has repeatedly discussed the importance of reducing the value of insurance. Political groups regularly, mostly in the process of elections, eliminate insurance, reduce its impact, but the impossible is happening in that subject, and is unfortunate. In the United States, interest rates are now very low in historical context. The United Nations must unite that the future and insurance insurance will be removed from the Icelandic economy so that young people can have a home without being in debt for decades after buying their first apartments. In fact, I believe, Mr. President, that there really was just a little boldness and impenetrable among politicians to eliminate the insurance policy. I think politicians were afraid to take that step. Now the situation is very practical, so it should be easy for them to take this step. Sadly, though, many of them are overly colored by officials who view this in historical terms and may need boldness to take this step. When the situation is good, as is the case today, there should be no basis for it. Of course, the bill here matters, and I support it. However, it does not go far enough toward my judgment, and I agree with it. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson. I also mentioned earlier that in 2020, there are a number of major causes, and it will soon disappear from memory. But this year, too, was the year when Britain's Icelandic home fled the insurance policy and the extent of the unsecured new housing that the banks provided to their country's homes, above and beyond their expenses, was more than 363 billion. The country's pension funds, the big creditors at the housing market, also became a huge recession in the allocation of new responsored loans. Of course, the reason for this rapid change is largely unsurpassed credit rates. In May 2018, since the beginning of a fall in stature in the Federal Bank, operating growth rate has decreased from 4.5% to 0.75%. As a result, more than 3% of the interest in housing loans can be taken unconvinced. This is an amazing change from the time Iceland had to accept a much higher rate of growth and insurance. Maybe we just needed a new bank manager, who knows? Mr. President. In this connection it is necessary to discuss one thing that I only came up with an counter, which is an overevaluation of the index price of consumption as a dog. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Isleustafsson has stepped in with his previous talks at the council and what to do. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson also came into it earlier in his talk. It's been happening here at the council Hall, and it's important when we discuss the insurance policy. It is generally recognized that the index of consumer prices overrated general prices. This overassessment, however, may cost the home owners, and those with insured loans, a substantial amount of money. It is estimated that it may be in the range of five to twenty-five billion dollars, considering that the house's securities may be about 1.700 billion or so. This error, this excess; the lenders of the land, the houses of the land, have to pay. This is simply an increase in homes'debt in a questionable way. What does it justify that the homes of the country, the people, the lenders, need to pay for a measure of error? This matter has been given way too little attention, and in fact, there should be special discussions at the council on this subject and ways to prevent home and loaners from paying for it. There's nothing fair about that. Why is it not handled by the creditors of banks and apartment loans? There are some of the interests behind which some people want to defend and others don't interfere. This is a clean, completed system of property, and some would even go so far as to say that it was taken free of charge, letting borrowers borrow for measurement. Most of the studies performed with total chromatography in index assays suggest that it is positive and indexing overactivity, therefore, inflation. Never do these discrepancies be negative, have people noticed, so that they underestimate the inflation and borrowers of my city? It never is. It may be a strange coincidence that this is not the case. This is a serious matter for the public in Iceland who lives in the bond of insurance and has been described here. I believe it is urgent to take a closer look at this matter, Mr. President, because it is of great interest and concern to most people. It is important that a complete assessment of the alcohol consumption margin should be performed in Iceland and the total amount evaluated. Such a study would ensure more precise measurement of the index. It's very important to the homes. It is important that such an overall index-level defect study should be conducted so that the results become reliable and neutral so that they are generally accepted. This is a matter that has not gone high, kind of been hidden, so to speak, but can have a powerful effect. It is noted here that the U.S. Senate Department of Elders has examined the role of an index consumer in the State's welfare system to provide suggestions on the subject. The results of interest were that the increase in the demand for services and quality, etc., which all make indicator measurements more complex. The newcomers were previously taken into the index, with a much greater delay, so to speak, but they walk and happen today. In many cases, much of the households were generally used before they became the basis for the index price of consumers. It is much the weakness of the index that it takes no account of the fact that consumers tend to shop less in value and more products that have become more and less expensive. Most studies in the United States have shown that total body clots in index assessments indicate positiveness and the indicator counts of overstimulated inflation, as mentioned earlier. Over time, the pattern of consumption changes. Thus, the base measured by the index ceases to reflect the consumption composition and scale measured by this base must be regularly adjusted and adjusted due to consumption. We're getting very little information about how regularly this is updated here. It is made up of so - called sample scans of the products. Price information is collected regularly, but we don't know much about when the scales are evaluated, i.e. The index line, which then increases the value of the loan, will be measured. When we buy e.g. There, fuel at a gas station is a perfect computer device that measures the amount of money we buy and pumps on the car, and this equipment is regularly checked by a law firm. We are confident that we will receive the quantity of money we pay for. Of course, the oil companies do not want to give us more than we pay. It's never gonna happen. It's a good thing to do because it's a technique that measures it. But when the indexing equipment measures too high, which studies have shown to be a frequent event, the public needs to pay in the form of an increase in loans. In this, Mr. President, there is a terrible injustice. It's just that simple. Real estate loans are the most loyal loans you can make. Real estate bets are generally the best bets. As a result, standards for risk and development should lead to lower rates of growth than in general should be given the high guarantee gained by the borrower. When we look at the discrepancies I mentioned, Mr. President, who can handle a substantial amount, the dreaded unfairness of borrowing is needed. This, however, is a classic example of the high standard in Iceland between borrowing and borrowing. We must, Mr. President, unite in this chamber to change this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u93	Mr. President. I'm gonna start by thanking you. Þórarinsson For the sake of a wonderful and vivid and interesting speech. He approached things, especially at the end, from a point of view that I would like to hear more, i.e. that we build our economy to a considerable extent on economics that are not just difficult to measure but up to the impossible, and they are unfair. It is unfair how they affect consumers and society everything, but for some reason we pretend to be completely normal and that these errors do not matter. But, of course, it's wrong. I wholeheartedly agree with what I have to say. A senator on this matter. I wanted to take this opportunity to ask you why. A senator's decision is, " Is this not a reason to examine how we can make the economy a whole system more beneficial and, therefore, the measurements more significant, even completely significant? ' I don't know if that's necessarily possible, but there have been some excellent experiments and many excellent books on how to go in that direction. I've talked about the experiments of Stafford Beer in Chile in 1970-1973, but it'd be nice to hear if it happened. A senator has thought something about trying to automate the economy in order to improve the exact economic standards we rely on in real life.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u94	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I know he's well - versed in these matters, and he's well-readed and studied many economic theories, I know, and always interesting to discuss at the moment. A senator. There is truly a need for transparency in general in the economy, e.g. ... incharacterworkandcharacteristics. We have taken up so - called advisers, for example, to try to get more transparent of what it's like to be making use of the funds, in the way the money goes. There are many things that need to be corrected. Thank you. A senator for this fine illustration, i.e. In the face of overevaluation of the index, which has enormous financial impact, it is incredibly unfair to think that all this overevaluation will take on borrowers. One person, like I did in my talk, asks, "Why hasn't there been more inspection? The height is huge, and it's just fun to reflect this onto the economy in general, like the dog. A senator came in and is a very interesting idea that could be cooperated. V.E.G. Secretary of finance has said that there is a lot of waste in the public system, but unfortunately, I have not seen independents offer specific suggestions to counteract that waste. In many places, money can be handled much more effectively, and it is of course a matter of how we employ money and that Kingdom. A senator rightly mentioned, which is a very pleasant presentation of this case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u95	Mr. President. Yeah, that's a good way to go. A senator goes in. It is almost a matter of pondering over the weaknesses of our founding system. At the end of the day, the question is: If we are to measure these economics correctly, we need institutions to measure them correctly. I know that the Habitat people are doing their best but the experiment is that it's in praxize calculated in a way that numbers are moved into an excel document, and then a specific button is pressed and it comes out of a given result. Only a few years ago was a big mistake. It was forgotten to select a field that made it wrong for several months. You wonder now, when most of the money is done through a spray, when most are electronic, why we can't do a little better. Without injuring the Haggers, they've only got their own institutions and can't do anything more than what we say by law, but isn't it time we start taking into account just how much good we need to do in the economy so that the economics are right and then we're going to take care of our living room and these institutions? There are other institutions. The scientific price of consumers is the natural large link in securable loans, but it is not the only location where the index price is used. It is used in many places to update pay, used in many places to calculate a wide range of different sizes and derivatives that occur in the economy over this one size, which is always miscalculated, must have an effect on the whole economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u96	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. This is an interesting discussion, and it is very important to us. I think that's a good idea. A senator said that we would take on a much broader basis how we can improve these processes and see to it that such discrepancies are the least minor, and especially that they do not happen to those that should least happen, as we have experienced for many years, e.g. on the price insurance and the index of consumer prices in this regard. However, there are other areas in which we are seeing discrepancies that can result in significant costs for national preparation and loss of income. We saw for a very brief time that a Merit Research Institute made some mistakes in the measurements of the hairy stem and released a gill on the fur that was lower than the motive, i.e. It was originally 50,000, but then it was raised to 61,000, due to some failure of measurements. This has a significant effect on the national structure. It's a huge loss of income for the ready, so we can see how important it is for humans to get used to all such measurements as that. A senator went well. I reiterate that I think there's a full need for this inspection, for a special discussion on this matter with the Commission, on what men are doing. Is working on these things, or is this something that you've come to accept, that there's just some discrepancies, etc.? All of this is increasing inflation and prices in the country. We see that the government's annual budget increase is bringing up the index number. I mention, for example, an increase in the state's carbon tax, it returned an increase in the index of 0.1%, for example. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u97	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator's speech is excellent and put into his discussion. I'm going to reiterate what we talked about here in the past, countering that we should be able to take the step to the full. An important part of it, because we talk about circumstances and circumstances. A senator came into it in his speech, in terms of merit. The merit of application is now in a practical way. We can add healthy economic growth and full - time employment, as it is called. So that we can get this done on a financial and business committee, and I'm really impressed. Once again to take advantage of this opportunity, we must only scratch our heads. In fact, I think most economists are now scratching in their head because we have an inflation that is just over my inflation goals and boundaries. We are, as many have said in this talk chair, going through the deepest economic crisis for 100 years, with a huge load of manufacturing and heavy unemployment. I don't expect to what. A senator will answer this, but I think it's important that we use this opportunity here and discuss these things, what's going on. We have our own money policy, and I know that we will respond in the right way. Compatibility is not necessarily bad, especially if it is on the demand side. There is a demand for goods and services, and at the same time the secondary demand for labor is healthy and is accompanied by economic growth. However, the cost of prophylaxis may be poor. We know this from the time we were dropping, and the expense of terms increased. [[The president calls.]] What does this increase in in inflation or inflation now explain?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u98	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator and I would like to agree with him that in the great financial and downturn, unemployment, and difficult conditions that the nation has experienced over the past few months, the opportunity to take the step to the finish and to eliminate the commitments once and for all. I'm not sure this opportunity will come back soon, so practical and good opportunity to go all the way. I thank you again. A senator for agreeing with us in the Central Party on this matter and stressing this. I really hope that he, as a member of a major body, can exert himself for the realization of this. Hv. A senator also asked what would explain the rise in in in inflation. I'm sorry to say that I think the government itself has a lot to do with the rise in in inflation. During the New Year's season, a number of government - based joints increased, and the amount of fuel and oil and the carbon. All of this increased and is a factor in increasing the index and then increasing inflation. I specifically mentioned earlier that the rate of the carbon bill alone has been increased by 0.1%. Now I think the government, and the future governments, must realize that it is not always possible to be surprised. It is not the State or the government's role to take the lead in the rise of every year. It will only result in higher inflation and biting in the homes of the country and the families of the country. This has been discussed before. Although it would have been possible to go further over the annual increases compared to the indicator increase, although this has been reduced, increases were still not elected by the government, which we in the Middle Order did not vote for. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u99	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. First, I'm going to refuse the explanation that remunerations found in the alliances we agree to here, income policy, and money, are the explanation. They were generally 2.5% under the inflation, thus reducing it. Hv. A senator sits with me in his head. The budget and we've been on the road to dealing with the situation and getting money into the economy, to work. In this discussion, we often say that it is better to do more than less. It was not long before, and it was a shock and a blow of short duration, and it could be summed up in a way that the entire council was doing business and putting money on investments, productions, innovations. And then we talk a lot here about an automatic swing regulator where the benefits come in fast and the income goes down. But I wondered if there's a line there where you can turn it around and say, "We're doing too much." I think once we start, holding back demand prices will be a very good job.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u100	Mr. President. Economics are not in an envious position. It is designed to take together and set the numberable values of all human behaviors, and it is designed to sort them down by countless methods, and it is arranged to be right. This is usually done by assuming that stability is the most common arrangement, despite the fact that in just the last 20 to 30 years there have been scores of money market failures, big collapses, smaller collapses, etc. It goes so far that you could even claim that unstableness is the only thing that is stable in the economy. In all of this, there is a phenomenon called inflation, which is an estimate of what prices are rising. The highest observed inflation, or at least measured, was 4,19 times 10 to the 16th. There's a number that's so big that I can't even put it in context without trying to change it in some way. It may be easier to think of it as double every 15 hours and 20 minutes. Every 15 hours, the prices doubled. That was in Hungary in July 1946. Iceland has become considerably better at the inflation war, but one of the worst cases in this country was about 84% of inflation. It is in such crazy situations that when inflation is so intense, legalization or some sort of intervention is under way to try to control the situation. The best example of what I've seen was in Brazil, where there was just a new currency to show how stability worked, and then one day the currency was just replaced. In Iceland, there was another way after all mortgages were eaten up by 84% of inflation. Someone came to the conclusion that banks had to be protected, that banks had to be put in a better position, so insurance was invented. Price insurance may not be uncommon between countries or in large companies and the banking system, but it is extremely common in the world to consumers. Necessary loans are pretty much insurmountable. But this is where it was done. I'd like to say that insurance is a ruthless poverty trap that has stuck two generations for at least, even more, in poverty. Price insurance has made it possible that countless people who went to the real estate market even decades ago have nothing to do with their property today. Part of the reason is that in seven years or every seven years, the majority of the loans are reimbursed. But it seems that when you're with a 40-year-old mortgage, the headstone does not reduce anything until after more than seven years, so if it ever occurs, the property will accumulate very slowly. I'm just saying, finally, we're finally talking about it seriously, with a bill from the government, limiting it. About time. Unfortunately, things are not quite as good as I would have liked because we are not canceling the insurance policy as they have been called. We're not preventing insurance on consumer loans. Rather, it's only being restricted in a way that only counts for loans of a particular length, etc., but we're not shutting down the damnation of consumer loans. As a result, I agree with the reason. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson and many others who have spoken here today and for the weekend that we should walk all the way. Rather than completely canceling prices, it is limited and limited in that if you are young enough or poor enough, the government with this bill is well pleased to offer you the opportunity to walk into a poverty trap. That's pretty much the arrangement. But if we were to remove all the exceptions listed in Article 1. The bill, and I'm just like, "Get out of here safely, we're not gonna make that mistake. " That is the change we need to make. It's a really simple message I'm bringing here today. We just need to remove it because not all or almost every risk to consumers and creditors is to be considered. The banks have to share this risk. That's perfectly normal. That is how it works in all other countries. While cover prices are permitted at consumer loans, banks will be able to get away with unsecured growth because of taking part of the risk there. This is not a good idea, and we should stop with these poverty traps. We should stop inviting the danger home. I can see why it came into existence in its own time. This was a reaction to an incredibly unpleasant situation, 84% of inflation, but we know better. After decades of experience, we know that this is a bad arrangement, and we should just remove it completely.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u101	Mr. President. What a joy it has been to share in this informed and well - informed discussion here today! It's a bill. It's a TV. As a matter of fact, the secretary of finance is about a very specific factor that is to stop offering up the so - called poisonous cocktail, which is insurmountable to 40 years of pay. They are the natural world that, although paid and fully paid for 20 years, the head chair has not dropped as much as one dollar. Nothing cuts on him. It would not be a nation that would allow themselves to be offered as an arrangement that has lasted far too long, and of course we should throw it at the dumpsite where it belongs. But because we're talking about this poisonous cocktail, it's worth considering that there are other factors in this system that are poisoned and that the whole body is toxic. Therefore, Mr. President, I'm going to allow myself to raise it, while this arrangement in which the people are to have the same arrangement as selling for e.g. Let's smoke. Cigarettes may be sold, but only if merchants are warned that they are risking their lives and health by partaking of the product. While this is a nation, financial institutions that lend such loans should be obliged to report loans on valuable loans including loans. The following: You take all the risks of changing prices at your loan time. You're in a much weaker position than the lender who has the highest knowledge and you don't. You are becoming responsible for commitments that are not offered to individuals in any country we know, and certainly not in our part of the world. You take responsibility for a specialized phenomenon, a deduction then called in financialist languages, which is a complex financial phenomenon that is out of reach but specialized professionals. You don't know in advance the sum of a single amount of credit in the loan period. - It's supposed to be all in credit and financial institutions to inform businessmen about this. - You're in danger of losing your legs for financial reasons because you're taking this loan. You are in danger of being driven, along with your family, as thousands of Icelandic families can witness after a crash. This should, in fact, be true of every loan, that people are warned of the consequences of such an experience and are so sad. Mr. President. I wish we would have a discussion here about a new arrangement where insurance will be gone and we'll take into account what our neighbors will do, whatever arrangements they have. At times, I have allowed me to witness to the dance group of the specialized apartment loans called on the Danish language of ◯real Creitititututter in Denmark and stand on fire - old marrow. No system is perfect, but the arrangement we've been living with for far too long is just not entitled to it. I want to use this opportunity to thank my fellow members for participating in this most vivid and helpful discussion. Of course, I must celebrate the apparent change of attitude that has occurred among at least ... ofa bunchofPirata'scontinentals. I also rejoice when there is trouble. The representative of the forward party here speaks, let me say, in a way that's different from his own platoon's long spoken. [[The president calls.]] It's a good idea, and I look forward to a discussion of a new system that is open to people.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u102	The President reminds us that the matter is Icelandic.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u103	A respectable president. I recommend here for a bill to correct the change in biomarker laws and collection of health information and medical legislation. The bill is written at the Ministry of Health in order to meet one of the objectives of Congress No. 29/149 on health policies until 2030. The Parliament concluded that databases and biopsies within the health system should be open and accessible to scientists who have obtained permission for scientific research. The objective of the bill is to ensure and explain the access that scientists already have to the available health data and health data collected and produced in scientific research and remain in a collection of health information or a biomarker. Scientific research plays an important role in the development of health care services as part of healthcare professionals education and is the key to creating a desirable healthcare professional environment. For Iceland's health - care systems to meet their highest standards and meet international comparisons, scientific research needs to be properly maintained. To achieve the above goals, the system must also be simple and efficient. A respectable president. The bill suggests changes in biomarker laws and collections of health information in order to ensure equality when providing access to health data established by the scientific authorities for a permanent celebration. However, it is also important to ensure that the informed consent of the participants in scientific research and the potential rights of scientists who lay data in a museum is also suggested in the bill. A change in the provision of search bases is then proposed in medical institutions to make them more accessible to scientists. The change will no longer allow the management of the search base to take a material position on access, as can be understood in the current law. Search bases should be open to scientists in order to investigate the sensitivity of scientific research on health fields. In such cases, a pre-study can be said to be carried out before a personal health study is conducted. In this context, however, it is important to ensure that the role of the management board should be clearly defined as rejecting a request that the board considers to be in response to it involves the ability to obtain personal information. The bill also suggests changes in scientific research laws in the field of health, especially in order to make data available to scientists so that the system that it will become simplified. The change suggests that scientists apply to the Committee of Moral Affairs and that the National Committee continues applications to responsibilities for information when it comes to data research. According to current regulations, a scientist needs to apply both to the National Committee and to responsible authority of data. This suggests that the system will make it easier for a responsible scientific researcher to access health data for scientific purposes. Just as the board of ethics is sending an application today, and the National Committee will send it for review to Pernon Protection, the Committee will send applications to responsible authorities for information and request a review. This system has proved successful in recent years, making it possible for scientists to send only one common application to the Commission and the Federal Protection. A respectable president. The bill was published in a government language and received a total of eight comments that were taken into consideration and made appropriate changes in the bill in accordance with it. The evaluation of the bill's impact on the state funds has been performed and is not expected to affect its legalization on the spending side of the state's budget. A respectable president. I have now explained the fundamental factors of the bill and allow myself to suggest that the bill be after the 1st. Pointed to why. The welfare committee and the 2nd Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u104	Mr. President. I'm asking the highest. Ministers to changes in health science testing laws, whether or not there have been no contact with the Ministry to determine how information can be obtained from people who are involved in scientific research, e.g. If it turns out, when scientists are working with results, that a person is sick, that is something wrong, that is something of life that can still be dealt with. Don't need to establish a law about which career will take place, and how should you let the person know that she is in danger unless someone responds to it? A doctor who senses e.g. the chance that a patient has cancer, if a tumour is found on imaging or something, is mandatory. When it comes to scientific research, the person will know nothing. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if there's not a job going on at the Ministry on this issue, because it's very important, there's a difference between life and death. The nature of the information should not matter. All you need to do is figure out the process to let the person know so that he can live longer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u105	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It really depends on the informed consent whether it can be agreed on, the content of the informed consent when it is granted by the person involved in the scientific study. However, a scientific committee has been considering just the part that took place. A senator is asking, and I find there's good reason for that, such as the dog. A senator mentions, to the point. The welfare committee examined this role in the treatment of the matter. That question is not new. She's been up many times in the past. There is now a legislation in the law on scientific research that it is possible to establish a Regulation on how to report such issues. Such a directive does not exist now, but the authority on the authority of the administration is in place. This bill is not exactly about it as it is. A senator is asking, but it might well be considered, I think, at least. The matter of opinion raised by the senator is covered by a welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u106	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Of course, it is important to have informed consent when a person is involved in research. If scientists are working on a DNA sample that has been collected long ago and something turns out, it is important that the individual be informed. I know there's been a lot of discussions about this, and I'm told, I'm told, that I'm holding particularly the individuals who don't want to know if they have a life - threatening disease that can be fixed, cured, or held down. Of course, there is a disagreement about who will stand again, one who wants to know, or one who doesn't want to know. In some way, the person who does not want to know has already made a decision for the person who wants to know. It's a moral question, I realize that, but it's also the government's right to know all the latest and best information about themselves. That's why I thought it would be easy to figure this out so that everyone would be happy. You may want to consider how this is, for example. Give me organ donors. I think it's a very important matter and a great deal of justice. What if you learn that a person is in danger and is able to save him?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u107	A respectable president. I just agree with that point of view. A senator said that it is urgent to consider and resolve this matter. But this is a very big debate because it has certain basic moral questions, and it rests on a broader foundation than exactly what is discussed here. But I don't feel anything can stop you from having a dog. A welfare committee gave this particular consideration to the subject, since this will come into play in that regard. The scientific committee has indeed been considering this, and it might well be possible to think, on the basis of the debate. A member of the House is calling this article to the question that we would again adopt the Ministry on the Regulation and that these questions will become more and more urgent as scientific research comes forward and as more information and more knowledge becomes evident during research work. I think there's good reason to look into it, and I'll be in touch with what. The welfare committee will determine whether or not we will work together in the Ministry, whether the welfare committee will specifically examine these matters or if we will be able to cooperate with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u108	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalise a change to the social security law. The bill is based on the proposals of a staff appointed in September 2019, but in the work group there were representatives from the Department of Health, Social Affairs, National Health Services, Iceland's Medical Insurance, the Work Programme, and the State's Insurance Office. The Social Security Act states that the law should be revised within two years of its implementation, but the law went into effect on January 1, 2016. Change of the law is required to explain the legal action, the quick support of regulations and to reduce the occurrence of restrictions. Some of the laws are based on old progress, and they have been criticized in recent years. In this context, there is the link that still exists between the accident insurance and the improvement in pensions under social security laws. In 2008, when the Agency was set up. However, an insurance agency is still responsible for paying monthly rent on disability, since accidents have been estimated to be 50 points or greater and death rates. It'd be preferable that Iceland's Medical Insurance would take the tribe away altogether. The bill presents a clear definition of an accident. An ensuing law assumes that by an accident, a sudden external event occurs that causes injury to the body of the loyal one and does not have his will. It is suggested that the explanation be changed to mean an accident to a sudden unexpected event that causes injury to the body of the faithful and does not have the will. Thus, the expression "beneficial " has been changed to" unmarried. " If the bill is approved, the change will result in an immediate injury caused by overexperience of body or poor work position to result in an accident of social security, e.g. when a heavy burden is lifted or pushed. Such accidents have not been considered beneficial on the basis of current laws. It should be noted that although the definition of the accident concept is cleared in the above way, it is still conditional for damage to be attributed to certain and marked events that occur suddenly. This will continue to result in extramortem trauma resulting from long-term or short-term musculoskeletal stress and no isolated incident. At the same time, the accidental illness or trauma that occurs at work or in other circumstances where insurance under the law does not relate to the implementation of a job or conditions that were available. There are some adjustments to the 5th floor. The law on how to manage and from work, so that insurance protection will cover needed travel on a normal route to and from work. The requirements for normal living are thus added to the requirements of valid laws, but in addition, the idea is to put a fuller correction into action, where only on a direct route between home and workplace have been subjected to insurance protection. Thus, accidents on such trips have been withheld. It is suggested that 3mg be added. Section 5. The legal authority to cancel or limit reform rights due to the victim's own charges. It is assumed that the rule will be used in exceptional circumstances when an accident occurs by deliberate or overwhelming failure. These include accidents in which the injured person is affected by alcohol and/or drugs that have an inexplicable impact on the individual's performance. The bill suggests that the law's targets and standards of law will be changed to make it clear that insurance protection under the law also includes improved employment diseases. Furthermore, it is suggested that laws be added to new ones where employment diseases are defined for the first time in the law as diseases caused by work or working conditions. In this way it is emphasized that a causal work relationship is in place. This definition complies with a-joint 2.g. Regulation No. 540/2011 about the notification and registration of employment diseases. This definition is based on, including of the International Work Programme and of the European Commission's definition of professional diseases. Finally it is suggested in the law that all of the measures involved in accident insurance apply to improved employment conditions as appropriate, which is in accordance with current practice. The law contains a law on employment diseases, but it states that it should be strictly decided that certain employment diseases are mandatory. Such a law has never been established, so there has not been a complete explanation of the diseases involved. It is not uncommon to apply for employment benefits to Iceland's health insurance but the changes mentioned will increase knowledge of rights and will increase the number of applications. If the bill becomes a law, the changed legislation will be given the Regulation with a summary of improved employment conditions. It's up to you in 1 1. the bill that damage to permanent physical damage under the law will be exonerated according to damage laws, No. 50/1993. In terms of the accident insurance insurance law, disability improvements in so-called medical disability are improvements. There is no specific explanation for any kind of disability in the law or in the captions involved. However, permanent medical disability is based on medical evaluations evaluating physical and physical impairments of a person's performance, with all being evaluated on the same criteria. In accordance with current law, financial exchanges for permanent medical disability will take into account the amount of biofuel-authority benefits taken into account in Regulation No. 187/2005 you can find an inexplicable formula on the subsidies assessment for lasting medical disability. Based on the above, it is suggested that instead of aiming for permanent medical disability and paying compensation according to the rules of the Regulation on the monopolity of disability, the decision to improve permanent damage due to improved accidents should be made in accordance with the damage laws. In general, long-term failures based on damage laws are higher than medical disability improvements under the social security laws and therefore legal reforms. Thus, there would be clear, well - known algorithms of damage laws, as well as the name of the expeditor, suggest that there would be improvements in physical damage without regard for financial damage. The evaluation of permanent and permanent medical disability is otherwise similar to that of the change being unlikely to cause problems. In accordance with local laws, a large part of the improvement in insurance insurance insurance is paid monthly, i.e. improvements for medical disability assessed at 50 points or above and of mortality. These monthly payments are paid by an insurance agency, as is Article 3. The law. This is an arrangement that is rooted in the use of accident insurance for the sake of a social security agency or for 2008. As these monthly payments are, in some respects comparable to pension pay on the basis of social insurance laws and were paid from the same system of payment, a decision was made to maintain an arrangement that the insurance agency paid them out after Iceland's health insurance was put in place and accepted the category. This arrangement, however, is not to be taken lightly as it causes needless complications in keeping records between the two agencies that hear each other under their own department. The bill suggests that any legal compensation will be the monopoly paid by Iceland's Medical Insurance. As a result of reimbursement of damages, there are always monosidies, but also measures that the improvement of social security may be in the form of monthly pensions in the past when serious accidents were more frequent, but great success has been achieved in reducing the number of accidents. The change brings improvements in accident insurance, close to insurance insurance companies 'cause of damage to your body and allows Iceland's health insurance to end benefits that the Agency has for the treatment. This adjustment is suggested as a temporary measure in which those who receive monthly eulogy after the death of a mate will be paid as monotherapy. It is suggested that the law does not include a parent's death. A similar right can be drawn from the death of a parent to the government's insurance agency, regardless of whether an accident caused death or not. Furthermore, those who have gained the right to monthly pensions because of permanent damages, now permanent medical disability, may request to have their disability made up in the form of a remuneration and thus complete payment for the accident from Iceland's Medical Insurance. The presented change is a factor in separating the benefits insurance insurance from Iceland's health insurance benefits from social insurance from a social security agency and is therefore to simplify the improvement system. A respectable president. Finally, it is to be noted that except for the changes in the requirements of fire, it is suggested that damage should be made in accordance with the accident insurance laws to the social security laws be terminated. In this way, there is a limit to the failure of the two law groups to make improvements. This means that microenergy evaluation as well as therapy evaluations at the State Insurance Institute were not thwarted by an individual's right to assess permanent failures, now permanent medical disability, due to an accidental improvement. Also, microenergy evaluations, rehabilitation evaluations, or pensions from a insurance institution would not prevent the right to the full cost of accidents, in contrast with what is now the case. The change would also include a miscalculation due to an accident, now an assessment of permanent medical disability, not affecting the proportion of micro-energy pensions under the current social security law at the State Department. The reduction in the proportion of disability pensions is based on an old project that was more appropriate in the case of one and the same legal code, as well as when the same agency was responsible for the payment of the funds. The rule was passed on to law at a more common time but now that an accident resulted in severe physical injury or even death, but as noted earlier, serious accidents that have suffered a significant loss in recent years have been reported. It may be questioned if a person has to endure a disability reduction because of health problems that are not related at all to an accident previously paid by the law to the person. This is a different set of rights based on a different basis, and it is suggested that the right of disability reform under the social security laws does not affect the rights of disability, according to the social security laws and vice versa. In this regard, it may be noted that damages to the damage caused by an accident from insurance companies do not affect the decline in pensions under social insurance law or by the social security laws. It is also suggested that disability reforms due to accidents will no longer impair accidents or medical spending under the health insurance laws due to subsequent accidents or illness. In accordance with current law, both types of day money are reduced by subsequent incidents if an individual has ever been paid solely for an accident, and there is a reasonable basis for that relationship to be canceled. The number of cases is relatively low each year, and the extra cost is low. A respectable president. I have now explained the main subject of the bill being discussed and allow me to suggest at the end of the 1st. Pointed to why. The welfare committee and to the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u109	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. I just want to come in on the 5th floor. the bill that deals with employment diseases and defined them. It says: ▪ Work disorder refers to a condition caused by work or working conditions. [...] The secretary of the Regulation shall discuss in more detail the benefits of employment diseases. As shown in the case of the highest. A minister will be made an overview of improved employment diseases, and this is of good quality. In this context, reference is made to a European directive and to a list of job diseases mentioned in the work programme on the work board. I wanted to ask the highest. Minister on how this list will be made. This is, naturally, an important point. Is there a complete list, or is this guide taken into account and follow the information published on the worksheet website? I know now, for example. for a profession that has fought for the acceptance of certain types of cancer as a professional disease, and for firefighters. I'm going to review it in my speech below, just to draw attention to the subject. There are a number of studies that have been conducted on the incidence of cancer among firemen and all of these indicate that there is an association between firemen's work and an increased incidence of cancer. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But before I get to it, I ask, "Can I get to the top? " A minister reviews this list, how does she picture it?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u110	A respectable president. As it should be, this work will be carried out after the preparation of the bill by Generalis so that the guidance of Generalis is available on such a list. Of course, it has been repeated criticism that employment diseases have not been imposed by a Regulation, but the bill obligates the Minister to do so. First of all, I can see that this kind of regulation would be put into practice. I think that's very important, and especially because the tip that comes out of the question. The senator is correct, it is difficult to see that a list of such diseases would become exhaustive, for it came to form in the subheading of the Quantum Community at its time for thought. The need for such guidance is emphasized, and at least we need it. To know, there must be a very clear way of finding out what aspects of insurance are involved. Of course, it is rare now that there is a need for compensation for employment health insurance, but with a change in the law, we both want to clear up the insurance protection of these laws when it comes to increasing jobs. The purpose of the law is not only to explain these sources but also to provide better foundations but also to improve legal security so that we are speaking even more clearly. But I'm making clear in my reply what I said earlier that it is very important to work this way so that it meets with government consultations and hear of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u111	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for a clear answer on this issue. It is of utmost importance that a minister of the regulations take place in the matter of consultation. Then working class members, such as firemen, whom I specifically mentioned here, can present their views. They feel that they are important in this list of cancers, but as I mentioned earlier, many studies indicate that they are highly exposed to certain types of cancer because of the nature of the job. A burning process, as we know, results in an enormous amount of carcinogenic material. This has been confirmed by the World Health Organization (WHO), as well as by the World Cancer Institute, its institutions. Although most of these research is being done abroad, it can be applied to Icelandic firefighters, and they work in the same situation as firefighters from abroad. I just wanted to make this decision, but I'll get it through in my speech. I'm glad there's a legal remedy here, definitely. I'm celebrating the bill, hoping it's going to get good publicity. Above all, it is the enigma, which has proved its value quite well in various matters when it comes to the legal process. Especially do I rejoice that this matter will be reviewed when it comes to a list of improved employment diseases.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u112	Mr. President. I'm celebrating this bill. This is an important legal hearing, and especially when it comes to professional diseases, as mentioned earlier, in response to the Supreme Court. Secretary of health. I aim in my speech to support the need for cancer, which many firefighters have sadly faced, in fact, become defined as a job disease that should be an overview of the improved employment diseases that will be involved in these laws. The incidence of cancer among firemen has increased in recent years, and one of the reasons is that in today's countries all other materials have been burned. 40 years ago, insides were made of wood and wool and straw, and so on, but most of what we have today in our homes is made of plastic materials and when they are burned, a large amount of fuel and poison is released. Erivedge studies have included: demonstrated that plastic materials have been found in the urine of firemen. In Iceland firemen have found this on their own in a literal sense. Most people who stop working as firemen today are more than 60 years old. Amazingly many of these suffer from cancer and heart disease, and almost everyone has some sort of musculoskeletal problem. The vast majority of them have been physically fit for the rest of their life. In the North, firefighters have put legal cases in order to achieve improvement and recognition of professional disease. According to the nature of the matter, firefighters usually have no idea what material is burning in house - to - house burns or in ships, or what the consequences will be for their health. We know that firemen have the responsibility to save people and risk them. The firefighter's work is one of the most difficult jobs that can be done, and there is great danger, and the danger is that they are exposed to serious employment problems, as mentioned earlier. Indeed, going into a burning house is dangerous, and it has additional pitfalls that most people do not know about. Fortunately, no firefighter has died in Iceland's line of duty. However, there is another factor that the public does not know about and is even more dangerous, which is the so - called smoke dive. There has been a great awakening among firefighters worldwide because of the fact that many firemen have died of cancer and that many firefighters are not excluded. Research shows that firemen are up to twice as likely to develop certain types of cancer and that cancer of firemen grows much faster than others do. Immediately after five years of work, the chances of cancer among firemen have increased dramatically. Many studies have been carried out in this regard, and the result remains the same. In California, U.S.A., legislation was given in 1984 to assist firefighters who were diagnosed with cancer and today have similar legislation in place in all U.S. countries. This law includes the definition of cancer as a professional disease of certain conditions. In 2002, Canada adopted a law similar to that of Australians in 2012. Although the fires that surfaced today are as serious as they were 50 to 60 years ago, the fact is that they contain much more of the chemicals that cause cancer. The World Health Organization and the World Health Organization have done research to show that burning is produced in smoke by an enormous quantity of carcinogenic material. Many studies have investigated the incidence of cancer among firemen and all suggest that there is an association between firemen's staff and an increased incidence of cancer. Although most research is carried out abroad, it can be applied to Icelandic firemen, who work in the same situation as firefighters from abroad. That's exactly what makes the work more dangerous than many suspect. It is only possible for firemen to protect themselves from recording these materials to a very small extent. The use of plastics, e.g. in furniture and household equipment, it is not easy to reduce in the coming decades, and only in China, where most of the world's production takes place, there will be dozens of new plastics each month, and it is difficult to keep track of the products used for the production of plastic products. Despite much fire - fire management and better equipment, the firemen never have a chance to protect themselves completely from the cancerous chemicals found in the smokes generated by burns. To protect themselves from heat, however, they must wear protective clothing, and these clothing need to be able to breathe in to remove moisture, resulting in a clear spread of the carcinogenic material, which takes most of the material into the skin. It is important to establish a work cycle with annual medical examinations by firemen, which makes it more likely that their cancer will be diagnosed early. It is important to have certain cancers among firemen recognized as a job disease with certain conditions. In Canada, the United States, and Australia, there are 15 types of cancer that fall into the category of professional illness with firemen; these first come in after about Five years of work, and more are added as firemen's age grows. Mr. President. It is natural for firefighters to look to the many tests that support their cause and to work to make sure that firemen will not be as exposed to cancer as they are. Firefighters in Iceland are relatively small, and although the incidence of cancer among firefighters is with the highest known among professions, the cost of growth should not be a great deal of cancer, defined as a professional disease of firefighters. In the United States, Canada, and Australia, over 99% of all firefighters are committed to professional cancer. I'd like to finally say, Mr. President, it's a long time for a disease such as cancer to be recognized as a professional disease of firefighters. I certainly hope that in the work ahead will be taken into account, and firemen will promote their views, and they will agree that cancer will be put on the list that will be a summary of professional diseases as outlined in the bill, that cancer among firemen will fall below.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u113	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct a policy on health insurance law. The bill suggests changes in terms of protection of insurance in certain clinical trials. By means of a medical conference approved at the General Assembly in June 2019, a vision of the future has been developed for Icelandic health care until 2030. The policy shows that scientific research in health field should provide a strong support to the health system and meets international comparisons in quality and extent. There is a policy in scientific research in the field of health until 2030 where it says that it is important to provide well for scientific research in health field to meet the highest quality standards and to be able to cope with other countries. It is aimed that by the year 2030 there will be an even better facilities and infrastructure for clinical scientific studies in the national health institutions, although scientific studies in the medical field will lead to loss of quality of the service, improve the ability of healthcare professionals, and the development of the whole service. National Hospital as a university hospital and Akureyri Hospital as a teaching hospital play a vital role in obtaining new knowledge in health science, but one of their legal roles is to pursue scientific research in the field of health, including clinical drug research. In the Regulation for clinical pharmacology studies it is required that participants in such studies are guaranteed for the potential harm that may be caused by these activities. Most of these studies provide sponsors with financial resources to secure participants and investigators submit insurance cards, thus confirming to the Scientific Committee responsible for granting permission for scientific research in this country. However, the land hospital and the Akureyri Hospital have the authority to conduct research on their own initiatives and without the introduction of external receivers, i.e. sponsors. Their patients enjoy insurance protection through central health insurance at Iceland's Medical Insurance. However, it is clearly stated in the current law that their insurance protection does not cover damage due to the properties of medicinal product used in testing or in the treatment of disease. In accordance with current legislation, participants in clinical pharmacology studies conducted in medical institutions are not adequately secure. This has caused the International Hospital and the Akureyri Hospital to have difficulty applying for and obtain permission for clinical pharmacology studies by the Scientific Committee and thus performing its legal function. A respectable president. The recommended bill suggests that insurance protection of the patient insurance policy should be extended in a way that covers protection in clinical pharmacology studies where investigators do not have a sponsor. This is done with the aim of ensuring the protection of citizens from damages due to the properties of medicinal products used in the requested investigation. Furthermore, a controversial change is proposed with the aim of making investigators in medical institutions who do not have much easier to apply for and receive the permission of the Scientific Committee for clinical pharmacology studies and thereby simplify the application procedure, as defined in the scientific policy to 2030. A powerful scientific work is one of the most important foundations of each university and teaching hospital, and it is important that all the grounds exist so that the National Hospital and the Akureyri Hospital can perform this legal role without problems. A respectable president. I have now explained the main subject of the bill being discussed and allow me to suggest at the end of the 1st. Refer to the welfare committee and to the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u114	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a bill for a change in rural government law. These are the first bill proposed to achieve the objective of the synopsis of a policy-making scheme in rural affairs by 2019-2333 and the implementation plan for the 2018◯223 adopted by the General Assembly on January 29th of World War II. It is appropriate to review some of the important aspects of the synonym, the first of its species here on the land. Consuming was successfully received, including Here at councils, due to extensive consultations and cooperation with those with relevant issues. held a national conference, it was discussed during a special international convention of the European Union and as the subject of the resolution was published twice in government consultations. A future vision of a community business plan is, by permission of a president: ... that Iceland will be the front row of solid and safe infrastructure, large rural areas, valuables and progressive services. A technical link between Iceland and the outside world in balance with the environment. Then further says of her main objective: The most important objective of a strategy in the management of rural society is to draw together key elements of the long-term national policy barriers in the areas involved in the activities of rural society and contribute to harmony in the State and rural policies in these areas with the overall interest of the rural management level being guided. At the same time, a guide will be provided in the affairs of the unit management level, with its growth and self-sustaining towards its objective. The Conspiracy proposal was presented here at the General Assembly of the Last winter, providing January 29, 2000, over a year ago. A review of a greater part of the transport and environment committee, which had the proposal for treatment, stated that her guests had generally declared satisfaction with the development of a judicial hearing and the measures made there. It was the joint conclusion of those who worked on the proposal that in order to achieve the aim of promoting the local government level and making the rural communities even more sustainable services and management units needed to increase and reduce their numbers. There are many reasons, and I think it's right to mention a few. 1st It's a powerful board of directors. Extensive demands have been made for rural administration over the past few decades, and it is clear that small rural communities have less ability to meet such demands. Too many rural areas also find it difficult to maintain adequate control of the administration of all rural society, and the result is that citizens cannot trust that local governments will meet their legal obligations or that they can be sufficiently careful in their activities. 2. Self-sustaining. The aim of the Council resolution is to increase the sustainable development of rural society and ensure their ability to carry out legal tasks. There may be differences of opinion as to what constitutes a financial sustainable rural society or how much of rural income can come from a common fund to become self-involved. However, most people will have to put a question mark on sustainable rural society that rely on the contribution made by rural funds in order to maintain minimum services. 3. -Advisability. A decrease in the number of rural partners may result in significant economy, including The money that goes to the top of a unit's building. The Department of Transport and the Ministry of Transport had the bill's economic effect analysed and concluded that by enlargement and development of rural communities, economics could be followed up to 5 billion a year which could be used to further and improve the services of citizens and then to rely on all infrastructure. As a result, financial benefits will benefit the inhabitants of the rural community who enter unity in the years to come. 4. Better work environments for elected agents and local employees. They need to promote and enhance the diversity of the municipal administration; this is the result of increasing projects and creating new employment opportunities and supporting the work of an elected representative. It is undisputed that larger administrative modules have a greater potential for promoting their human resources and securing the remuneration of elected representatives. 5. Democracy. The increased demands for rural administration have resulted in the failure of many smaller rural communities to extend their power to many legal projects for neighboring society, to larger rural communities. In such cases, decisions are made by elected representatives to other parties who do not have a democratic mandate behind them. The key point, however, is this: Farmers are being run for public money. It is the obligation of the Generals and other governments to ensure that the whole level of government is run by democratic, economic, and efficient means. All rural areas must have the power to perform a legal infrastructure, which at the same time consistently guarantees the right of all citizens of the country to the services performed by rural society. As I've done here in a few cases, you can do better. Much better. And that's what everyone agrees with. It has been my mission in the government to prepare their implementation and induction. We have already undergone the operation to achieve financial support for rural cohesion in terms of a total of about 10◯12 billion dollars. such support may arise in the next few years. The Kingdom has added 100 million dollars. In support of digital development in the rural phase, the cooperation between the state and rural society in this sector is now in good shape. Then we've come to an agreement with our rural society on how we're going to get a full reexamination of municipal income stocks and the regular work of an equation, which will start in the next few weeks. Other measures also take place in preparation and are being followed in an organized manner. The most controversial action in the Senate, as well as the most effective, to achieve the benefits mentioned above, is the first, i.e. The first part of the synonym. It confirmed the will of the Generals, the Government as well as the majority of Iceland's local government members on legalization of the minimum number of citizens in the rural government laws again. My Ministry has closely cooperated with the European Union's partner conscientiously in implementing the procedure in the bill form, which is now a topic for discussion here at the Great General Assembly. In effect, the subject of this bill turns toward a uniting community in various ways. Changes in rural legislation have been proposed to encourage the free uniting of rural society, to reduce the interconnections, and to strengthen development and innovation in the management of rural society. For example, the bill suggests: a. to improve the privileges of Ministers to provide local communities with the opportunity to experiment with a strategy other than the law of government, b. to expand community records to maintain telecommunications, c. At the same time, it is suggested that rural communities should be developed and follow a course in the service level they intend to maintain in the inhabited areas outside the largest core. The main focus of the bill, however, is to legalize a new set of provisions in the rural government laws that require that rural communities have a minimum of 1,000 inhabitants. The rule means that the population of rural society should again be taken to a minimum and that the government should take the initiative to initiate the integration of rural society that does not reach such an population minimum, with another or other rural areas. Is it not this way that the main point of rural law is that the free uniting community members are always the first option when it comes to the enlargement of rural society. If the population of rural society has been under the minimum population of three years in a row, and rural government has not begun to prepare that the community's union with other rural groups should take the initiative in making such preparations and decide how to cooperate. A minister should take full consideration of the community's wishes on how the harmony should be performed and for which it should be performed. expected to be an election within a rural society for more than one unit of unity. Also, in the bill, it is beginning to give rural society considerable space to adjust to the minimum population level. The minister should not take the initiative of a unit with fewer than 250 inhabitants until two years after the 2022 district election, and should not take the initiative for a team of members with fewer than 1,000 inhabitants until two years after the 2026 district elections. In addition, it is suggested that a minister can provide temporary exception from the minimum population for up to four years if specific reasons clearly indicate that a community can develop a administrative unit with adjacent rural communities. This process has taken into account the various viewpoints observed in the case of members of the Parliament and the majority of the environmental and transport committees at the time of the interpretation for treatment. V.E.G. President. It's important. Uniting your partner is a major heat issue. Yet, no one who knows that it is extremely important to the level of government and to communities, to the population, throughout the country, that their communities are bigger and stronger. There is also no one I have met and talked to who disagrees because the level of government needs to be strengthened and that this will be done most together. What people have best opposed is that they are done by a minimum number being bound to law. People have said that they should be more positive for communities that unite, just as we are making support from an equation fund. There are others who have a different view of the situation and who want to see that the balance fund is used to starve rural communities into unions. Then there are the third ones who want to stop thinking about business with their communities, and they simply create third administrative level to the north, assigning them to run elementary schools and care for the affairs of disabled people and other factors now responsible for the community. With this in mind, from the moment I took over, I have been working on the case with emphasis on broad solidarity on ways to promote the level of government. The criteria for system-change of this type are general agreement and solidarity. The overwhelming support of the secondary body of the Union and then of the Generalis, in an proposal for a hearing on these matters, was convincing. So it was a measure of disappointment when it became evident at the national convention of the Union in December. to support this aspect of policy development is less than previously identified in its second national Parliament in September 2019. The support is not as decisive as it once was, although the majority of the council members certainly agreed to continue supporting the situation. Well, here's the deal. Allied and for a decision there. The bill is, in effect, in accordance with the synonym, and the views on the matter have also been taken into account. Environmental and transport committees for the right time to adapt to the target areas. So I'm open to media discussions if it could lead to a greater solidarity on this important improvement project, some say it's the biggest reform project in a government administration for a very long time. It could, for example. includes looking for ways to achieve the aims of increasing sustainable rural society by specifying rural society from certain fundamental factors that must be available to be considered as a rural society; to operate elementary schools, having a T-minus to provide disabled persons with legal services, etc. Such definitions could lead to a change in our attitude toward the detailed criteria set out in the bill. First and foremost, Mr. President, we must not give up on this assignment, even if it is controversial, we all agree with our goals, and it has been repeated in my conversations with members of different rural areas. The aim is to promote the government level in Iceland for the benefit of their citizens and the entire population. Mr. President. Last winter, I attended an open meeting at Grenivík for a Congress resolution on the growth of rural government, with a emphasis on the published legislation on the minimum population. There were warm feelings at this meeting, as is often true in discussions about community unity. And I understand the hot feelings. I am myself a resident of a small community, and I used to be the oddest member of the same community for a few years. My opinion then was that the interests of the Sunainer Stripes were better guaranteed by being a part of a bigger community. My study is still that the world's interests are more secure by the fact that their communities are a larger administrative entity and therefore are stronger. The point is, in my mind, that larger societies are better equipped to meet the growing demand for services in the areas of rural society. It is in my mind that the settlements of this country have a stronger voice, especially in their dealings with the State. We're all part of our communities, and all the ones sitting here are active participants in them. They vary in size and degrees in definition. I've tried to hang in the Frenches of the French Frenches in a conflict of demand. I am Mr. Sunaman and the betrotheds of Sunaman, even though the administrative entity, the country society, joined neighboring communities. In other words, I'm not a administrative entity, and I think if anyone ever thought of himself as a administrative entity, they would have declined as the years have passed. Keflavík is still racing Njardík in basketball. But I understand my feelings, so I stress a broad solid solidarity over the steps we take on this vital journey, both among the government and at the great General Assembly. It is important to present the people of rural society and their ideas of the services they want to perform to them by the local community. Work on such analysis will begin in my Ministry shortly, and the council will be informed of the work and its results. The objective is clear: to strengthen and strengthen the level of rural government so that it can better meet the needs of the inhabitants for the service of the rural community. All agree with the objective. Our task, as assigned to the council, is to find the way to that end. I have now considered making this bill and the need to promote rural areas in the country and provide the people with the best service, wherever they live. I suggest that the bill be following this discussion. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u115	President. I'm very into self-sustaining and self-management. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on local self-control. At least I find it very clear that if I go through the European Convention on the Self-County Management Act, which we adopted in 1991, and the Community and the Constitution laws, it is impossible to unindicate rural society unless it is elected by the people, according to Icelandic law. According to this bill, if it becomes legal, the minister can say, "Now all the deadlines are done, you are united." If the inhabitants call to local elections under local government law and say no, the minister in his front address says that a minister should consider the population, despite the fact that the report also says that the treaty does not assume that the government of his Member States is obliged to take into account the wishes of rural society in their relationship with other rural communities. There's a certain discrepancy between here and I point to the fundamental point that if we're going to remain in the company's self-administration and if it's to translate something, the minister of another administration cannot take legal action from the equation at a different administrative level under Icelandic administrative law. It simply goes against the subject of self - control.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u116	Mr. President. If I understand the question correctly, then why? A senator to argue that this is not in harmony with the European Convention on Community Self - Control. That's wrong. That's the wrong statement. Senator. It was particularly examined when Danir made such a trip back then, and that led to the conclusion at the time, I think it was in 2005, that there were a number of rural communities united by the legislation of the legislature without any special election there, and even without being looked forward to as the local community's wishes for cohesion, which we do not expect here. It was the conclusion of the report by the European Parliament's Subcommittee that although a joint agreement was assumed to be made, the legislatorship would not be obliged to address the views and wishes of the Council of Europe, nor were they considered to be contrary to the Denmark Constitution, which is, in view of this. A senator, quite like that. That's why this doesn't go against the Icelandic constitution, because here in the Generals we can make laws. I'd like to add, just for information, that the European Commission has recommended further cooperation in this country to strengthen the level of government. So the senator's claim is simply wrong. We have many examples of this to be in harmony with the covenant, this project, and other European examples.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u117	President. In many other European countries there is not a law on population elections, as we do in rural law, where citizens can take their own initiative in calling for an election on their own issues. If the people take their own initiative, according to local government laws: we don't want the team together, we want to vote for it, and the vote goes on to say no, then we're in a lot of trouble if we're to look to the self-control concept. Yes, rural society is in control of its own affairs according to law, certainly. But the inhabitants of rural society can also call for an election on their issues and say no. What? There is one law to be carried out, and a democratic conclusion is being passed under local law, while it is illegal under other laws. There's the problem I see. If we are to look to the concept of democracy and self - control, I find it very obvious which side is the problem. He's about to limit the number of rural communities. So I don't entirely agree that it is accurate to say that the European Treaty guarantees that population votes are not needed. I agree that he doesn't do that. But we have a point in Icelandic law that creates the problem that this may conflict, the results may conflict, the law may conflict. Then we are not in that situation, as the European Convention wishes, that such a lawyer can consult courts to decide which is right.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u118	A respectable president. Let us remember that in this instance, there is still the need to do so. The senator's name is for the bill, so we've passed a minimum number of songs on the population. On that basis, such unity has taken place without elections, without national elections. [[Up front.]] Yeah, that's the way it is. But what I stressed in my case was, of course, that we are primarily encouraging free unity. We are developing a very strong financial motivation for doing so. We are pointing out how many factors are that simply call for larger rural areas, more powerful administrative units. We put these financial incentives in place, and then we say that after a considerable amount of time, there is a chance that people can approach this together freely, and that is what we want. That's what we stress. What has been controversial is whether to restore a minimum population number. It existed until 2011, it's only for a few years that we haven't had it. That is what the Parliament needs to deal with and see if there are other compromises. The whales are strong enough, the economic analysis that we presented in history says it is up to 5 billion benefits, potential benefits per year, and currently recalculated infinitely by 3.5% interest, the benefits 134 billion. Then I ask the group where there has been a 30% reduction in the number of the last 25 years: Can you and the inhabitants of these areas be free of the possibility of applying this management to improve your ministry? It's the motivation. Then the question is, How far are we going to go in that rule? And now it's up to the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u119	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for measuring for this counter-regulated bill. I just want to swerve one or two things. Ministers overlooked the fact that harmony is the norm. It's emotional. There is the possibility that opposition to community unity is genetic, or that you will pass on from one to another throughout generations. That may be normal. People in small communities are very connected with their environment, and they may feel that change and harmony are not of good hostility and caution to their neighbors. I allow me to ask a minister what it is particularly that motivates the government to bring about this matter now and that it is time to promote unity. I am aware of the details he mentioned, but during the past hundred years, rural society has been shrinking immensely. The reduction since 1910 has been 64%, more than 200 were likely 72. What contributes to this now? Then I ask: What evidence was given in 2011 when the minimum number of inhabitants disappeared from the law?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u120	Mr. President. What can be added to the list I had here - about practicality, sustainableity, strong society, democracies, the obvious benefits of larger administrative modules, the ability to accept tasks and to add people and others. - Maybe it's the time line. It's been in the discussion for quite a while. Since 2006 very little has occurred together until the Mulla Council was formed during the summer, and last year Sandedi and Garth and Breindal were united in the Far East. In contrast, there has been a very small movement in this direction and, frankly, it has been best to say a surprising little debate because this is a persistent matter. Then, in line with the last district convention of rural society, beginning at the beginning of each terms. Then it suddenly seems that there is a much stronger sound for doing this on a larger scale. We're off with the Senate resolution, and there's a lot more harmony, both with the local government and with the members of the Council, in politics, and on national level; it's creating a spirit for this. That is why we will begin this project with the entire 11 teams of the Congress resolution to promote the unit's level in taking this step. Of course, what has happened since then is the case with Covid, and society must be quite strong to cope with it. Many of those memories obviously find this difficult, simply failing a table for a carrying, having less stroke force. [[The president calls.]] I can't argue as to why the population target was issued in 2011. I suppose it was so, it would be pointless.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u121	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. There are feelings in this matter, they are strong opinions, they become heated at home. All of this involves our valuation and understanding. I'd like to ask a minister about two points on the bill. It says that a minister is authorized to give temporary leave to a rural partner up to four years of minimum population size if specific circumstances exist. I'd like to ask about this special situation, which one is in accordance with the assessment. Then I'd like to ask the Minister a little bit about self-sustaining. The concept of self-sustaining has been a matter of experience. The United Nations is supported by a term that is now widely accepted and used in international context. What's the definition of sustainable rural society in this context? Is it based on the scope of support for the County Fund or what?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u122	Mr. President. In fact, I think we can only claim that there is no sign of subjugated or patted in stone what this definition of sustainable society is exactly. That's what I said here. That's even. issued to target a thousand inhabitants. Many people say, " It's too small. ' Why a thousand? How did you find this figure? And they say: Is it not wiser to look for a way to define what is sustainable? To me, a sustainable rural society with its own mechanical power, so to speak, is largely the income of its own; can represent all minimal database services without having to consult other rural partners. Where, though, is the precise limit, I dare not assert it. On the other hand, we can tell the extreme between a rural society that does not become a legal service, is clearly in the larger area of the disabled, is under the control of another community for child protection, has its basic school, and even the nursery, which is, in fact, not legal service as it sounds, in another country society, and all sports and youth, etc. Clearly, it is not sustainable if all of these matters were to be taken into the local community and the local community by no means independent, and that would include the majority of their incomes from an equation fund. But where is the precise limit available? Is it a third of an equation fund, or 40%? Or 20%? I won't say exactly. But that's one of the things we could try to access at this job if we want to find the media, if we want to do what I was talking about in my speech, do what we politicians have to do, listen and try to find a way to get a broader reconciliation behind the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u123	A respectable president. The objective of this bill is fine. Whether the magic number 1,000 will create a sustainable rural society will probably depend on the local situation. I have nothing to do with your bill's aim, but as I came in against a minister, here's a secretary's authority to unite rural communities, no matter what. When all deadlines are completed and all the same, a minister can simply point out certain rural communities and say that they are united. There I draw at least a line, for if we are to respect the self-management and democracy of the Constitution, the evidence has simply run out. If that's right, as high as possible. According to a minister, the motivation and efficiency behind unity are as strong as the claim is, it should be enough. There should not be a requirement for unity. We must not forget one thing; it is people's right not to have things as practical as possible. There are a number of factors that will affect practicality if we go out in terms of prosperity, e.g. The goal of government prosperity. There are more things that promote prosperity and good society than there are only money left for projects. There are a number of factors in society that are not measurable with money figures that affect the success of each community. As a result, I don't think we should have this minister in place because if you put it under pressure, the result will simply never be good. It has been tried to pass through every free unit according to the law we have. The willingness to do so has been that it will not work, for all the reasons that have been presented in that process. It is a democratic conclusion that a minister should not pass, but enter and deal with the problems presented there, understand why that harmony should not occur, or why it is opposed to it, why people do not want to be united. There may be some very serious reasons for this. After all, when all deadlines are complete, the Minister needs to take the initiative in the union and unite a group, no matter what evidence is there because the minimum number of laws are being violated. But I believe it is simply a violation of the values that we have in the law of rural society and their self-administration, of democracy that we have under the constitution, if a minister has the authority to force unity. I believe that the laws that have been referred to here earlier, about the minimum number of rural population, had the same flaw. Such unity, if made without a vote, and there is really no one to do anything about it, has not been a good uniting thing. Perhaps they have proved to be good. All right. The view is, of course, that people's expectations for unity were not correct and that the outcome of the election was not based on what actually happened when people had to make decisions together and did them well. This does not change the fact that there are arguments that should be presented in a discussion of the free unit of rural society to be based on democratic data. This is definitely a problem. We are trapped in this situation, and the only way to deal with it, toward what might be better, is to do it through conversation, by motivation, rather than by pressure. Forces inevitably produce a specific anchor that takes time to process. It may fade over time, and quickly because the harmony is really a good idea to be seen when it finally comes to its existence. Then we need to work much more on how we can let that happen, e.g. by having a specific virtual unit to see how it works. The fact that two or more societies are not really united but work as if they were united - perhaps it is a practical estimate, just to try. All is better than the forcedness, for with it we are definitely violating terms of self - control and democracy.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u124	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The secretary of transportation and unit for his input and measuring this bill. I spoke up when we discussed the synonym proposal on which the bill is based, and there was much going on and how this has been. As mentioned above, the community unity is a very delicate matter. I have felt this way, and I still feel that there should be no legal action, and I was aware of the situation, even though I submitted to the object of the Senate resolution that was adopted last year. Then we're still working with this bill. I want to start by saying that that's basically the minimum population I don't like. I'm happy with 2. g., for example, the source of telecommunications information on local governments and committees meetings. We've gone into that world faster, as most of us know through Covid. Even if you suggest that telecommunication equipment is primarily used when it cannot be found, how vital it is that you have access to telecommunications in your hand! But if over a large geographic area is going, as it is in the new Mulla Council, it is likely that it is welcome to meet in this way. I like what happened there, the conversation of the people, the way they're doing this and, of course, try it, it's two years in this process. They work with their implementation in the perimeters with real world governments that have power, control things, and are not like home governments we've known up to this, which have very little to say. In many areas, unfortunately, the perimeters have not come out well enough, and they don't even need perimeters to do so. I've always felt much more important, because I think our community policy is that we want to try to stay in the country, to support and support these rural communities, as is said of local policy, regardless of whether they belong to a larger community or less. I've come to realize that they're not necessarily trying well. Of course, there are many factors involved. It's not necessarily that they're in larger rural areas or beyond them because we have small communities that don't want to unite because they have good farms and have no idea how to share them. Even so, they still attend various services in a larger area. Perhaps it is what a minister was a bit interested in talking about, strengthening the ministry. Those who are proselytized by legal alliances have been talking about the fact that much greater and better service can be achieved. But I believe that with the greater distance between the population and the administrations, there is also a particular risk that money does not necessarily go where residents in smaller places or borders would like it to go. Indeed, there are many rural communities that have united in an exemplary union but that is not just a link between size and efficiency or the services being performed. The minister was here reviewing the logic support for the 1000-man target. There was no particular evidence to support this in the unit management report and, as a minister introduced, some felt that there should be more, this would be too small. That's one of the things I think it's interesting, tiny rural areas may have to be joined twice in a very short time, and if they don't, a minister needs to intervene and address it. I agree with what. A senator who spoke before me for that, it's never good if there's been some way to go and they're not going to go to some kind of legal force. It's not good for these little places, and it's not for their advantage. So you wonder if there are about 5% of the people in this position, what an amazing effect it would have to do with them, even over large areas. Indeed, it is spoken of as looking to a geographic location and looking at it and all of this. Then we may even be creating some difference between rural society if some have a geographic status and they don't have to unite while others have to. I don't think we need the people's minimum to ensure good service. It is and will continue to be negotiated between rural society for all kinds of services, firefighters, social services, child protection, and even considered good because many of these close - up services are fine if they are not too close to people in difficult situations. First and foremost, it always points to a job and, as the minister said, that basic services can be performed. Who's she supposed to be? We are not yet totally down to the conclusion, the minimum base service. We often talk about health care, education, and such things, but we have not really agreed on them. I know that work has been done. However, it should also be noted that what will be used in an appropriate way. We've talked about indiscriminateities when we've considered design in the health system of the scattered areas. Despite the tremendous growth we have made during this period, we still live that doctors are not available to operate in scattered regions. They do not rely on even one responsibility, finding it difficult and complicated. There are a lot of things that could be done, and it doesn't necessarily have to be that way. Like what? A senator knows, because he mentioned his place of origin, we hear when we talk primarily about unity in the bill, and I think it may be a barrier to the fact that many other good things are being done. Many unitys have succeeded and others have not. Larger rural communities tend to complain that they are paying in various services, but they need to look to the fact that they are not paying enough for it or what is behind it. Reykjavík and rural areas in the big capital area also have a wide variety of cooperations. I understand a certain extent of the ideologies behind the bill, but I'm equally convinced that perimeters will remain peripheral. I feel that it has been the case in many places where larger unity has been, unfortunately. When humans are actually at a critical point, and then the administrations have been moved away, the heart is a little gone when the situation is like this. There are examples of this. Granted, there are no doors to close, and we can look to the long future, but I think it's something we're not ready to do. And because I mentioned before the Multa Council, I also want to name Skullahrep and the House of Germany, a huge job has been put to work to make a good contribution for their union. It has been mainly delayed by Covid. I hope that they can go along with good work, but they are also united behind the project. As I say, this is just so much of a heart thing, and we know it over the years that we've been moving jobs from a country to a rural society, this is supposed to be one part of the development of rural society's ability to receive them, that it hasn't always been a delight for them to move. Farmers feel that they are better off in the ministry than they always complain that the state does not pay enough for projects and calls for more money. I don't think that's necessarily a reason to unite communities. I think they can join us on a project. It says that rural society should become a sustainable site of democratic activity. It is, of course, not democratic at the time of some kind of legalization. The bill cites the Commission's opinion of the environment and transport committee when discussing the Parliament's resolution and in many ways I can agree on the need for space and other such. At least I won't be happy with the bill as it is in this process. When you're talking about handing over power to other administrative units, to rural society or settlement, I don't know if that's gonna reduce much. It's been done here in this large area. What we would see in all of this might be a savings to management, certainly, because sweaty management would be reduced and could be reduced in regional and other resources, but if the Eastern district was taken into consideration, it might not be a lot of savings. It says that the bill represents an opportunity for regional legislation to establish a democratic basis than before to protect common interests, promote administration and expand the service level - it's a good sentence, but I don't think it's in connection with the legislation. A respectable president. I just wanted to come back here and make my decision on this matter. I've been working in uniting, so I've been through it. There are, however, only two communities that have good relations with one another, even though they are not always from them. In many ways it has worked well, and in other respects it has not worked well, as it will be. But it's been 14 years, I think I'm right, the fifteenth I'll probably start, I think it was in 2006. Of course, we did not really unite until 2010 when The Sun's Wall was opened, but we learned the four years ahead of working on telecommunications. To finish this, I'd like to say that I hope that the committee, I know that she gets a good deal of comments on the subject, is working on this project, based on the discussion that we also take into account democratic factors. It's about a lot of societies. They're at least 20 on this subject, which has expressed strong opposition to these plans. A minister admitted that during the second council, they might have been more compatible. I encourage the committee to respect their viewpoints too.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u125	A respectable president. I'm going to start by wishing to the highest. A minister who finally brings up this matter, which is, of course, following the council arrangement as he did so well. I'm going to allow myself to talk almost exclusively about it, although there are other articles under which I believe I can be more comfortable and I trust the committee to cover that. But like a dog. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir introduced them, and their views are very different when it comes to the best way to go. I'm going to say to begin with that it is absolutely necessary that rural areas in Iceland be united, and then I'm talking about on a large scale. To my view, there are only two ways to discuss in the future. It's on the other hand that rural society goes into considerable cohesion, or that we establish here the third administrative level, and I think it's a inferior option. I think it's important in this context to ask yourself, " What is a community? What is the definition of a rural society, and how do we want rural society to work? What is the future of this administrative system? I have to admit, after having been tracking rural affairs for quite a while, that I'm worried about this administrative level. I'm worried about that because the difference between rural partners has become so dramatic. It has become common to talk about the capital area and larger rural areas in our country and the rest. The focus and interests of these rural communities are far too different. We'll see, for example, in the coverage of a matter here at the council, that, of course, the European Union is having trouble speaking for all members of the community because it's just different and the interests are different. I can certainly feel it in my district, the Southwestern district, that the community of rural society in the capital area is often in a different line than the rural communities in other parts of the country, and there is a reason for that. That's why I think we're going to have to find ways to unite communities. A thousand people are not considered large or large in the population, but I realize that the misunderstanding may be quite significant. I would like to remind you that in Greenland, which is considerably larger than our country, there are now five rural communities. They passed through gignic unity, and their rural communities had reached four, but then they became five. Farmers are an important unit of unity. It is so important that we have a powerful administration at the level of the county, and close - ups are the most important thing to the people. I think most senators have had experience when they speak to their voters that it's more often than not the local business that burns on people. People have opinions about their close - ups, i.e. school, school, street, transportation, and much of the community's shoulders. I think it's important that we give our rural communities the opportunity to develop and develop toward the future and to build even more fully around these important intimate services that they have in their power so much. Then maybe I'd like to take a quick look at the discussion of the activities of my rural society and what the State's projects are. I know that much work has been done, and it may be steady work to spend these gray areas, as is often called, since it is not quite clear who is taking what or who is going to pay for what. Of course, it is completely intolerable for the people and accepters to be thrown between administrative ladders, perhaps having children who have school difficulties, and being thrown between health insurance insurance to get paid by the government, talking health services at school or out of school, psychological services, and all of this. Of course, this is unacceptable, for in the end it is taxpayers who choose people to handle these matters. We, whether we're here at the council or the highest. Ministers and again members of rural governments simply need to find ways to provide such service in the most practical and practical way. So we have to rule out these gray areas and have it clear what is the role of the rural society and what is the role of the State, and then the locals need me, and then I come into the income industry, to have authority to perform the services assigned to them. As a result, it is inevitable, during the conversation about rural society and the importance of their growth and intensity, that their income stocks are also more intensive, perhaps to some extent also stable. It has to be undisputed that there has to be a part of the conversation on this subject here and the future of the local community. I realize that there's a lot to be learned about the matter, how to approach it. And I completely understand the viewpoint of those who say that they should just never have legal alliances. I can totally understand those views. On the other hand, I believe that the future of rural society and evolution is the big issue that we must dare take the discussion on how we will achieve what we obviously have to achieve, and I think we have no time left to do that, i.e. that rural areas will grow bigger and more powerful. Many people might argue that it is just some capitalist to ponder the urban population, and, of course, it is much more complicated when it comes out into the country, and when small settlements are to be joined in another community a few hundred miles away, if it is to be divided, mountain roads between and all of this. There is nothing simple about this, and close - up services, schools, nurserys, and such services need to be close to the location of the inhabitants. However, there are other factors that also involve rural society. V.E.G. There's been a lot more to the administration, and there's more to it today. As a result, it is easier and better for rural society as they grow to be with professional management, information systems, I don't talk about the organizational matters that are so difficult to get through, and more may be picked up. For example, we have reports that rural society is able to work together on various projects. Of course, we know this, it is public transportation, garbage, fire departments, and other things that rural society has often agreed on, and in the vast majority of cases, it is wise. It may not always go smoothly, and it is also a problem. I know it here in the capital area where Reykjavíkurburg has, for example. Often, more representatives wanted to be represented in the settlements in the strength of their size. Still, she enjoys increased rightfulness as the largest member of these settlements. But then we've also entered the mission chain. Who chose the subject to be chairman of the Streets or Sophree and present them a case on behalf of the voters? That is where we come to this close - up service at which our rural society has its place. It is this closeness, this feeling, it is a privilege to have a conversation with someone in the countryside because you meet him at the store or at a walk; it is easier to get his way. In view of the fact that so many people are making decision - making decisions, the community may well be a democracies. All of our rural communities have names where people come from town to share in a job that is only involved in the project of the committee. This will always be more complicated when our rural communities are working together in the community, breaking the embargo chain, and this is going to be more complicated. I also think that there's evidence that it's more important that the country society is just bigger and bigger, and people have the opportunity to vote for their deputies to represent themselves. Then, like Reykjavík, it can become quite familiar with evasion, and it is also known in many of the rural communities that have been united to want to have such advice in each core. Farmers have developed a fine way to respect the democracy in this very way, so that the voices of local inhabitants are heard. To say this, I don't think anyone should hide my view of the bill, and even though I understand the other views, I noticed that it was the highest. A minister said: "We must not give up on the task. I'm going to agree with that. I think it's extremely important that we find ways to make our rural communities bigger and more powerful, whether it's exactly the output recommended in the bill or other workouts from the bill. An environmental and transport committee that would possibly be more at peace. It would be wish that we could be at peace with each other on which road to go. V.E.G. A minister used the wording, if I recall correctly, to starve the communities for unity through an equation fund. Then he is likely to refer to what is often mentioned, that the balance fund can be used as a specific tool to promote unity. I have to admit that I haven't seen the way of starving my rural society, but I think the equation fund must play a huge role when it comes to expanding and strengthening rural society, i.e. At any rate, it is unacceptable that balance rules are in such a way that they work against the motivation for unity and actually encourage rural society to remain unchanged. Of course, it is unnatural, it may be an example of long ago that rural communities receive much of their contribution through an equation fund. I think it's unnatural. I want to stay inhabited in the country, and there may be some areas in which income is difficult to earn, and then income comes from the equation, and it's the way it's thought, it's to increase the equation between rural partners, but the incentive must not be constantly looking at how we can profit and how we can strengthen and sustain the local community. I wish. The environment and transport committees benefit from this project, which I know is controversial and controversial, but there are very different viewpoints. I reiterate that I think it is extremely important that we come to some conclusion about how we want to see this future. I reiterate what I said earlier: It's either a way of making sure that rural communities form fast and safely and grow big and sexy or roll up the way of forming a third administrative level. I don't think it's necessary to look this way, but it's in my mind the only option against not looking at the size of your community as they are today.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u126	Mr. President. This is where we have put a bill of the highest power. Secretary of Ministers following Congress Recontraction of the same topic, of a policy-making strategy for the management of rural society for the past 2019-2023 and of the Action Programme for the past council. This was the resolution of the Council No. 21/150. It was thought of as a first step in implementing the objective of strengthening the level of government. Over the years, it has been our policy for our peers to strengthen the level of government and strengthen the self - control of our rural society. This bill, Mr. President, is important and is not undisputed. It deals with sensitive materials, deals with our neighboring communities, and those who are small and fragile, the few, and has to go for it. This bill speaks for the time, but primarily for the future, supports the goal of the country's government level. Close - up services of various kinds, community services, are best placed in the local community, and are organized and developed in accordance with the needs of the community. The social factors we have hoped for are growing in scope. The trends in the demands of the inhabitants of the country are as good as the best at national level. For example, in both technical and social matters, the situation exists everywhere. Of course, it is often difficult for small rural communities to care for, and just sometimes too much, unless there is considerable support from rural congregations. But we also know, Mr. President, that a number of smaller rural areas around the country are involved in working together on individual problems, forming cohesions that are developed in many areas, but in many areas, there are modern forms, and the superior vision and overall approach desired may not be fully achieved if the same administrative entity is not worked in one or another. One of the main opinions on the bill is likely, and can be counted as the terms of Article 1. that the minimum number of rural partners should be 1,000 from 2026. If we look at it, the scope of Iceland's rural society has been varied and greatly altered. As I mentioned earlier, in response to my minister, there were 203 societies in the country in 1910, but there were still more in the years 19483/41952. Then it turned out to be 229. During the next decades or until 1986, the number of them remained pretty constant at the time of 222. Then, during the next two decades, the changes changed, followed by a high fusion sequence that ended in 2006, the number of rural communities had fallen to 79. Of course, what was involved was that Kingdom service earlier was transferred to the rural communities that motivated them to change and unite in order to accomplish their assignments successfully. The rural population had to be more powerful, they had to be more elaborate and larger as service and management units. As a result, a relatively slow rate of fusion took place, but today the number of rural areas is about 72, where we sit. Of course, you can say that we can unite in saying that all of this is desirable to develop in its own proper and voluntary way, as it has done most of the time. Here, though, is a step toward reaching out, and in one way or another, we must do so. Here is a policy where the population of rural society should be at least 1,000. It's a population that may not be practical, but it's on its way. In recent years, rural society has declined, as is evident from my case. The number has decreased by 125 in the past 27 years, and there is a significant reduction, but today there are more than 54% of rural society, or 39, with fewer population than 1,000 and seven of the largest rural communities, with population of between 475.993. In our modern society, where we have many expectations and requirements for public service, local societies of this magnitude have been unable to provide various laws of service, so that there are many social services. How do these rural communities get themselves involved in such projects? I'm sure they'll make a deal with the neighbors. There have also been circumstances in which these small rural communities become somewhat homogeneous. It is one of the objectives of this work to contribute to the diversity, demographic, growth, and normality of rural society in general. Therefore, the evidence that rural society is growing is obvious. They are the same as they have been before, making rural society a more powerful administrative unit for its inhabitants. It is, of course, a joy to promote the level of government. We have often discussed that many projects are more likely to exist in the vicinity of our community, as mentioned earlier. Health services have often been specified, aging services have been identified as well. However, rural communities have taken this to a degree. The tracks have scared them. Despite the fact that imperfect, rural, and rural governments have failed to trust that the needed service is paid for. No one doubts, and experience shows this, e.g. in the experimentes of the Hornfjord and Akureyri, that the service becomes better, general pleasure through the ministry becomes greater, and its organization becomes more continuous and generally more practical, but it will still be more costly, by reason of those which are considered to be less expensive. That there is better and greater service to be done. It is enough to take the factors that people normally highlight in their own community. V.E.G. A minister reviewed various objectives set by the bill. It is, as I mentioned, that to enable rural communities to stand on their own feet and not have to rely on cohesion, as it has been done, but that they can become self-sustained in this respect. This is increasing the diversity of population development and dating. It's important. It has also been noted that larger units should be able to work more effectively together, e.g. Company control. Of course, there are no big numbers, but they do count. There are many factors in this regard. It will be particularly interesting to observe the trend east of the Mulla Council, a new rural society. There they plan to have a distribution control program in a very large rural society. This is what you can do. We also have experience in Western Europe when our rural communities were united in the arrival of Isafjörður. There is quite some experience, and it may not be possible for the small communities in that area to succeed on their own terms. As a minister entered, it is now that Covid has died, one of the motivations to spin pies together and unite or at least think seriously about it. There are conflicting opinions on the subject of this bill. I can really feel it in many parts of the country. These are emotional factors, and some rural communities actually manage their business, the smaller ones, that the next very thing they do is worry about conventional basics. This is especially so because there is considerable participation in the Slurpee Fund of rural society. It is a question of whether it really is sustainable and whether these rural societies have not become very sensitive business modules if there is a change in equation donations, as has been the result of the past losses. We also hear from a councilman's talk that 1000 people of rural society are not much better off than 500 members of a rural community and if they're to unite at one level, it needs to be done in a much more powerful way and think larger. We may be able to do so, but we may not have been spiritually ready to give it a chance to develop. Yet, we do well to consider the facts we see in the east. All of this, however, is also based on geographic factors and must be able to ensure good transport. A respectable president. This bill now applies to the transport and environment committee, and it will be interesting to be allowed to participate in communication and discussions about it. One factor that should have encouraged in a more powerful way than we have seen is, of course, improved transportation, a tunnel, and such. We have an example from the Mountain Lands, where transportation work by means of a tunnel of soil, The Watch Tower, was essential, but we have yet to face other challenges. But I'm excited to discuss this matter further on the Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u127	A respectable president. We're here to discuss the expansion of the unit level, and it's important. We must have the administrative unit as the most powerful. What may be the most debated and debated is the legal entity that can come into existence if your community is not aware of this, i.e. legalisation of the minimum population at 1,000. I take my heart to the importance of a powerful unit control level and that we will use everything we can to help make the country level the most powerful. Most of the evidence suggests that the community unit benefits the population, the democracy, the management economy, and so that the rural communities can deal with the demands and duties they have met, but I admit that I have only very difficult to force them into unity. In general, in my political climate, I've never been in favor of the pressure, the commandments, and bans, but much rather looked into motivation, to induce. It's certainly been doing it here to some extent. Maybe I think we need to talk about it at the moment. The environment and transport committees for strategists, rurals and their organisations, if anything further about motivation, find other compromises to achieve this. We discussed the Parliamentary arrangement, where this goal was first made so that we've only discussed it before. Then it became clear that this number, 1,000, did not have any material arguments behind him. Rather, it was a little put up to take the direction. It was probably the most likely number, and at least I got the feeling that this was the number the local community would make up at their own level to suggest, which was the case. The addition council agreed to this number and that these measures would be carried out, but this situation has reduced its solidarity. What's a sustainable community? What does a community need to be large to be practical and so forth? There is no evidence or assessment of it, and although attempts were made to try to find it, there is nothing behind it. I'm worried that we don't have reason to believe that this is right, if we're going to go to legalize rural society to harmony, that we don't have a better argument behind the population we're going to suggest. Then it's just in most places, so it's really hard to force someone to do something. Teamwork is never a good start to force people to cooperate. If they do not have the will and initiative to do so, they will probably color what follows. We must realize that if we are going to achieve a more efficient and more efficient operation, better service to the people, then it's about how the government is united, how it's going to be fired, how new administrations and united rural society will be run after unity, and if it all begins into stiffness and strife, then the future of that community will certainly not be successful. I want to give them the hottest potato right away. It's the schools. Since rural society has taken its own initiative, school matters are always the warmest or the most quarrelsome. There's a lot of emotion, a lot of emotions, but that's where the most money and the best interests are to do well for your children. It often seems that children may be at peace with one another and may promote the schools, increase and variety of social life and all of that, so it shows a bit of the benefit of uniting and creating larger societies with more varied and more intensive services. But the people and the parents who live far and wide throughout the rural community are not always quite ready to accept that this is the most reasonable thing because they have some regrets about the vertebral barrier in their school society. It's the biggest workplace, it gets the most money, and it's the biggest life around it. They certainly do not want to see it later. This is an example of a major issue, and I think it might be even more difficult if people are forced to unite. We need to do what we can to increase our motivation, to go some other way. I have wondered, then, if it would be an excellent way to communicate in this matter that before any member of the community is made to be united because of a minority, it would be more appropriate for them to discuss whether they would have to engage in mutual discussions, exploratory talks, so that they would know how a community can be made, how a united community would look, how the people and the community's most concerned about this would feel angry. At the end of such discussions, they may make a decision. Thus, we would rather make them have this sort of exploratory or united conversation that would end with the vote of the people so that they would be informed of how this new community would be, what their circumstances will be. I've made it fun of me and for information to attend a meeting at a local community that has either already joined or is involved in unity these days. I've heard of people who disagree but are very opposed to these talks, that they're discussing things, comparing them to the people, calculating them and taking them out. I'm not from the fact that this could further result in harmony with the motivations that are present and that it would reduce the need for them to be united. I'd also like to step in on the fact that the masses don't say everything. Conditions vary so different. It can be a small rural society, e.g. in a large agricultural region where there is a highland and so forth. It presents a different challenge, a different prince's attitude, and those who live in it than those who live far away from the highlands and less in agriculture. When two different communities are united, a measure of interest and value in smaller areas within the community are likely to exist in the strength of the masses. And this is, naturally, just one reason why we haven't tied votes to total elections, and we're divided into different categories and like that. It's to ensure different interests, and this is exactly the same with the communities. Also another: If our rural communities become too large and too vast, elected agents may fail to maintain the same relations with the population. But the main evidence that we are moving a project from the State to the rural community is moving the support services into the closer environment, so that the close - up services are somewhat controlled by those in the same environment as the citizens, to provide better service. But we're not supposed to make our rural communities too big or make the situation too big to get us to get what we've been trying to achieve so far in our local service. I find it right here at the General Assembly, and when you meet people in the districts that after the districts grew, people feel that the distance from the Council has increased. It's not the only reason, but I think that's one of many reasons why confidence in the Council has diminished, the general people are not as close to the voters as they were in my previous votes. This also needs to be handled with uniting partners. Clearly, some rural communities are supposed to unite, and this can vary elsewhere. But the rural communities are always having more responsibilities, and they want to fulfill and want to live by government editors their right to control their own business. Then I also put a little question mark on the fact that they're coming to us and asking us to force them into unity because they don't take care of it themselves. They become some responsibility. The large rural areas, which may drive the most about unity, will somehow have to find ways to approach the smaller communities so that they want to make negotiations. Nor should they make their services more challenging by letting the smaller communities get it under guard. Some may say that then large communities would not be living up to their responsibility and that they were forcing them to unite with them. At any rate, though, they must discuss how they can bear responsibility and handle their own matters and achieve this. Besides, I'd like to say that circumstances in rural society can be such that it's just no more practical to combine them. It was very clear when we were discussing it, at which point. The Environment and Transport Committee, the Parliament's resolution proposed by this bill. The economicity of rural society would not always be a goal, perhaps a unit would be just to make them administratively stronger, but not necessarily more efficient in business. A certain size of rural society can create problems. If we are increasing the number of middle managers or we are reaching the size not of managers and workers but in part, only if there is a need to increase the number of intermediate groups to a larger level, the amount of control gains weight and the service becomes bigger. And I say again what I said before, to be far away from the inhabitants of the service. I've been over what I'm worried about and what we need to fit in with. But I reiterate that I realize that many societies are too small. They are not administratively strong enough to handle the vital tasks of the rural community, which are the organizational issues. Organizational issues are of utmost importance and become more important each year. It is important that they are large enough to be able to have planning agents, construction agents, and so forth, in order to get these things straight. It is also the school language, that they can stand at a classroom, have a school assistant, make proper schooling, and deal with it because schools are a large part of the business. Then I reiterate that those rural communities that have joined together or are in a school setting have not been successful in setting things up and making changes, as the students and children often want, because the people have not wanted to see after school from their local core. Then there's the natural infrastructure. It may be extremely important for the rural population to have greater resources to live up to basics, such as infrastructure, trajectory, and so forth. So there is much to consider. I'm just looking forward to dealing with this project and discussing it on the environment and transport committee, and hopefully we'll find some ways to increase the motivation and continue the positive developments that have been occurring. The rural population is on its way to unite, the number is progressively decreasing, so this is happening without law.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u128	Mr. President. It's time for the World Council to be held at the top of the bill. Transport and rural Minister for change in rural government laws and the law on rural income populations which recommend the minimum population in rural areas. Is the bill followed by a resolution of Congress, No. 21/150, since last Parliament, on a policy-relevant strategy on the affairs of rural society of 2019/2033 and on the implementation plan for the next five years. My stand on this matter is clear. I'm against this, so they just say it at the beginning. I'm against this bill. The aim of this programme is to promote the rurality, improve the sustainable development of rural society and add their services to the population. This is simply a rule that rural society should not have fewer than 1,000 inhabitants. In fact, it is stated in the bill that if the population of rural society is less than 1,000 for three consecutive years, a minister should take the initiative to combine it with another or another neighboring community. However, a minister can give temporary replacements from the minimum population for up to four years and once if specific reasons clearly indicate that a rural community can develop a whole administrative body with adjacent rural communities. This expression suggests that if there are any specific reasons against the development of a political entity, it can be postponed for a single time or for four years. In other words, the entire administrative body is to be formed but only four years later. It does not seem to me that it is possible to postpone it, but it should, even if there are reasons why this group cannot produce this whole entity. That's to be done, Mr. President. Then there is an exception to this general rule in the bill I was referring to. Farmers with a population of under 250 have delayed the next county election or the year 2022, and the rest of the population under 1,000 have the same delay for 2026 rural elections. This was introduced to us last year when the synopsis proposal was here to treat, to give a lead period, and it shows that 1,000 people of the population do not apply to the smallest communities until 2022, and to bigger ones, up to 1,000, the deadline is 2026. When so that rural communities do not cooperate, a minister will come to unite the rural society within two years of the specified election. Actually, we're talking about areas that stubbornly we can pull this over the next district election and for up to two years until a minister is forced to act. So it's all over with some time, and they don't start passing until next year, and then the life of this government will be a long time past that bill. The minister makes a cohesion proposal following the proposal of a cohesion committee which he sets up and the reviews of his rural society, then a minister shall decide which communities should unite. When such a decision is made by a minister, the main thing to consider is that the inhabitants of the rural community and that a new rural society would form a geographic and social community. If the Compatibility Committee makes more than one suggestion, a minister may decide to make a general and perfunctory vote among the people for the suggestions. What interests me when this is checked, how these proceedings should be conducted according to the bill, is that the cohesion committee initially set up, as soon as it becomes clear that rural communities must unite, and a minister must be carried out and appointed by this committee, and work at an early level in the uniting process, shall provide information on the nature of the population's will. But how? It does so by surveys, local meetings, or by an open review procedure, but at this stage, it is not expected to vote for harmony. The people, Mr. President, are not coming to this until the end of the world when the Minister himself is making the decision. Formerly, the inhabitants are asked only by surveys, by local meetings, or by open reviews. It seems to me at the bill that the inhabitants are expected not to come directly to this decision, unless a minister appears to be making the final decision. This is against me if I just talk about it, not directly about my position. Certainly, Mr. President, it is quite remarkable that the bill we're discussing here should be made up of a rift on the issues of partnerships at the last European Union Parliament in mid December. The council suggested a proposal made by 31 members of the council and, in fact, was a physical agreement proposal that was not granted at the Community Assembly in the previous year, September 2019. The motion said so, with the permission of the president: The European Union Parliament of December 18, 2020, encourages the development of the rural government by uniting and enlargement. The Parliament relies on most of the main issues of a policy-making programme for the expansion of the unit level adopted by the General. The Court's work programme reminds us of important non-programming activities, such as the promotion of rural income, the exchange of income from country to country, the increase in public activity in the country and other important aspects of the proposal. However, the U.S. Council rejects the legalization of the population. The privacy rights of a community partner and the democratic right of a community should be respected regardless of their size So says a report with the suggestion: There are and there have been long-term conditions in the context of EU Member States. Most of them still are, and they want to stay. Yet, they cannot long be fond of the breaking and breaking of the inhabitants of the land. The fellow members of a larger community do not have a democratic authority to conclude about my community's fate, it does not belong in this fine company. The representatives of a larger community might think of the Golden Rule: What you want men to do to you, you also must do to them. This proposal by a number of smaller members was issued at the council with 55% votes against 45%. What does that tell us, Mr. President? It is just as it would begin to counter this suggestion, which will go on rejecting legal alliances. You're right. You're right. You're right. The European Union, at the December National Parliament, splits into two parts. Then you can ask yourself, Mr. President, if ever. Ministers feel that they are working on the progress of rural society, why it is so clear to the will of a large part of the country as the result of this vote clearly shows. The bill is presented in opposition to nearly half of the members of the U.S. National Congress. Less than half of the council members at the local council of rural society reject the legislation of uniting members. This is thought - provoking, especially if we consider who are seated there. That's a representative of all my community in Iceland. Maybe less than half of them, the bigger ones, don't have to be reunited with a neighboring society any more than they want. The other half or more, I don't have those numbers clear, Mr. President, but something close to it, is under this minimum and is forced to do so, not only here at the General with this bill, but also at the scene itself, in the crime scene of the community. The larger rural areas have no advantage because communities are somewhere in Langanesi, or the Eyjafjörður, or on the coasts of the United States. Reykjavík doesn't have much to do with it. Or what? I don't see it at least. but they still agree with such a proposal that is central, the basis and the basis of this bill showing us here at the General Assembly and the suggestions that have been here at the last council and now. It's sobering, Mr. President, on what route are these organizations, which are the umbrella groups of all units, when they agree, with their larger votes, to build a frame around the rest of the rural communities that meet with opposition. Where are we when we are? It's really confusing to me. Where are we? In this regard, it is the closest thing to pondering the words of a local society that is popular in its use and that is always to wear and keep high in writing and speaking, the self - determination right of a community. What is the significance of such a beautiful word when you see the events I was referring to? Where does the interest in larger rural areas come from that the less communities will necessarily be united without them wanting to do so? The people don't want to. The managers don't want to. This is all the strangest thing, Mr. President. Navigator level is another two administrative ladders here. The rest is the government. With the bill, one begins to force the other to make a very significant change in its organization, and this is against the will of nearly half their representatives. What is the right of self - determination? It must also be considered, Mr. President, that the communities are very different, they are all very different, each in its own way. It also has to be watched that Iceland's population is very large that most residents live in a very small part of the country, i.e. in the capital area. If you take a slightly larger area like the southwest corner, you might have 80% or more inhabitants on that corner. Thus, the land is widely scattered in other respects. Clearly, forcing large rural communities to unite has in many ways, Mr. President, very little advantage and very little practicality. It is equally long to drive the children to school, whether united, a farm society on the other side of the desert or the flea. They are different, and society is very different. Then you might ask, "Why 1,000?" Is it some number of gold that was invented? Mr. President. So I'm using the wording of some executives who have been conducting talks here today, i.e. that they can understand the viewpoint of those who oppose it, that I can have the same expression on the viewpoint of cohesionists, the legalist, of uniting smaller communities. I certainly understand their point of view, but to force societies against their will and their inhabitants to join another country society, I don't understand. The bill, if legalized, affects most of the rural areas in such a way that they will be forced to join a neighboring group, so this is a major matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u129	A respectable president. I want here at 1st. for a bill from a transport minister, for a change in rural law and a law on farms to put in a few words and then just about 1. The matter and its secondary components. I was quite surprised, so I say just as it is, that the matter would not be altered to the council after the European Union Council of December 18th, for the nuclear reasonings that have always been applied, that the common vision of rural society would cover the way to further community unity as a law-enforcement. Hv. paritaprevir In the preceding article, Hjaltason Gautiçin gave an excellent review of the subject's career and how it was done and, without any doubt, more have discussed it in the previous talks on this subject. The news received from the New World Council of the European Union from mid - December were that I thought that these legal exercises fell because it was obvious that the case was not acceptable. The members of a smaller group had promoted their views, and they received little thanks, but they seemed to have had quite a point. At December 18, 20 of the country's smaller rural communities suggested that the European Union's position be removed from its decision to support the full course of legalizing unions, where it would not otherwise be achieved within a given time period. True, the suggestion was made, but it was 67 words against 54. Bear in mind that each of the small members of the team that made the proposal has one vote, and at the same time, the city of Reykjavík has 21, i.e. Reykjavíkurburg alone has more votes than the 20 societies that proposed, and the votes of Akureyri City reach me as much as I remember the long way in that number. It shows that if each member of the community had a vote, it would have been very obvious that it would have been an irony, this approach to the relationship, but it had always been discussed in a way that was overwhelmingly content and support. I think it's important that we keep it in mind as we approach this situation so little now. In 1st. discusses the minimum population of rural society to be 1,000, and then it is followed by a set of terms allowed by a minister, by the permission of a president, to provide temporary escape from minimal population for up to four years, and once if specific reasons violate that a local society can develop a administrative entity with neighbouring rural communities in their local communities, to the same degree. The extras or postponements that exist in the bill are not long - term or are relevant in themselves in the large context, since the life span of a rural community is not the core of the discussion. It is the prince's decision to make, at the very best. Secretary of the United States, that this legal means will be effective. That's what I want to make a lot of remarks. Come on, y'all, let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! discussed factors in which the process is carried through by law-enforcement. I reiterate that this is not what I personally expected to be shown up, for certainly there are things of the matter that are fine and based on a judicial resolution adopted at the council in January 2020. But I'm afraid this point is still in here. I just hope there's a review of an environment and transportation committee, where I'm and what. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason, which I see here in the audience, and others sit, and I hope to the highest. The transport and local minister will not be hard on this particular issue. In talks earlier today, there have been a number of things that may not be fully understood. That, in fact, has been the case. The claim that the Covid situation is particularly difficult for smaller rural areas when it becomes evident that the situation is the worst in Smokejanestown, which will now be regarded as one of the less rural areas in the country. After all, if we look at the financial situation of that rural society, although all the luck for the city's fund is free from any tourist, according to the report of the tourists'arrival in the country and their presence in Reykjavíkurburg, it would be billions of dollars a year for the city. The fact is, however, that there are probably few communities if any are equal in financial terms to the city of Reykjavík. There is no indication that the mass economy works especially with the capital of Iceland. The smaller areas of society that are driven by much higher moderation and reason give us a much better management position than what we see there. Opinions have been made that in some way it would be necessary to cover and define what is a sustainable rural society. One of the definitions I heard from the highest. A minister suggested that the services of a rural society be considered, for example. Disturbing or operating elementary school One and another mentioned a minister as a possible definition of what a sustainable rural society meant. But we will look at the capital area where we may see the greatest need for unity in long chapters, while the communities here are driven to avoid making personal waste care or firefighters. It's all in common in settlements. So I feel that the evidence is basically falling, for, of course, some community partnerships can be met in some convergence of areas along the country's settlements, just as it was here in the capital area. Yet, there seems to be a special way of losing the settlement here in the capital area. At the same time, aging services have been referred to, of course, to many rural communities living in nursing homes, including small rural areas, such as Skaga coasts, Gosh Bank Bus, Langanes, and Armistics, for some to be mentioned. The failure of the government has led to the recent surrender of four rural societies to a treaties with the State. But the important thing is that there are not the small communities that are canceling their deal with the state. It's Akureyri, the Western Islands, the Far East and Horny. How does it rhyme with the language that our little rural society cannot be met? As you sometimes want to be, a sound does not match a picture. I'd also like to point out points in paragraph 13. the bill involved in changing the law on farm income populations. It says, by permission of the president: It is permitted to keep up to 1,000 million. K. of income [...] outside the amount of money that should flow to the languages of disabled persons, every year during the period 2020-2035 to collect special donations from the fund, which come in due to community unity, cr. 1st Team: When presented at the outset, I am concerned that local governments around us understood that it was so important that the motivation for unity, which said this involuntary financial action against the rural communities, was that the rural communities were about to pay it themselves from an equation fund of money that would otherwise be provided for the standard fund. I think it's right to say that the yellow root in front of rural society at the beginning of the situation will eventually come from the equation itself and take the money from the fund's other projects. Of course, one can celebrate it from defending the state's office at any time, and so forth, but I think it's a big deal that there's no misunderstanding about it. The Environment and Transport Committee is expected to treat this issue after the discussion is concluded right after this discussion. I'm on that committee looking forward to dealing with the situation, but I'm assuming that, as the preceding discussion has discussed, it's going to be very controversial. All the evidences associated with this alleged reconciliation and solidarity of the forced union fell, they died on December 18th. This discussion can be started with dealing with the material evidence. But the evidence of community solidarity on this issue is from and was actually never there, which, of course, is worth considering how the European Union proposed it. I'm gonna let this go right now. I want to, however, to be careful, to say that there are some things that are fine in this case, and, of course, there will be observations, and there may be some compensation to these factors. A brain would be a fine thing if it wasn't for the legal alliances that are actually put back there. We need to have the wisdom to make this difference in two things, one on the other, to the very controversial part, and I hope we wind off here at the council and one of the other aspects of the matter that concerns the Senate resolutions of the rural communities that were adopted here at the beginning of 2020.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u130	President. I wanted to split it in two, and now I'm just going over where I think the problem is. I don't think it's the organization that's now, but simply what your rural society can do to be self-sustaining, self-management and self-sustaining adults. It's simply the problems associated with farm stocks. We all know that they are limited and dosed in such a way that the balance fund, and so on, there is a common poverty trap for rural society. Companies are largely subject to income taxation and real estate expenditures. Also, there are other expenditures to cover costs, street expenses, etc., so it does not affect the general community service. This means, with these two farms, that rural income comes from having a lot of people, preferably with a higher income than it does, and many square feet of houses. The revenues of rural society are not derived from other enterprises, e.g. enterprises which have few employees and few square meters, which are located in a home area e.g. They do not come from an expansive of fiscal taxes or trades that take place in the countryside, such as a store, an amount of value tax, e.g. It would be very normal for rural society to share in the same income stocks that the state has, and it is important on this point, so that professional development in a rural community can take into account more types of work than the population based on the number of square feet and a number of people, preferably with high income. It is important that rural society can do this in innovation based on other income presidents but only four square feet and a number of people when building up their economic policies. When they come up with ideas about how to make a rural society sustainable, it is absolutely necessary that they can earn their income from that type of job, e.g. of the network or a variety of software types or what it can be, which is not linked to these limited farms, these farms that limit what rural societies can do to sustain themselves and limit their ability to work on their own control. It is the policy of Pirata that rural communities are being exposed to more of the state's income stocks, not that they will be raised, but that their share will be changed, because we also know that the rural communities have been given increased jobs that have not been paid for. When basic schools moved to the rural communities, there may have been increased demand for elementary school that did not follow. Thus, the burden of rural society is increased by running elementary school without the resources they have to meet with increasing income. This is my input and another possibility that can be considered to help team members together, in order to actually work on the practical and positive structure of diverse rural communities, that is, not to force unity, but to give rural areas the opportunity to thrive on their own terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u131	Madam President. I was going to add a little bit to my first talk, and I would mention some points. Union unions are covered and should be forced because this is not working well enough. I think the number of rural areas has dropped substantially over the last few decades, and they continue to decline. Recent unity is evidence of this; four rural communities were united in the East not quite long before a new community, the Mulla Council. Only two, three years ago, rural areas in the South were united. The development is this direction, and with the encouragement of the government it can continue and we approach the target, which is larger rural areas and more sustainable, etc. so that it can be done without legislation. What's the right size, Madam President, of a country club? It's probably very different. From a practical standpoint, it is not necessarily practical to combine two very scattered communities. Thus there is no high size advantage because the service is as far away, no matter how this is calculated back and forth, so there is a defect in this. As far as I know, my country's financial situation is more generally better, even much better, than their financial situation. And why would that be, Madam President? Is the neighborhood and the responsibility perhaps a more responsible financial administration in my rural society? Are we in the larger ones, perhaps because of the crowd's smaller responsibilities, perhaps making the money worse? I don't know what the right, the best, the most efficient size is. But it can be debated whether it is better to unite from a financial point of view. The rural areas vary from geographic to transport. These are urban, rural, and fjords, fleas, and pagan segregation. The community type is also very different, and what may be suitable for one price may not necessarily be suitable for another person next to it. People choose to live in these places, and some are the benefits. The benefits may not be theirs, as you can see, to unite and be farther away from power. Perhaps there is one of the advantages of living in a rural society, I think it's rather now, to be closer to the decision-making, Madam President, closer to decision-making, closer to a government officer and being able to make a difference. It could be one of the advantages. By uniting rural areas, there may be a potential problem. This option is being undermined, since people are in close proximity and can control and feel that they have more control than perhaps even a bigger community. It may not necessarily be most practical for us Icelanders to have the capital area as large as it is for rural areas in general. It may not be the most practical. Is it to be cut apart? Why don't we just let the people figure it out? I think maybe that's the whole point. I also want to talk about the state level, and I was going to do it, but I don't have time to do it. Of course, it's time for you, Madam President, to consider, if this continues to do so, to arrive at the Third Division. It's been discussed many times, and I'd like to have a discussion about it later, but when the power goes so far from the population, maybe we need even less unity in many parts of the country. Maybe it's something to come, I won't say, but I'd also like to remind you that this bill affects 40 of 72 rural communities in the country, 13 of which have fewer than 250 inhabitants. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u132	A respectable president. I'm going to discuss a very short bill to correct the change in rural government laws and the law on farm income populations. As we have seen, the bill is the first thing proposed by the Minister of the Foreign Government to achieve the objective of a decision-making programme in rural affairs by 2019-2333 and the actions programme for 20191⁄223. The conclusion was the first to set out policies and measures in rural affairs to promote the level of government. So it was a milestone when it was submitted. The focus of the Senate resolution was to promote the rural level in this country, increase the sustainable development of rural society, and further add services to the population. If the aims of the resolution are reached, communities will also be better equipped to meet many challenges they and society all face at any given time, as well as to care for the most important interests in the population. The conclusion also places high emphasis on sustainable rural society and their democratic activities and guaranteeing that the rights and access of citizens will be equal to their services. The first part of the Action Programme specifically aims to improve the sustainable development of rural partners and to ensure their ability to handle legitimate tasks, including together into larger rural areas. This is one of 11 members of the Action Programme and was in some part controversial and since the resolution of the synopsis, further disagreements have been made. In his prehistory speech earlier, the highest lay possible. Ministers stress the importance of achieving agreement to achieve the objectives of the bill on strong, sustainable rural communities and to meet with requirements for minimum population populations. I may come here primarily to allow me to question the possibility of giving an opportunity to work on the environment and transport committees to achieve this reconciliation to the end, but perhaps it's necessary that this happens at the scene of our rural society. Certainly the Committee will look at the matter and the possibility of changing the situation and I find it important to maintain that the bill also contains provisions to be decommissioned at this council, such as sources to telecommunications, changes in rural income laws, and particularly the duties of rural society in order to achieve the level of living and communities away from the largest local population, or perhaps the center of rural society, where communities are not necessarily different. This is the challenge that the Environment and Transport Committee will face in the handling of this matter, and I wanted to come here primarily to correct it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u133	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion, at least she's been doing it the way she's doing. In view of the fact that earlier in this term, there were some striking statements on the importance of completing this matter and supporting it, I have missed them in this discussion. Similarly, a person who likes to have, like often when discussing local government matters, would like to hear more knowledge behind the subject, especially when discussing the balance fund and its financing. I understand that, many say it's complicated, but I don't think it's good for people to go wrong from this chair about that in an attempt to bring reproach on the work being done here. Here at least two members of the Central Party spoke. One said that he was completely against the case, yet the other was okay with the financial motivations and the changes in rural government laws involved, and I hope that that's the opinion of that group, that he's not entirely against the case. This was a viewpoint that I may not have expected to take such a negative view during the Senate resolution that we would need to consider the viewpoints presented here, we would have to have more time to adapt to the local communities that wanted to take more time. I felt that people would not take into account that it had been done. This discussed the road and the compromises that could be made. I've done what we politicians have to do when we discuss controversial cases, I've listened. Then I might have wanted to hear the council say that it's part of this dance with the government and the local community, to consider whether it's wise to put down a minimum population of people, whether they should be somebody other than this, whether an adaptation time should be longer and what to do when it comes to society's having this minimum population or this defined concept of sustainability, if we were going to work on it. On the other hand, as I said in the history of history, I am going to declare my will and the Ministry to cooperate with both the council and the rural communities of the country to find the ways that are needed to promote the local government level, if not from this precise bill and all the measures it contains, at least, on the basis of the bill, because there are very many factors in which there are certainly support to the synopsis and the aim to promote the rural level, the financial incentives and changes in the work and privileges of government. We were able to form in a newly formed rural society at the East, the Mulla Council, the so - called home governments, a most exciting innovation that will be pleasant to observe and could solve the problem that some would discuss here. I heard people worried about the power to go away, and people couldn't live in the same place. I have to say, Madam President, I don't understand those views. We're talking government units. Societys don't change anything. Many unitys have occurred over the years, and let us go around the country. I'm sure I'm forgetting a lot of rural society, but I'm just going to mention it so people can see that the people who were here with everything in their heads that it was bad then must come and say that everything that's been done has gone to the sink and is all impossible. In the South, is there now a Smokey Town, but wasn't it even Cheflavík and Njardík? Southnestown is a new rural society that developed in 2018, formerly a Sandmaker and Garth. Let's go up to the West, the town of the city, I know I'm running over a few examples, but I'm just taking a few, the Valley, the West-West, the Hunsafjörður, the Emirates, the Eyjafjörður, the North Parliament, now the last Mullow, a Far East, which grew into three merges, and has become a vast and powerful community, a rural community of Hornur, I don't think any one would like to trade there. In fact, I have not heard the debate that the five people there want to go back to the five units, and all of them can live in the company of Skaftárfjords as they please, but they joined in order to be a slightly larger administrative unit. Now they wonder again if they need not be larger administrative units. Myerdalship was founded by three rural communities long ago, and I have not heard that the population in it is cutting it down, rather than making it a larger administrative unit because of its success. In the case of the Eastern Court, how successful has it been that the administrative entity, culture, and school work has been, of course, not completely successful. Then, as the Cradle Summit of the Outside, Flohare was made up of three rural communities, the Blue Forest, the Grimnes, and the Grafn Scorpius, the Savvy and Gnums. I could go on, I could go on, I forgot all about, and the Mountain, and the Whale Company, and I jumped absolutely over something, it's a very dangerous game, and I wasn't trying to enumerate all the united communities, I was just giving those who listened to this talk the feeling that it's been going on for a very long time and I've done with the people's will. If your country partner level is to be able to compete properly with the State and take up the rest of the work, then this trend is not good if the rural population is from 50 people who are behind everything they have to do, up to 130,000 and all that. It is better that they are strong enough to carry out their responsibilities as a whole. Of course, they still need cooperation. And 1,000 people are not targets, that's minimum population. In other words, they may be 1,200 or 2,000 or 10,000, or whatever it is now that the people in the designated area think is strong enough to create more services, to attract people from these rural communities who have educated themselves elsewhere, thus enabling them to return and do their jobs so that they are not buying services for long distances from the largest rural communities but are building them up in the region. That's the goal. But as I said in my speech, the population is the smallest, of any number, disputed. I'm ready to talk about any way I can end this case with the goal of strengthening the unit level because I think it's really important to try to make as much peace and get as many people along with it, because I want to believe that I'm doing what I'm supposed to do with politicians often, to listen.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u134	Madam President. I recommend here for the bill to correct the conversion of various laws to the streamlining of regulations, of the topic fields of travel, industrial and innovation, of the Ministry of Professional Railroad and Neon. The bill is a part of the Ministry's Action Programme, which has focused on finding ways to simplify the working environment as much as possible and to review and after events eliminate unnecessary licences, simplify the complexity and reduce the number of employment areas to the governments that are not absolutely necessary. By the changes proposed to the bill I now recommend and as the General agreed to do with my bill, which became the law of No. 19/2020 at the last legislation board reduces the access to long-term job activities that have not been required on the basis of public interest. This increases the flexibility of jobs, economic efficiency and economy, and over a longer period of time, the strength of the job life becomes stronger. This bill suggests a number of changes that I will now briefly review. First, the Ministry is suggested to part out of a test for the recognition of books and thus to end this recognition. A minister's recognition that an individual has passed a certain test does not give him special rights to engage in a particular job above others. Since the adoption of a minister just before the turn of the century, there have been significant changes and the study has become recognized as an important part of accounting. Thus, the study has been established in a way that no longer requires the recognition of a minister. Second, insurance departments for export loans at the New Creation Fund of employment are proposed to be eliminated. The bail department's activities have been down for years, and no export responsibilities have been granted. Despite the decomposition, it will continue to be possible to provide state-secured export responsibilities on the basis of a law on state responsibility, it is needed. Third, there is the need to change the law on property sales and ships, on the one hand, for the rights of real estate dealers to take care of the rules of defenses against money fraud and the funding of terrorism, and on the other hand, the simple handling of the monitoring committee of real estates in closing off-laws. I call attention to the fact that the council has also treated another bill that I have submitted to the simple work of the real estate security committee so that the committee will no longer give binding opinions that clients want to know whether a real estate dealer has placed themselves in the right to a commission or has caused damage to their improved behavior. It came to the conclusion that a legitimate real estate agent needs to have more part in a partner doing real estate sales, but after the review of a statement received by the Ministry of Communicating Government, I decided to drop from the change in which it was not found that there was some kind of market failure on the market for the service of a real estate dealer. For further discussion of this point, please refer to the overview of the bill's report. Fourth, it is suggested that commercial work be removed, and that the laws of free auctions are transferred into the legal law of free funds, that the enforcing of the entitlement of retails, and that the special information of the salesmen of used cars should be disposed of. These changes all lead to a lower burden of order and a simpler arrangement for both employment and consumers. Finally, the law of rights is proposed to refer to business experts and economists as being removed. The education of economists and their professional names has been well established since the Law was given, but at that time, it could be difficult to compare studies in different universities abroad, so it was right in its own time to put a law that included the committee's evaluation in the study of the one who wanted to call himself a businessman or an economist. The law includes the protection of professional vows, which is by nature a species of competitiveness, although it does not include as much interference as it does with legal protection, which involves the exclusive right to carry out their work. The changes in education and employment of business experts, economists, and current professional developments since the Law are no longer considered necessary to maintain the protection it involves. The change is in no way reducing their job options and economists, and there is no way that they have been retrieving their studies. On the contrary, the change means that it is the study and ability of individuals they have developed through the study, which is the basis for the wide range of activities they can take in their study. During this average period, I have used many changes that have the purpose of simplifying the working environment and improving the conditions for successful competition to be maintained in as many sectors as possible. The Ministry has been prepared for a specific implementation programme in which it has been sought to review the regular work on the job and to hear the Ministry, with the objective of looking for ways to simplify and increase the efficiency of the job life. Thus, the General has approved my bills for the change in various laws to the simplified number of licences that included. underlining the conditions of industrial license and license to sell used vehicles, as well as other changes, and changes in competitive laws to simplify and increase the efficiency of the job life. At that time, there were a number of laws that were no longer practical but that were found in the current legal environment. The Council has now treated the Nite Owl legislation for which the Agency's projects are simplified and moved to other governments, where there is a higher level of professional cooperation. The EEA's housing conditions have been removed by the Member States in the Member States on the international investment of foreign partners in employment, but the conditions were not consistent with the national commitments of Iceland through the EEA Convention. There has been an increased electronic management with a company file. I've been putting it into practice that foreign experts will make it easier to work in this country, and I've been working on simplifying vacations with electronic ports, which could continue for so long. One of the biggest projects being done during the season was cooperated with OECD, which made competitive assessment of the regular activities of tourism and construction. OECD returned his report in November last, with over 400 guidelines for changing the current legal and regular environment for these two sectors. Are the suggestions for reducing access block and improving the conditions for active competition, including there are proposed changes to the streamlining of tourism and law-defining professions, and work at the Ministry in consultation with other departments and economics for the implementation of these proposals, so the balance that can result from increased competition will be successful, and it is high. A respectable president. I have considered the subject of the bill and have briefly considered some of the items that I have set for the present term, but there are many other factors to consider. For example, I have not been able to work on improving the management conditions of the tourism service and on additional information work to promote international policy measures, to name just a few. After this discussion, I suggest the bill be passed through 2nd. ... andwhat. The Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u135	V.E.G. President. I would recommend a bill to correct the changing of the Lugano Treaty on the judiciary and the recognition and complete judgment of private matters. In view of the passage of Britain from the European Union, it is suggested that the bill be added temporarily to the laws that ensure that cases related to Britain can be completed which had been judged or received by the Icelandic courts by the end of 2020, on the basis of Lugano Treaty's rules. As noted, on March 29, 2017, Britain's British government formally announced the passage from the European Union following its national payment. However, Britain's exits did not become a reality until January 31, 2020. Then came the so - called lead-in period until the end of the last year. Britain's commitment to comply with EU rules, including the Lugano Treaty, which was involved in its involvement in the European Union. During this period, there was also no change in Iceland and Britain's relationship in this regard. The above adjustment period ended on December 31, 2020, and Britain is no longer a member of the Lugano Convention. It should be noted in the context of the contracts made between Britain and the European Union at the end of the last year, that continued cooperation in the legal field involved in the Lugano Convention is not in place. It should be noted, then, that on April 8, 2020, Britain applied for independent involvement at the Lugano Convention, but negotiations to which negotiations have not yet ended. It is important that issues beginning under the rules of the Lugano Treaty not be in vain that Britain has left the European Union. To ensure this interest, it is suggested by the bill that the case received by the Icelandic courts for handling on January 1, 2021, according to the legal requirement of the Lugano Convention, should be held at a different level under it. At the same time, it is suggested that the same value as in the case of the Icelandic courts is being treated after that date, as they will be based on a judgment pronounced in Britain by the end of 2020. This is a case involving confirmation of the judicial status of the court. Finally, it is to state that Britain has already ensured legalization that this land will be followed by the same Icelandic terms of the Lugano Convention and that mutuality is already assured. I suggest that the bill be following this discussion. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u136	A respectable president. I recommend a synopsis on international flights through Hornafjörður Airport. I'd like to start by saying I'm aware now that I'm doing this case that I think the names of my clients have been washed up. But underneath, with me a Smári Mccarthy, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Silja Dögg Dög Gunnarsdóttir and Þórarinsson It also says that it has the highest power. Social Affairs and Children's Minister, Ásmundur Einar Daðason, but I believe this is supposed to be Ásmundur Friðriksson, so to speak. We will consider this later. The suggestion reads: ▪ The General concluded to hide transport and local government administrators to see if at the Hornafground airport there is sufficient equipment and facilities for international flights with smaller passenger planes and machines on a ferry flight now authorized to fly through the airport. This proposal has previously been introduced to 141,◯146., 148., 149., and 150th legislatures, and is now unchanging. The objective is always the same, but what may have changed among these contributions is that circumstances have changed, and we have been uplifting the report and so on. I want to know, as I might later come in, that we have been working on this proposal, although it has not yet been fulfilled, and this discussion has made its way into a transport program. So the debate this synonym has so far made its way into other bodies of the Parliament and other jobs, mostly in the process of transport programmes. The Hornground airport plays an important role in the transport system of the country. It is important to examine the ongoing operations and development of the region for the benefit of the local people and their professional life. Clearly, the location of the field affords a wide range of opportunities for increased travel, especially following the development of Lake Bay National Park. To that end, it is necessary to examine the availability of adequate equipment and facilities for international flights. The situation today is that it is not authorized to land on international flights, not even smaller ferry planes, which make it necessary for them to land either at Keflavík, at Egls, or in Reykjavík. It's a real disaster, and we're not taking advantage of the important structures that are there when other structures may be fully used, such as in Reykjavík and Kreverík. In January 2008, the Air Force worked on the request of rural and other stakeholders to investigate the possibility of making the airports at Isafjordur, in the Western Islands, and on the Cape as international airports, what measures would be needed to take in order to accomplish this, and what cost might be made of such changes. I want them to be able, because of the flights mentioned here, in the Western Islands and in the Icefjord, along with the airport at the Hornfjord, that all the things I say about the airport on the Hornfjord, are actually applicable to the other airports, i.e. the importance of allowing international flights there and ferry flights. This is a safety issue and gives greater opportunities for people and jobs and better use of infrastructure, as it is said, although this proposal is earmarked Hornfjord. Air Force reports that improvements in safety and monitoring factors at the requested airports have to be made so that smaller aircraft on international flights and planes can be received in the air. The report evaluates the potential and costability of these measures, but there are three main measures to be taken into consideration. Changes must be made in Annex 1 to Regulation No. 866/2017, on cross-border crossings, with subsequent changes, and add Hornground airports to a list of defined border stations. In addition, the requirements for Regulation No. 75/2016, on the requirements and management of airports under the European Parliament and Council Regulation (EC) No. 216/2008, with subsequent changes, due to man-infestation and the security and airport cards and the conditions of Regulation No. 750/2016, on flight protection, with subsequent changes. During the implementation of a proposal for a four-year transport programme for 2015◯ 2018, a greater proportion of the environment and transport committees of the Committee said that they would be looking at providing smaller planes on a cross-flying basis to land, including On the Hornfjord. This could help a lot with the distribution of tourists, as well as reduce the pressures at Keflavík Airport and increase international security. At that time, a greater proportion of the Environment and Transport Committee on the Horn of the Airport in view of the implementation of a proposal for a five-year transport strategy for 2019-22023 and a proposal for a resolution of transport plans for 2019-52033. Said the other part was supposed to use smaller planes on international flights to land on the Hornfjord. This could be of great help in the distribution of tourists, as well as a reduction in the pressures at Keflavour Airport and increase flight security, as the research committee of transport accidents has noted in their reports. At that time, a greater proportion of environment and transport committees, in their Committee on Transportation Program 2020/20234, felt that the need to classify the country's airports after need and flight activities would facilitate the implementation of the air policy developed by the government. The original ideas of a major part of the Committee were to classify the airports that constituted a foundation of airports in the country for smaller aircraft, including their Hornground airport. Transporters stress the importance of making a quick examination of the use of horn-field airports with sufficient equipment and facilities for international flights, using smaller passenger planes and planes on a ferry flight to further build up the Hornfjordur and the area and contribute to the further development and growth of Lakejörgland. I reiterate, as I told you earlier, that the debate over Hornofground Airports, which has been conducted here during the previous council, has become two or three last approved transport programmes, as well as entering air policy and elsewhere. The drop'll break down because the stone, we've made it. But something else has happened at this time, e.g. has increased fish farms and other food production in the East, and if the project is successful, it is never to be known unless it also results in direct freight transport from this area and many of it. It can also be a big part of distributing tourists, increasing flight security, and reducing the pressures of the airports, as it is here, both in Reykjavík and in Copenhagen. They were crowded just before Covid. Even if a full step has not taken, you just need to examine the ways, whether it is possible to get started in some step. We need to assess the cost of this. Perhaps you can open on and have some general reserves at first so that you don't have to build a large border monitor or a infrastructure at the airport. Now these planes can land, but they have to apply each time. There is a process that cannot be advertised or become a general knowledge of the flight; it must give some minimal opening to begin with and increase as things develop. I hope so. The Environment and Transport Committee is taking the matter well and able to complete it now and that the secretary of transport and rural management are covering their Ministry and its institutions to work on this. It should be possible to start this work even though this council resolution proposal is not fully completed here at the General, where it has been observed during the flight policy and in previous transport programmes. I strongly emphasize that this project will be carried out, whether it is time for the Senate resolution now or not, which I hope we will naturally do. But I encourage a transport and environment committee to end the matter now that it has arrived at least Five times before the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u137	Madam President. I'd like to start thanking an executive, huh? paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason, for this excellent proposal that has been made several times and is long since agreed. This is an important matter, like a whale. A senator entered, and he is especially important to the inhabitants of the Horne, as well as to all citizens of the country, because air travel in the region is an important means of transport. Of course, in this regard it should be noted that if used to a greater extent, air travel would bring relief on the highways of the country. It is urgent to reduce this pressure because we know that conditions on the highways of the country are sadly not good enough, and the need for construction in many places, and it will take a long time and is costly. At the same time, we can build up at airports, such as on Hornfjords with relatively small costs compared to the construction of the highway system. Another interesting point in this statement is that new technology, known as GPS, is now much simpler and cheaper than technology used. Of course, it could be introduced onto the Hornfjord. An example of this is that a pilot who arrives at a flight in which this new technology is available can turn on track lights on the runway, etc. From the plane he's flying from. It also matters in this context and gives increased hopes that international flight will be approved at the Hornground Airport. So technology has changed a lot and is working on this. We also need to keep in mind definitions when it comes to airports, such as those on the Hornfjord. There is the wearer on the runway from the so - called claws we know from the road system here on the country. This definition has caused misunderstandings abroad, in which some think it is a malar airport. This should be considered because the use of clothing has brought good results. So this definition needs to be corrected. I'm celebrating this proposal and I'm one of her transporters, hoping she'll get a course because it's a very important matter for this area. In addition, this is a security issue because it is important to the hospital flight and to the general air travel in the area. It is also safe to mention that improved airport facilities, e.g. in a village monasteries and a Viking in the Valley of Moriscos. And so I'll only be making my way to the Valley of Micre, there's an airport that can be very effective, for example. on a nature problem. We know that the Viking community in the Valley of Moriscos has the potential for Cata's eruption, and people have to leave their homes very suddenly, and there might be a way out. Then the airport would be a lot of security. I think it's a reasonable investment, not so costly. I understand that costs about 160 million. K. To put a tear to the airport at the Viking Valley and, in fact, in a local church gang, as well. These are not large amounts, Madam President, compared with what needs to be done in the transport system throughout the country and in the construction of the road system. For example, there is a quick way to improve transportation to the areas, both in a local church monasteries and a Viking in the Valley of Myr. If this proposal becomes a reality and gets a track, as I say, it's long-term and funding comes along, then it begins with more use of air travel in this area in the Southern District as well as in the whole country. I really hope this proposal has a track record. There is a big interest in the Santa Society of Hornland and the Southland tourism that the Horn of the Ground Airport will be opened to international flights, and there is also a big security issue, as I mentioned earlier, that it will be opened up as such. The report of the research committee of transport accidents says that opening the airport before international flight would increase service with increasing traffic. The report, published on October 29, 2000. Because of a plane crash in Tuluakoti, June 2019, it is noted that fuel could not be found on the Hornfjord, as the pilot had planned, and that plane ran out of fuel that caused it to crash, and unfortunately three died in that tragic accident, both pilots and one passenger. Thus, security is a very important part of building up the Hornfield airport, increasing the service, and opening it to international airports. It is important for tourism and for the region, as well as for new employment opportunities. So there is a number of factors that recommend opening up the airport for international flights. Madam President. Finally, I thank you for this suggestion, and I hope she gets a walk.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u138	Madam President. I'm going to start by saying most of the things I had. In his fine speech, a senator spoke. There is good reason to speed up this suggestion and take the steps needed to make it happen. Of course, there are advances in flying technology, and one was presented in speech. A senator, i.e. to turn on runway lights by entering a specific frequency and sending messages. First of all, this technology is not new. It's actually very old, but it's widely used in Iceland, e.g. on Hellu, and is very useful. But in the case of the Hornground Airport, it's not necessary because there's fine tarmac lights, PAPI lights, etc., so this is actually not necessarily useful there. On the other hand, there are a number of useful things at the Hornground Airport. It may be mostly ILS systems that are incredibly expensive and complex, etc. Somehow, though, the cost of doing these things has to go down and build safer runways. I just wanted to say this because this is what happened in another very good speech. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, son of Thorin. I agree with the core of his messages. There's an opportunity to do much better. It's about security, especially the ones that are coming from outside, and that's where we can do good things.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u139	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. Now I know that he has a good knowledge of this class because he is, yes, a trained pilot, isn't he? A private pilot's test has a point. A nice senator and I congratulate him on that. He knows this technology a lot better than I do. But with regard to the flight technology and the lighting of track lights, etc, this was mentioned in the context of the expense saving technology. The cost is often seen when you consider expanding your flight course and then naturality comes into operation, which can reduce the cost of these substances. It is very important that all of this be kept in mind. But I feel that in this discussion, because I mentioned the airports both Viking and in a church town's dress, we have not thought so much of it from the point of view that the pressures on the highways of the country can be reduced. By the time the tourist tide reached its limit, highway 1 especially had become high - pressured, and with alone bridges, etc. In this way, it is also a matter of security that we should look into because it is important to all of us. But it is natural to have these airports available and in good condition. It has just been set up with a very good view flight from the Hornafground Airport and has given good results, as well as the experience of tourists. There are many opportunities to go along with this, and I'm just hoping that, Madam President, this time they will accept and accept the proposal that has been widely moved here and a long time to become reality. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u140	Madam President. I was going to skip the second answer because I thought it was over, one thing at a time. A senator almost skated inside, and I find it so interesting that I can't set myself up to mention it. Iceland is one of the few European countries that do not participate in the European space science community. There's a definite opportunity for us to use satellite correction technology that could help us in a number of ways in Iceland's airports, e.g. for the D.A., but not as much as public and plans flights and so on. It actually has something to do with it. If we were a part of Europe's space science community, i.e. At the European Institute of Astronomy, it would be possible for us to set up a correction station in Iceland that would make it possible for these flights to land very accurately, even in no psychic direction. It's an example that has even. Come up in the Western Islands, where there has been a lack of fog in the Marine Corps at the Hammer rather than at the airport. This has been suggested for expensive operations, such as building a helicopter. But it is already a considerable part of the home island's surface that goes under an Air Force and may not be necessary to build a helicopter in addition if we could do much simpler things, such as walking in a European community on space research and obtain accurate correction on satellite status information so that the runways can be used even in foggy. I think it's a good motif. I hope so. A senator would agree with me.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u141	Madam President. I hereby recommend a synonym to allow local communities to collect environmental charges. The motion has come from me and what. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, which says: The Council of Environment and Resources concludes to hide transport and local government ministers as agreed with the Environment and Resource Minister to assess whether and how to provide local authorities with permission to collect environmental costs. The secretary will report the matter to the General at the spring council in 2021. This is not the first time this proposal has been made or comparable, but I think it may be safe to say, Madam President, that the proposal received quite a bit of an unexpected attention when it was submitted, some of which were of interest, perhaps due to a misunderstanding. They believed that it had some kind of access to the private car and that sort of thing. But it isn't, as I've said before in public areas, the limit to the use of private cars is probably the best friend of those who want to drive around in private cars because they'll get a lot more space and a lot more space to drive through the roads. In many parts of the Western world, in recent years the view has increased that environmental awareness begins in the community. Such community consciousness is necessary in order to become the means that move communities to change policy in the important environmental issues. Many routes have been taken abroad to increase awareness of environmental factors. These include the classification of garbage, which has been introduced widely in Iceland, as seen by members of Congress, to the limitations of automobile traffic in downtown areas, as well as in urban areas. in several capitals and major cities of the Northlands, and parking costs are naturally very widely collected. There are many of them in large cities abroad, and even nothing so large is much bigger than here in Iceland. In some places, pollution taxes are taken, as it were, to some extent that we have begun to do so in Iceland. There are then many foreign sources to be found in rural areas to collect the payments for car use and thus to be counted for a long time. In Iceland this thought is still a bit low, despite significant progress, e.g. In the classification of garbage, as I mentioned, it's in many societies. But as discussed during the day, there are exactly the same rules that you can imagine what they can be turned. But let it lie in between things. Civilization due to e.g. car ownership not known or barely. There are parking fees in Reykjavík, and there is a small amount of authority on the law to collect dues, which entered the 2017 traffic laws, otherwise very little authority. Of course, since then the rural communities collect punitive fees as they have been doing for a very long time. In fact, rural society has failed, if you can say so, to stop using private vehicles. Iceland is among the countries where private cars most per population. In Iceland there are over 800 cars or vehicles per 1,000 inhabitants. We are fourth place in the world in this respect after the tiny kingdom of Monaco, and I can't remember where the other kingdom was, and then there's New Zealand and America beyond us. So there are more vehicles in Iceland than Iceland, who have a car test. Public transport has provided some relief for this policy, i.e. The emphasis on the private car, as well as other environmentally friendly travelers. As a result, as I mentioned, in many Icelandic homes, there are two cars and some even more. This calls for enormous costs for rural communities, since, as one knows, some have studied the organizational affairs of rural society, it is assumed that on average, there are three parking lots for every car registered in the rural community. That's the criteria for most larger rural areas. They see the high costs involved. It also comes with maintenance on the streets and streets, land use as mentioned, and other car - related activities. Air and noise pollution from cars is also well - known, and there is particulate pollution, which I have ever discussed in the platform before. A recent road generation report shows that most of it is due to nail ID, one of these factors, at least to larger rural areas, which could be affected if the rural communities had these devices. The purpose of the proposal is to consider whether and how to authorize your community to collect environmental expenditures. There could be more factors than car ownership, e.g. use of substances that can cause environmental contamination within the rural community, they may collect some fees for it, or due to some activity that could harm the environment, these could be subject to specific charges. Farmers are responsible for a wide variety of services to citizens, often linked to environmental factors and design of the environment. The use of land as a result of automobile use is one of the things we would have to look up until then, but as I mentioned earlier, it was absolutely impossible for the rural communities to react in any way until the traffic law was changed, but there is now limited clearance for them. Still, she's considerably limited. Governments have set a goal for combating climate change, and many rural communities have set out for a lack of carbon. At any given time, the Minister of Environment and Resources is responsible for its implementation. Therefore, it is important that transport- and rural Ministers consult with the environment and resource minister are active in these products. Doing so can be more successful in reaching the goals that a person has in mind. With a warrant for environmental stress, rural society would be able to improve the environment and strengthen its subsidies. The movers of the proposal believe that it is important for the Minister to investigate this possibility in the present legal environment. I only mentioned the role of local society, and only earlier tonight, we were discussing the expansion of the unit management phase and how we could do so through uniting and expanding rural society. To provide Community authority to manage their affairs, let's say, more clearly and more influence environmental factors through biopolluting factors, may be important. I also mentioned the public transport, and let's see that the rural areas in the capital area are now making an enormous contribution and a great deal of cost in cooperation with the State to build a very large amount of transport reform, i.e. the end of the line. It is in harmony with this thought that the rural areas in the capital area will have to start thinking about how we're going to make sure that we can all live here and breathe air and how we really can get between places. This does not happen by increasing the number of cross-cutting events, nor does it happen by increasing the number of cars. This does not happen by placing more traffic signals or by changing speeds. As a result, we begin to think of how we are going to let this city's population trash like a city society. I may be a little out of the material in this, Madam President, but I believe it is important for the locals to be considered worthy and able to provide these sources and in any way. I trust that for such work, these two advisers could be careful. I suggest that the case be referred to an environment and transport committee, if considered carefully, unless it goes to the Economic and Business Committee where this is the possibility for collections. But I'll let Mrs. President decide and hope that the matter has a good discussion and progress at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u142	The president may tell you that the Agency has suggested that the situation be addressed to the environment and transport committee. There must then be another suggestion if a messenger asks for another.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u143	A respectable president. Well, maybe I'm not going to thank you. A senator for bringing a tax proposal, but thank him for bringing this subject here and for the pleasure of coping with it. I'd appreciate it if he only explained what kind of fees are basically adding on the top and what goals they're really going to reach. I think it's a little open, environmental charges. Also, parking costs, punitive costs, environmental costs, are said to be payable to each farm member of a rural society, and thus to be paid on streets and parking lots. Not that it's missing, at least not in the capital area, the built-in fees. And there is no need for carbon, credit tax, and goods, and everything on the cars as they pollute. Then there's the authority to take the parking lot to fix it. I'd like to know what it really adds. Is there a record for each team member to collect from the units registered in that rural society? In the capital city, many of those who work there have only moved to the Kraga Company, or even to neighboring communities, such as my community, Grinsavík, a large number of people in the capital area have moved there. Will those who have to travel with cars, because they don't have public transportation between them, not pay the price, just the inhabitants of each rural society? I'd like to get a slightly clearer picture of what we're talking about here and if it's not possible to get this out of the way for people to use other methods of transportation than a fossil fuel truck.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u144	Madam President. I'm going to thank you. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur, Árnason's son, completely for the counter-sponsored answer. The Senator asks what the cost is and what the goals are. I can take an example that may not fully explain, but to some extent. About 20 years ago or so, I lived in the United States of America and was studying. In the suburbs I lived in, the country society had the custom that it collected expenses from every car each year, which was registered in the local community. In addition, the state also collected a fee that was paid annually. In the case of my community, the price was about $1,000 on a car. That was 20 years ago. I'm not suggesting that there be hundreds of thousands of dollars. the cost of car ownership, however, is a matter of having equipment in your hands, whether it is an incentive or a massage, as one can say that such a price is, in order to encourage you to use environmental travel. Farming is only beginning to take that step, e.g. by reducing reimbursement for public transport. It's very important. I feel, however, that it's going a little slower than I would like. Any route that's gone, at least Since I know and this has been done, the price has been taken by automobiles registered in the local community. That's perhaps most because of at least has been relatively difficult to figure out exactly where the car is used, but everyone knows where it is registered, that is relatively hard information, let's say.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u145	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. I have to admit that I don't quite see it coming, perhaps for the reasons where such a price is most likely to be new to the rural population in the capital area, in the urban area, where traffic costs are larger and the largest uses are. Since there is so much movement between rural communities, it is possible that only some people in the capital area could pay environmental fees but others would not. But partners do. A gentleman in the left green speaks a lot about the importance of nature and climate I also do, and that we're getting lots of tourists and around tourists is our future construction, and that's why we're supposed to protect nature, and I'm going to take over it. But tourists all travel in rental cars. For becoming ten years, one good man informed me that there were 25 rentals written in Keflavík, just there. That's outside the biggest rental. Much of that car, and that may be the reason why there is no more use of rental cars than here, are driven by the tourists. We wouldn't get that price from them. Then we'd be paying civilians for the use of others other than their own private car, other than the people of that rural community. There's one thing. Then there's another question I'd like to come along to the end that has something to do with this. Counts 'em out. If all the cars were to become electric cars or hydrogen cars so that they would become environmentally friendly, does not a member of the environment make the trip to the environment? Is that not environmental?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u146	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Árnason Aarson for the counter-sponsored. I'm going to answer the second question first because the senator knows the natural answer. Of course, environmentally-friendly all cars run for electricity, but all cars run for carbon fuels. It's, for example. one of the things that could easily be considered in this regard, whether the bank's earnings may vary depending on what the car was like. It connects you back into what I and what I had. There's no doubt a senator has ever talked about before, and we know that we're naturally paid for the use of cars, for maintenance of the roads, and for maintenance of the road system will gradually change as we cross into environmental energy sources and no longer have the carbon tax, the fuel costs, and the oil costs to sustain our roads. As for the tourists and the rental car rents, it must be a natural matchfish for these rents to be charged with charge, where the cars would be registered. The nature of the situation, according to one estimate, would appear to some extent in the payment for the renting of cars. I count at least It's not unusual for lawmakers to be in there just like others. But this is just one of the important things to look at, and it's so important to try to figure out how to use these taxes, let's call them, to direct people's pattern of consumption to serve the environment better than we do today. I welcome the senator's interest in trying to figure out how to do this, and I'm afraid I will.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u147	Madam President. Thank you. Ólafur Þór, the son of Gunnarsson, for carrying her in the house. It's like meeting an old friend on the subject because she's not served for the first time. This is the sixth time it is presented, and it is now one question: Why does the senator feel that it is not a better course than the example, as good as it is in many ways? Here is an urgent plan that is strongly associated with today's community discussion. It correctly states that these issues exist in the Western world and that increasing environmental awareness begins in the close - up community. But what is the opinion of a merchant of the payment of the local community when it comes to such burdensome expenses, or environmental charges? Does he feel that there is an understanding? How does he measure it? These are not only traffic costs or automobiles; these are many other costs. But in this respect, I agree with what. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason, we should choose positive motivation, upbuilding motivation, something that causes people to share in such an important assignment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u148	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðjón's Brjánsson for his counter-sponsore. Now I'm afraid to tell what the senator was discussing, why such a good proposal won't get a faster payment and more career in the council. This may be because there is always fear, including fear. In Icelandic society, calling for a change in currency or a reversal of a previous course. In this regard, such an effort may be proposed not only to be considered but also to refer to the discussion in the community, as the senator introduced it. A talk about the environment today is very much in the community, and it's nice and you can try both of these with different suggestions. I think the public's understanding that the environment is not free and that wholesome air and beautiful environment are not continually increasing. In this regard, there is a considerable understanding of why such a course might be wise. But there is something else that we, perhaps holding up a conversation in society, should do more, that is, consider how much payment is involved, as the senator mentioned. It's not only car owners paying for cars but also everybody else, i.e. Those with fewer cars pay exactly the same thing to the community. By saying that it's all right for those with four, five cars to pay as much as those with only one, you're actually letting those who have one car pay for the rest.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u149	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for excellent answers and speculations. This suggests that there may not be a long way in Iceland, but there are some types of garbage that are actually exemplary in a local community. But are waste management expenditures as part of what is referred to here as environmental costs and approaching them in a special way? Then there are traffic related environmental charges. This would change the environmental costs from country to rural, densely populated areas and areas of distribution. How does the senator picture this? Committees were parking expenses or so - called parking areas. For example, does he feel that we are going to make a special contribution for parking outside our home? Then I wanted to hear him go a little deeper into how he actually collects the local environmental fees, in what form it will be, what will be the point of taking the traffic into it but also other factors at the same time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u150	Madam President. I thank the senator for the answer. Waste management expenditures would not be part of this, as waste management costs are already permitted. They're charged with the real estate fees. As a result, I find out what would be the most reasonable way to collect these items, and it would most likely be with real estate because it is a system that is already being used by rural society. I'd like to state that this might as well be a discount to those who might have just one car, as an example, a further charge to those with three, as an example. Yes, I suppose this would vary from region to region, so the idea is part of the ability of the power of rural society to decide for themselves how to earn money. The senator asked if he should pay for the repair at home. No, I suppose that's what. A senator, like most inhabitants of this country, paid the price of street work so that it is not needed. It's not the cost we're talking about, it's already paid. But if, for example... The senator lives somewhere where the community attends so that no or no use of nails, such as in most parts of the capital area, he may have to pay a price for choosing to wear a nail bag on his car. It's one way. Likely, it would always be the way for a certain amount of money to be set on the nails. But whatever the way, this is a device for the rural population to be able to manage their environment more accurately than they do today, using currency or inquisitors to encourage citizens to pursue a way of life's environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u151	V.E.G. President. I'm here to present a council proposal for academic theory. At my suggestion, the entire party of the Central Party is with me. The suggestion reads: The General concluded to hide the Minister of Education and Culture to establish an electronic application into a joint site, called educational instruments, for studies in stately high schools. Ministers provide a group of professionals with educational skills so that they have access to information about which courses are available to them, enabling them to apply for different courses or schools, and setting priorities for applications. Then the Outfit will consider whether to improve education aptitude for high school as well as how best to develop a common education puzzle for college and college applications. The Minister of Education and Culture presents the results of the work group to the General Assembly no later than September 2021.◯ This proposal was previously submitted to the 150th legislature but failed to fit into the chamber. It is primarily designed to be for the benefit of the Education and Culture Ministry, the State Department, high school, and students. The current system allows candidates to send a number of applications directly to the university, which makes it difficult for them to estimate the number of students and take appropriate measures. At the same time, candidates may find that they do not get into the study they applied for when it is too late to apply for other courses or to study at other schools. It would contribute to the transparency of education, where there would be opportunities and demand in certain schools and courses. An electronic application system for high-school and university studies is available in different forms in neighboring countries, e.g. correspondent in Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Finland, and the Netherlands In Denmark all college applications are sent electronically to a common site. Candidates need to study the schools and the courses they offer before applying for the information on the special website of the Children's and Education Ministry. Transporters estimate that the dance system can be a model for Icelandic education. On the DG website there is an electronic application page, i.e. Education, since students can check into high school and set priorities. There you can find information on going to high school, as well as a list of high school schools that offer high school education. This suggests that the staff will be assigned to review this application procedure to see if improvement is needed and that they also create a similar system for the university and look for ways to connect these two systems together. Despite significant changes in the current course of college applications, it is the opinion that such a portal would be of great benefit. Education would enhance the student's perspective on education, as well as a view of a school over the student population, which would lead to an increased sense of ability and thus make the school business much easier. I assume that the motion is to what? The General and Education Committee after the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u152	President. At first, I'd like to say that I celebrate and support this case. It's very Colombian to see this case from now on, because when I was working at the National Institute of Education, I was trying to make this exactly. It was then the Pelteus project, comes from the European Union, a project to gather all the courses and tools available in high schools and universities in Iceland. I completed the work that combines all these data and logs into a database, Ptolemy, a panEuropeanist, and is for all schools in the European Union. The data are available, and then there was more plan on these data than I had when I arrived at the council, and here I stand and recommend that I continue with what I was doing before I arrived at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u153	V.E.G. President. It was a pleasant answer. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson for that. I remember that when I lived in Denmark, I was able to visit just those Web sites where I could study. And there's another thing in this, too: As the algorithm is now, it depends on the number of student funds the college buys, and there's a lot of resistance in this. I know this would benefit everyone, i.e. schools, especially students, or prospective students. I really hope this is going to work, and I expect a great help. A senator in order to resolve the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u154	V.E.G. President. I'm here to recommend a proposal I've recommended before. This is the third time I've tried it, and with me there are all members of the Central Party. It states that the General concluded to hide transport and local government ministers together with financial and economic secretary to prepare a legal bill that will require measures that will allow the fuel prices in international flights to be equal between flights. According to law on the normal transport cost of oil products, No. 103/1994 should be equal to the rate of transport of oil products as detailed. The goal of the law is to ensure that fuel prices are the same all over the country to balance the conditions of living and the competitive status of companies. The transport costs, however, are not relevant for export fuels, which fall under fuel for international transport. Thus, there is more expensive fuel in the international airports in Akureyri and Egls than in Cheflavík and Reykjavík. The proposal suggests that transport and rural Ministers in agreement with the financial and economic secretary of the legislation prepares a legal bill to change the price of international fuel to be equal. Such a change would strengthen the position of tourism in the country and contribute to the distribution of tourists across the country. I expect the motion to be made. The Environment and Transport Committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u155	V.E.G. President. In itself, this suggestion to add is not much; it is very good and needed. But I wanted to follow it only because I thought about it, I think it was in 2015 or 2016, when an experiment was to fly straight from the front of Egls. There was nothing to be done with it, including Because the gas prices were higher in the East than in Cheflavík; and in fact, there was something else - a situation to receive visitors. But much of this was that fuel costs had not been equal, so you feel that this proposal should totally run through. She's moved here for the third time, but she hasn't made any progress. In the future, we assume that tourism will return to flight, and tourists will begin to flock to the country and the commercial wheels will have their turn. Then it must be something like that. We are always talking about the fact that tourists should be distributed around the country, and many things have been done in it, e.g. in terms of the reception of tourists and other means, hotels and tours, and all the well - being services that have been offered. But it hasn't been recorded, so I wanted to come up here to follow up and point out that this is absolutely a matter of course and should be working very fast and safely.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u156	V.E.G. President. I'm here making a proposal for a hearing about a community girl. All members of the Central Party are with me on the motion. The proposal states that the General Council of Ministers of Social Affairs in cooperation with Education and Culture Ministers and Tourists, Industrial and Neothelization Ministers is to appoint a group against community-friendly policies in order to increase the bioavailability of those who do not speak Icelandic or use signed language for public service. Social Affairs and Children's Ministers Report to the General Results of the Work force no later than December 2021. This proposal is made for the third time and remains unchanged, she has not received a material discussion in which it appeared late for the last two times. The number of people living in this country whose language is different from that of Icelandic has increased greatly in recent years. At the same time, there has been a great lack of community girls, i.e. those who are involved in interpretation within the social and business system and within the medical system. Such interpretations are necessary to ensure the justice of those who do not speak Icelandic in their dealings with governments. One of the problems immigrants face in Icelandic society is a lack of knowledge of the administration and a lot of people do not know where to look for the necessary public service, such as health care or other social services. Part of the problem is due to language problems and increased access to interpreters, which would greatly help this group to understand the administrations and thus help their adaptation to the community. Similarly, sign - language girls would improve the status of the deaf in their dealings with the government. Access to interpreters would also greatly improve the circumstances of employees in public service, which often find it difficult to render the right service when clients do not understand Icelandic. Increased access to interpreters is also a result of promoting Icelandic as an official language in Iceland. The increase in number of immigrants has resulted in a greater level of communication in public institutions in English. The service of an interpreter is not only useful for those who do not speak Icelandic or use sign language but also available to public employees by means of an interpreter who still share the information in the language they understand. There has been a great demand for interpreters within the tourism service, and many interpret from the female community because of its activities. It is necessary to meet this trend and make a workgirl more attractive. For example, there may be ways to increase the number of interpreters and improve their education, but increased effectiveness of the ministry, e.g. with official access policies for telematical services. There is no measuring guide to a suitable community girl, and it is important to consider carefully how to ensure that they provide with their services as the most accurate information. The right to interpret is guaranteed in various specials, and there are, for example, 5. patient rights, No. 74/1997, ensuring patients who do not speak Icelandic or use signed language correctly for interpretation, including the health information and the planned treatment. Under such circumstances, it is important that an interpreter be able to explain his ability to do the job and his responsibility for providing accurate information. In the review of the Alliance of translators and the interpretation of a proposal for Congress resolution to promote Icelandic as an official case in Iceland, which was later adopted as a Parliamentary resolution of No. 36/149, it is noted that serious cases have occurred abroad, in which interpretation was incomplete, and misunderstandings or inability to interpret have resulted in death. The girlfriend has been taught to be an adjunctor or a primary high school student at the University of Iceland, first as a three - year - long training aid in 2009-2010. The study has not been available for the past few years because of lack of funding and because it has not been enough to attend. The association has also been taught at the High School of Education in cooperation with a multicultural community. It is important that the meetings lead to ensuring funding so that the University of Iceland can continue to develop and improve the study of university interpretation and examine the possibility of implementing community girls to school in the country. At the same time, it is possible to consider whether other university, especially outside the capital area, can be encouraged to start teaching into a community girl, including sign - language girl, to some extent. I expect the motion to go to what? At the end of the discussion, the welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u157	Mr. President. Here is a very important and essential matter, and I am very pleased with it and proud to be one of its transporters. It is clear to everyone that in Iceland, the number of people speaking a language other than English has increased greatly in recent years. The flea keeps growing and increasing in number the languages that are occurring, as you say, in society. We often find it, and sort of every day, that those who are unable to express themselves in Icelandic, and may not be slippery in the international language of English, and who do not have access to interpreters, do not have licenses in service. We can take such simple actions as going to a clinic and have to explain to a doctor what is going on with you. If people are unable to communicate in Icelandic or international languages, they are not harmed and could be harmed. We have also noticed in the Covid epidemic that it has been very necessary - we burned ourselves at the beginning of the epidemic not to be quick enough to present information in other languages. There is no small number of people we're talking about, Mr. President, who is here and has a different language than English as first language. It is likely that there are some 50,000, 60,000 people, or about 50,000, 000, 000, 000 people. 12% of the population, I think I've seen that number recently. If this case worked out so that the uncontaminated cases would be taken into account to correct the wrong that I would so like to call, it would change the situation completely and would also completely alter the legal status of the large group that is not capable of expressing itself well in Icelandic language. I wonder in itself that there is not much interest in this matter, there are few who have seen fit to attend the discussion, and we are just the two of us, I think, to answer. I can't believe that's because members of Congress are not usually interested in the matter. Another question is now discussed and scraped out in the hall that you think there are a lot of good people here who wanted to help with the proposal. But I take it that people may have only been sleepy, that's been very late in the day, and that's why they went away from sharing in this discussion. As in the past, it is possible for the middle class to take a stand and offer suggestions that matter, in matters of importance, rather than being here with some kind of foam. I hope that all the good people in this room welcome this matter when they come to the committee and come strong in the future. I hope the case isn't going to be put on a committee, it's too big to do that. I sure hope that the matter will come back into this hall for the rest of us. and will finally agree here at the council. There are many good people here who have the interests of this large group. For people of all sorts, it is now possible to be remembered and to support this progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u158	Mr. President. I'm moved to add words to this fine language, but I'm actually involved with it. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir River Daughter, et cetera. I think it's a very important thing. A large number of people move from country to country and live in a new country where another language is spoken, such as here in Iceland. Iceland is difficult for the foreign people who have come here, taken up residence, and worked with us in the country. Of course, it is very important to welcome these people, and one aspect of them is providing them with as much access as possible to the service we render to the country for our own citizens. Of course, we are to welcome these people in a similar way and give them access to the same ministry. People who do not speak the language spoken here are prevented from attending in many cases the public ministry that they have the right to, in all kinds of government assistance and guidance. It is part of the adjustment of the people who choose to live here, part of our helping them, and helping them to understand as soon as possible an Icelandic community so that they can take advantage of the quality that we feel will probably enjoy. Of course, people who contribute to community work, etc. Also able to enjoy the same things. The proposal assumes that a working group will be appointed to evaluate the growth of so - called socializing policy with the aim of increasing the bioavailability of those who do not speak Icelandic or use sign language for public service. I'm sure it's a good thing, and I have to agree with it. paritaprevir Sæmundsson said earlier that he was surprised that the senators would not come in line to recommend this fine suggestion. This matter is also good in that it promotes and supports Icelandic languages. I don't know any better than today there's been a discussion about Icelandic stuff, and how we could protect Icelandic. This is also part of the fact that those who come to the country will move on to live here and work with us, get this service, and thus be able to adapt to society more rapidly and possibly adopt Icelandic. This is part of the feeling of well - being and of being welcome and of the ministry they are entitled to. I'm most surprised, Mr. President, that no more members of Congress, more than in fact, should enter a torture stake because of this matter. There is not much more important in Western communities - since their communities have become very mixed with people who may not speak the native language, we should say it, talk - but to get them to adapt to the community to produce the quality and knowledge that they have. One part of it is that people in the country offer and show them at work by increasing their availability and improving their availability of the services they have in many cases a right to perform. I have the hope that the matter will be discussed in a committee and then returned to the Hall and that the suggestions presented here will be positive.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u159	Mr. President. I recommend a judicial hearing on the construction of high-tech garbage dumps. Transporters besides me are nuts. Councilmen Árnadóttir Kolbröndnad, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Bergþór Birgir, Þórarinsson, Bjöl Leví Gunnarsson, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Ólafur Ísleifsson, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, Sigurður Páll Jónsson, and Villasteinstein Sæmundsson. The motion says so, with the permission of the president: The Council concludes to hide the Environment and Resource Minister to investigate the practicality and potential for building a high-tech dump that treats most of all or all wastes that cannot be recycled in this country. A minister introduces the results of the survey on April 1, 2021, to the General Assembly of the United States. Mr. President. This is not the first time I recommend my proposal. This is the third time the proposal is submitted to the council. This proposal was first introduced to a 149th legislature but was not granted. The proposal was submitted again to the 150th legislature and joined the Environment and Transport Committee, which sent the case into question. Is the proposal now submitted, and then taken into account a statement received at the last donation of the matter at the previous council, a total of seven comments were received by the Commission's proposal, none of which were negative, and most of them were more positive to the proposal. The European Union gives a very detailed review, a positive view of the proposal, which, in many respects, says: ▪ Ecourge is an incinerator of waste through adequate environmental energy efficiency. Today, national infrastructure is lacking for incineration by energy efficiency, which is intended for recycling and export of waste to such combustion, as in the southern part of the country, probably does not change this fact. [...] However, the export of waste is contrary to the environmental principle that pollution issues should be resolved as close as possible to the source. In addition, by land wastes, financial resources, which are not used to build up in the local language. The export of waste energy is not only bickered by environmental and financial views but also by public interest in countries and countries. In those words, you might say that the main reason for the matter is the answer. The export of waste or the spread of waste cannot be considered a solution for the future. In addition, the news received from the Council of Waste and Waste, which, in principle, celebrates the proposal, comes from the Fräulein in which a local government feels that it would be wise to further examine the case, from the Fourth Western Union, which says that work has to take steps to reduce the amount of garbage and to avoid the short - term wastes involved in the rapidly increasing amount of waste to the present level. Then Stefán Guðsteinsson sent a review, counting the best incineration to treat cremating waste. The EEA sent a review of work beginning to explore the need for an incinerator. There have been a number of events since that proposal was proposed in the fall, Mr. President. A recent report made by the Environment Ministry and recently introduced a few days ago is called an analysis of the need for incineration sites in Iceland. When the report was presented, the highest was stated. Ministers that it was important to include information on the implementation of waste resources in Iceland, to further work on the cooperation of state, rural society, and private partners. The results of this report are, in short, that by the same condition, waste waste will be cremated from 190,500,000 tons a year, while setting the EU's targets on waste would likely have to burn some 90,000,200,000 tons of garbage that would need either to grow or burn abroad. V.E.G. The Environment and Resource Minister was introduced at a government meeting on 12th of January. The waste management policy was set at 2021 families. The above words have been given in the government's consultations under the title, toward a system of circuits. For some time, working on the shape of this policy has been under way. An overview of any action that the Ministry considers necessary for action is provided. In short, there are 24 operations on that list, but there is no plan to build a garbage dump. In 24 intensive economy operations, there is no need to start working on the construction of a garbage dump. A chapter in the outline chapter 3,4.8, entitled The Future Ship for Incineration, in the country, is presented. that, according to the waste triangle, it is preferable to take into account the expeditation of waste's disposition by energy efficiency rather than by waste management. It also states that by 2035 it will only be permitted to waste to a maximum of 10% of the household waste required by the European Union's 2018 Directive. This also provides an estimate of the estimated fuel demand until the year - 2030 as 40,000,100,000 tons per year, which I consider to be highly optimistic. Then the words say: The study discussed three potential targets for meeting the estimated fuel demand: 1) one large SV-incinerator area (incineration capacity of 90◯100). 5 reduction in waste resources spread across the country (the capacity of every person in the range of 1,400,78,000 tons per year) and 3) the export to incineration. The conclusion had to be that the latter might be a short - term solution, but it would not be advisable to view export as a future solution. We knew this a long time ago. We could have saved those thoughts. Of course, moving the waste to burn abroad makes no sense. Of course, it does not make sense to waste in the long run. This is what we've pointed out here in the halls of the Generals for many years, from the beginning of this proposal. But a better person is better off living, and it's good to have the same conclusion that this is no longer working. But then there must be something to do, so to speak. The report then states: Yet, one thing is fundamental. It is that the choice of waste management stations or stations should ensure that waste sources do not compete for waste in recycling roads. Recycling waste should not be allowed to enter the incinerator. Mr. President. They are terrified that there might be too much burning. It would be scary. How about today? We became all of it today, 200,000 tons a year. There may now be some way in which this might be a fear of burning something or incineration of all the garbage. There may be a gap. So says: It has been experienced in many countries that have built up wood for cremation and that it is necessary to learn from their experience. In other words, fear is that men might run ahead of them and burn too much. I don't think we have to fear that, at least not the first episode. Finally, the report states: In the meantime, it is important that rural governments, interested private members, and the state come together to discuss the future burning arrangements in the country and across the next steps in the case. Mr. President. The result? She's disappointed. In fact, it says that the Ministry is not going to proceed with this case, they expect someone to take this ball, farm members, privates, and continue with it. Our proposal to make this suggestion is that the government will lead this work and get partners to further this matter. The Ministry says pass, it really says pass, at least is the next step in uncertainty. In many ways I agree with those words, but there is a great need for leadership in this matter. That's what I'm suggesting here, that a minister would ask for a search on practicality and work by the incident in cooperation with rural society and interested people; in fact, a minister would lead this work and do it, go all the way. Now they've discovered what we thought we knew, i.e. that you cannot continue to export this information or grow it. That is why there is only a way to improve recycling. That's the best part. But we're always sitting by, based on the results of the report, at least 100,000 tons to burn. Likely, it is quite optimistic, and we may be left with more than that, but let's just call it a day. Mr. President. So there is still a full need to agree with this synonym, although it is necessary to admit that I am extremely proud of the Supreme Court. A minister should have taken steps in the direction suggested in the motion. However, I must point out that it is necessary to continue in this course. The next step is to examine the practicality of building a garbage dump. People have wondered, in the report I mentioned, where it will be best located, and whether such a station should be built in one or more places in the country. It is evident in these areas that size is one of the factors that are most important when the cost of the building is measured and so its size has to be determined. The surrounding areas where the waste will fall must also be considered, i.e. the most extensive areas, and where it is most efficient to use the energy generated by the incinerator, both electricity and heat. We live here on the southwest corner so well that there's enough heat and enough electricity. There's a possibility there's a way in between. There may be two cremations or location of a central area, perhaps not in the center of the capital area, but this need to be considered, of course. This is part of what we say, that these things shall be looked upon, that the prosperity of it may be looked upon. It is evident, too, that the total amount of burned - out waste in this country is never more than 100,000 tons, probably 120,000 tons or more. The change in consumption, consumption, and growth of population, as well as the growth in recycling, must be taken into account. So it is with the smallest quantity, as the future seems today. Mr. President. There is much more to discuss now than pollution from mankind and the fact that the mother of the earth is ill - equipped to handle the treatment we offer. One of the problems faced is what to do with all the garbage we leave behind. We'll be able to get away with it any more. Thus, we are constantly seeking ways to dispose of wastes, in order to minimize the consequences of nature. Throughout the centuries, it certainly was small to say that because the waste was easily broken down in the wild, as well as the vast majority of the scattered so that wastes just did not interfere with others. Then it came to the impression that the human race would be the easiest to bury garbage in the ground unless the sea was near because it was simply thrown into it and thus the problem disappeared. In recent decades, however, garbage production has changed dramatically, and wastes are not easily broken down in nature, as they may have been before when it was not available today. As technology progresses, and especially chemical treatments, the number of harmful wastes has increased dramatically, even to the point that it takes hundreds or thousands of years. We can't be known for that any longer, Mr. President, to waste our garbage or to export it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u160	V.E.G. President. I'm only going to follow this case, otherwise it went so far. paritaprevir Karl Hjaltason undatisited it very well, and he added the news from the last time he gave it about a report that was very interesting to listen to and interesting to read that report. One thing came to my mind when I was listening to the talk and, like, when I was reading it, but it's what we are, if we can put it that way, back to the point of sorting garbage. There is a great deal of value in classifying waste from that category of value. It's come to my mind because I'm out of the country, from a place we call the capital of Snæfellsness, Shinkisholmi, which has been classified as a great example of how to handle matters there. But then when I came down here to Reykjavík it's just a little bit, maybe I don't say it's an image, but there's not a lot of waste around here, and I think it's a big waste. What a valuable thing it would be to classify the waste much better and should not be too much of a business to implement it! Of course, it has to be made up, but it is not enough. Then there's garbage export. It is amazing and amazing that the suggestion to set up a waste - incinerator so that no waste will go abroad and that we will take care of our own waste business and all the waste will be stopped in a period of time. This is a major concern for humans, and it is proved that there is a great risk of waste disposal into the waste - disposal environment. It's very bad to think how close we are. I've told it in the front of a talk that the removal of garbage is like sweeping the trash under the carpet when you're cleaning up your home. And exporting garbage is like throwing the trash into your neighbor's yard. It's really just a mess and a way of doing things that we shouldn't be any further because this problem didn't happen yesterday. Hv. A senator handled the matter very well, and he also added what appeared in this report that was published during the winter or in the fall. I don't have very much to add, but one thing is, as shown in the talk by the dog. A senator, for example, that by burning waste of energy, both heat and/or electricity, and incinerators have grown to the point today that they do not pollute it as much as they did some year ago. I ran into a story in the News magazine last summer and it shows up, with the permission of a president: Each month about 1,500 tons of garbage are removed from the country, where it is burned for energy production. The export is conclusively confirmed. Waste has not yet begun exporting waste, but it is all possible that the company will do so next year. Prior to the end of 20203, in 2007, there will be a risk of garbage disposal in Eelfsnesi. The Icelandic container company has thus been the person who exports the trash to export and is burned abroad. This energy is used to produce electricity and heat. We're exporting garbage so that others can use the energy that comes from this. It's very sad, and as if we can't just take care of this ourselves, away from the fact that we're moving away valuables too. Why don't we say that there are three things? This is the third development of this proposal, and hopefully this time it will be successful and a minister will come up with new suggestions for our Council, and then it will be possible to get started as soon as these matters can be resolved.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u161	A respectable president. We'll discuss a synopsis proposal to build a high-tech dump. I'm very close to that, and I think it's very important that this country will be inhabited by a waste dump. So I'm glad to have a chance to discuss it. Many interesting details have been presented here, both in this case and in the talks of members of the Parliament. I think it only remains, and I must admit that I may not have managed to read through this, who should finance this. This may involve the responsibility of the rural society to run recycling stations and find ways to clean up waste. Actually, it's not an arrangement that I must agree with. I've said that, because we talked about the local community issues earlier today, that the rural communities are supposed to have close-up services. They're all too good at providing close-up services, and I think the rurals are so much better than the state in performing that service. In fact, having a service around a group of bullies, which is incredibly important, may well be on the shoulders of the rural communities, and most of the rural communities offer that service out, i.e. Waste management, however, controls a number of barrels and how it is handled. Of course, getting rid of nonrecycling waste does not have to be on the hands of the rural communities and is, of course, far from being close - service, which is best seen in the survival of the victim in Elfsia rather than just the capital area. That's why I'd like to suggest it. The Environment and Transport Committee, which will be given this matter under discussion, will only discuss whether and how to keep up with these issues in the long term. And I say this has been a long time in rural management, and I have managed the exact operation of a village in Eelfnes, where we are still running today, unfortunately, a place of protection. Of course, it is long time for that appointment to cease. But the problem is that no one seems to be willing to accept a post, and although we open here an important burning station, some part of the waste will always be needed. It could even be an ash from the incinerator station or the speed that comes from the gas and soil station that has now been built in Elfs. I think our journey in the last few decades is to find a future arrangement, just for the capital area, which, however, is the largest and the most powerful rural communities in the country, how it works best, to organize waste, and, on the other hand, to herd and recycle it, the gas and geological bases, and all, to show that this is, of course, a project that would be better handled by the State with a global view of the whole country. This refers to a whole country incinerator. Of course, it is quite normal to see the whole country in this form. The gas and geographing station, which has now been opened in Eelfunes and is sure to be one of the largest environmental steps in the last year and, of course, is very important, also had a very difficult birth. And if the largest and most powerful rural communities find it difficult to finance and achieve such structure, how can we expect some other rural community to bring in an incinerator and then some other community even in the local community? It's clear that this country has to be at least This one gas and geographer station that has opened in Eelfunes, at least one of the strong incinerators and also a place to make a living. I can agree with members of Congress who have spoken before that, of course, it sounds ridiculous, so I use that word, that we are exporting garbage to burning or other forms of incineration, and we know that the watch is not the future. But I'm also gonna use this opportunity to mention that I think we only need to consider whether we have the wrong motivation in our system because we're sorting plastic and paper, and it's really just an important resource, we're moving it all out to recycling. I wondered if there is no interest here, technology, knowledge, and willingness to recycle these things. As a result, it is unnatural that our system is installed in such a way that it really encourages export. I'm glad that this matter is taken up, and we have an opportunity to discuss waste matters that, of course, are very environmentally important. Of course, I'd be happy if there were a high-tech dump earlier than later. But then I also say, it's not enough to explore the cost, it needs to be built, and then we need to find out who's going to have the cost. The rural areas in the capital area have just built up a great gas - building base and, as if I've gone to my speech, would have made it normal for me to believe that this group was on the shoulders of the state. On the other hand, there are other lawsuits on the side of the state that would even be better off with the local communities. I'm just going to point it to what? The environment and transport committees as they deal with this issue are also looking to where the responsibility is, and whether it is wise to change it in the long term and that the state will handle wastes with a complete system for the whole country, which, of course, puts them on the environment when it comes to determining where and how our waste is recycled and recycled.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u162	Mr. President. Perhaps the discussion here will crystallize just how close Iceland is to waste. It was heard e.g. in the speech of the last speaker, who was surprisingly old - fashioned and so presented to his senses. A senator was only located in the tuna in his home and could not see the side of the town. In this suggestion, made here for the third time, we look over the village. We look for opportunities to build a strong dump around here that will make the whole country and above it produce energy for either electricity production or house warming or both in cold areas. There was a question about who should finance this, and I say again: This is a strangely old - fashioned attitude. We're now digging 200,000 tons of garbage a year, growling. This reminds me a little bit of what kids did here in den when they were asked to fix up in their room. Then there was a considerable temptation when some dust and junk were swept on the floor to slip it under the next bed. Then the trash disappeared, at least until the person was taken in the sack, and my mother took it in the back of the neck at the person who felt that it wasn't done well. Sometimes I feel like the treatment of garbage from Iceland is similar. We became the garbage, and it disappears, and we think: " Now it's just settled. Meanwhile, we're abusing groundwater and we're flogging the next place where the watch is made. There was talk of a village gas and landmaking station, which is certainly a major project. But I think that would have been very desirable, on account of the project, that the production had been completed. The use of methadone is significant or may be considerable, e.g. in the rural areas here in the capital area, who run a little bit of buses. I think it would have been gray-up if men had cut it together to reinvest the road, I know some of them have been put into electricity, thereby using this resource that has been costing so much to create. Very marked environmental steps, but as sometimes, the left hand doesn't know what the right hand is doing. On the other hand, we live in an Eelfunsibility area, perhaps floundering on garbage. You've seen pictures of a prick's hole in Murmur, where junk creeps over me and where wary and vermin are. A large wound in the landscape, where garbage is being harvested, is right at the moment of the Metose. We got caught up in the other day, unfortunately, there was a financial accident. It turned out that there is no proper place to burn that waste. The only station in Iceland that is prepared to do that was not possible, Mr. President. It's so ludicrous, and I'm not even going to mention the export because it's kind of too sad to discuss it here. I remember that the last discussion of this matter was here in the discussion of a senator with the left green. For example, when talking about incineration, he said that there is no burning of garbage in Iceland for toxic substances that release into the air and stink, etc. I said to the subject: Yes, but we're exporting garbage, including to the new dumps of Amager, near the middle of Copenhagen, where several hundred tons of garbage are being burned annually. But this fine senator of the left green didn't care because we had exported the foul air and the toxic air. Now this fine senator, I'm not gonna mention him here, he knows who he is, a part of a group that thinks he is globally on the environment. But this fine senator was also at home, unable to see oversee the town floor, so he was not even ready to lend a hearing about the possibilities, as this would be expected, to build a real dump and to burn waste as much as possible. There may be some cock or ash left when it's burned, but it won't be 200,000 tons a year, next I be sure it won't be. Here's a nice input from what. paritaprevir The Sigurður of Páll Jónsson, who lives in Stykkisolima To tell you the truth, every place born in Iceland may be a piece of Stykkislole, the longest of which has come to classify garbage. That's exactly what he said. A senator, that in classified garbage, there is money or value. I can tell you right here, I think I've been doing the same thing for the last few months, that one of the biggest hotel classes in Iceland went to classify garbage a few years ago. The amount of money taken from the company, the total volume, dropped by, if I remember correctly, 40%, just in a few months or months. This Swedish company made an assessment of the waste it divided and could come into value. Then perhaps it is time to answer the question that happened. A senator I was pointing out was stuck in the county back home: who's going to pay? Who is to be financed? Yes, it should not be that the classification could pay for any of these, and it should not be in the product of the incineration, i.e. the heat, the electricity, the secret value? Mr. President. At least, I think, we can all agree that we can't continue to work this thing. We cannot continue to waste here, since most of the population has already reached the limit of tolerability and many are being expelled because the amount of waste is so high that it has exceeded the original licenses that the sites had to eliminate waste. I say again, Mr. President, our position in the environment is divided by double skin. We're digging 200,000 tons of garbage, and there's not a lot of people who think it's a business. But we're banning plastic bags that are fragile from all the wastes available in Iceland. There was a proposal to recycle plastics, which are only started in Whos'generation and at the earth's heat, which is an enormous phenomenon. But then we have to watch that plastic isn't just plastic. There are so many types of plastic that it may not fall enough to recycle and some plastics is simply not enough to recycl it. Recycling that product is in itself and essentially a complex matter. Of course, all things are possible, and of course we should aim to do so. I've also been a follower of trying to recycle an aluminium that we export, aluminium into tens of thousands of tons. Sometime they tried to do what was, I think, still born. That doesn't mean, Mr. President, that we should stop and give up. Of course, we are concerned with these matters because we have all the opportunities here to do these things well. Well, we're isolated, and we're in a rather glassy country, so there's plenty of places where you can set up high - tech dumps without being a bother to people and cattle. I challenge members of Congress, even though they have not shown this interest, to help with the situation. The environment and transport committees will provide it quickly and carefully so that we can resume this discussion at the conference hall and then deliver it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u163	A respectable president. I have to apologize if I'm involved with the Central Party and I've offended myself. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn Sæmundsson who thought I was a very old-fashioned person. It's really fun if we can start talking and deal with it on that basis. But I have to say, in Mosfellsville, it's often good to be at home, and, in fact, we're so lucky to have a lot of towns or falls, and I'm used to walking on it, too, so I'm quite accustomed to see a little over. To say, I see, when I read the report better, that at the end of it, something is happening to the factors I was wondering about, which is the presence of the local society in these decisions. I don't want to hear it. A senator misunderstands my speech here, that I object to what is suggested here. What I was only talking about is that there would also have to be an overview of the wastes, because I don't think it can be deactivated, i.e. The garbage incineration and then the gas and farms, and the prices. These are three factors that we need to keep in our waste management. I'd like to ask that question, would you? A senator agrees with me that when it comes to waste management, it is normal to revise local and rural operations. In fact, that was what I was discussing in my talk, and the senator thought that I was stuck in the mold at home. This class may have been a bit of an experience in recent decades, at least for as long as I know it, people have been groping about it all the time. No one likes e.g. The localisation of its rural boundaries and the building of a gas and farm was a lot of effort, and rural society is having a hard time getting together on as simple a point as how it is normal to classify waste.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u164	Mr. President. The middle class and I are not quick to take offense, and the middle party is not a sneering party. But after all, I think I am. A senator is not far from each other in what we are thinking. This figure assumes that large incinerations will be undertaken in a survey. It must be large to be practical, and it is not on the chance of a community or even a Union member to build such a station. So I think it's in the suggestion, because there's a challenge to environmental Ministers to investigate this, that we're talking about something that would be the common responsibility of all of us to work on. I've sometimes told that story because I find it undeniably tragic, that in a small rural society east of the country, in an Thomson crash, it was incineration, and it kept warm at the gym and pool and in the local government office. It was closed down, Mr. President, because of digoxin pollution, and they were looking for digoxin everywhere; in grass, livestock products, everything that was promised. No digoxin was found in this. Yet, the incineration was closed. And what was done in return? Yes, they found a natural place somewhere between the Evil field and the Viking, if I remember correctly. Scrotums are very vast, and garbage is run to this hole on both sides, ranging from 200 to 300 miles, on diesel trucks to bury it in the sand. I don't know that there was any particular assessment of the environment of the sandland or the sandy hole in which it was planted. You're in trouble all over the country, and if you're having trouble in this area, you'll understand that there's still more trouble around the country where there's a small population. [[The president calls.]] That's why this suggestion is so urgent.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u165	A respectable president. Thank you. Senator. If I understood him correctly, he says that this is a normal work of cooperation. Actually, I was just asking. A senator would agree with me that it would be normal to transfer this party. Now I'm just talking about translocation. We've moved lawsuits from state to country partner, last of all, that was the cause of the disabled. But I've been thinking about moving the wastes in the opposite direction, from my own communities and across to the state. But I couldn't agree more. A senator that it is not possible to place it on local societies alone in such an investment as this one is suggested, especially in the context of the misunderstanding. We're talking about garbage incineration, which should be enough for the whole country or at least a large part of the country. Hv. A senator introduced only the sad stories we have of older garbage incineration. I remember them at least in the West, in the islands of Iceland, and in the town of the Church, or in the way of the Viking. I don't remember who it was. I'm sure they were back in their years, but many criticized it when the requirement was closed, and it put the local community in real trouble, and the problems have not been properly solved. Hence, it has been tragic to see that the capital area, of course, where most of its garbage falls, has also been accepting garbage from the western shores. There is, of course, tremendous driving, and there is a further increase in the fact that the paper or plastic or what it is going to transport somewhere to Europe for recycling. Then I think me and what. At least a senator can agree on the importance of the State's involvement in this matter. I agree, I find it irreformable that we're exporting garbage, unclassified garbage. But I also spoke of it in my speech that we might need to change our motivation for recycling, so here also prompts to recycle the precious raw materials that are involved. I specifically mentioned paper and plastic. Of course, it is true that you are right. A senator entered, that there is riches in the trash. [[The president calls.]] It can be in the heathouse at the high-tech incinerator station, there's a record at the gas and soil station, so it's certainly there, and we need to find ways to capture and handle it properly, especially from the environment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u166	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. Today, I have often felt that my rural society is considerably inferior to assignments, both those they have and have not received. I may be unreasonable, and this may be because there is not enough money left to carry out the work they've been given over the years. In this suggestion, I see no evidence that the rural communities such as this should be operating incinerators. Here is a suggestion to examine the opportunities involved. I remind you of the evidence that has come to recycle plastics in Iceland, there is one intellectual figure east of Whos making who has found a way to do it in the heat of earth's heat, as practical and well-equipped as possible. In this case, building a top quality dump dump, I can't better see, Mr. President, but there's an opportunity for investors and intellectuals who want to be remembered. Of course, we're all concerned, Mr. President, to take serious environmental steps. Because many people think so, and it's wrong, that the Central Party isn't a environmentally friendly category then, it's just that instead of having suggestions that little difference them, we'll make serious laws like this here that can really make a big difference for the country to the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-26-48.u167	Mr. President. First, I want to thank the members of the council who have expressed themselves on this subject. I am very pleased with the way I do things. I'm going to take advantage of some of my time to answer a few questions. paritaprevir In her talk, various thoughts, I might answer Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir's question later. I was going to talk about a lot of things like that. How much money we're making each year. I sent word to the Environment Minister of last Parliament, case No. 234, about waste sites. It found that 24 can be used as a license. It also states that there were well over 200,000 tons in 24 watch positions in 2018, so the scope is clear. It's an exception to decommissioned waste and so on, building residues e.g., it's not included there. We're talking about household waste and such waste. Of course, the primary markets were Elfs at more than 140,000 tons and then a prick's hole in Minirm, more than 15,000 tons, as well as the Louis of Coyozes where there were more than 20,000 tons in the same year. These are the main posts. There are also a few less watchpoints all over the country, and a total of these are well over 200,000 tons. It is also of interest, Mr. President, to examine the answers of the Ministry on Old Guards. In some parts of the country, there are well - known locations of 16 of them in the city of Reykjavík. Some of these sites are thought to be contaminated, potentially contaminated, and that is a problem we have to deal with at one time or another. In view of this, we cannot continue to waste our own waste, especially the waste that is late and bad, and we may even poison ourselves, as is often the case with human waste. It is also interesting to see an answer at the highest. Minister for my inquiry since winter, case No. 295 on waste export. It stated that in recent years we Icelanders have been moving over 120,000 tons out of the country. Now it wasn't shown in the highest answer. Minister of what waste this is, but I suppose, in terms of the quantity, it's perhaps the biggest piece of metal and something like that, because it's a lot of it. In most cases European countries and a small part of this quantity, a very small part, were toxic. Mr. President. This brings to mind the responsibility that we have on our garbage because in response to a minister, plans are being made to improve the monitoring of the waste route, where it ends. We remember the winter news and the recent year around where the garbage from Europe often ends. Where does it end? Some of this even ends in developing countries in Africa and Asia. Of course, we can't be known for it, if we found out that such a thing applies to the garbage we send off to Europe, that it really ends somewhere else. That would be quite a shock. As with these ships, for example, they end up somewhere in a garbage can in Asia. We can't continue this way, Mr. President. It's just that way. We cannot waste the garbage, nor can we export it. The only way to recycle, sort, and renew, is to burn the rest of our lives. That's right, as a matter of fact. paritaprevir Haraldsdóttir here, that there's always something to grow. Ignition today, the cutters, may return 10% of the amount burned, but it still comes as stop waste. The recovery of this amount has increased substantially over the past few years, both as sub-mabk and etc. so these percentages are always decreasing as technology moves forwards. But likely we will always have to grow something, and of course we will need to do so in a decent way at the very least cause for harm. Norway contains this ash, a so - called flying ashes that is left over from these stations, buried deep in old mines. We need to find a solution to this. Another thing I was going to come on was the death of animals. I directed a question to the highest level. Minister on that subject for winter, No. 295. In answer, it is estimated that each year an animal's body is about to grow at around the same time. 2,000 tons a year. Modern societies burn this waste, or if there is no risk of infection, it will be replaced. So we're still growling. It is pleasant to remember the news in the winter when sheep were infected north, and we did not have the power to burn dead bodies and they became north. Experts say that such infections in animals and animals can live for centuries so that we are merely creating problems for future generations. We've got to sort this thing out I also wanted to inform you about the amount of waste that comes from each person. The 2019 EEA annual report stated that we leave behind 712 pounds per person, 712 kg of household waste each year. That is very high compared to the average in the European Union. Of course, we'll have to do better in there, we're gonna reduce that ratio, we're gonna use more. Of course, a part of this household waste is just soil that can be made and that we too need to do better there and increase it. So there is plenty of work to be done. One aspect of this and a major part of it is that we walk all the way in this matter. I'm gonna use the rest of my time to answer a little thought. paritaprevir The Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir's Daughter. She asked: "Who's going to finance this, this is the local business? The suggestion that the state is leading this work forwards, complete a practical check, i.e. to your location, size, transportation, and various problems. The government has to lead this. I think there's hope that the rural community will take up this project because it's a complex problem, the rural communities are many and scattered, they're transporters, etc. I think it's supposed to be the government's turn to lead this, to bring together the communities, to private business experiences. Whether a building at such a station would bring about the establishment of the State is an idea worth considering, whether the State might build it. This needs to be examined. Then they would have to check to see if their rural communities were ready to pay for the incineration. Of course, other income options are selling energy, both electricity and heat, which may not be easy here in the capital area. But this is the work that we are doing, with this suggestion, pushing to go forward, and I believe the state should take this job further than it is now. Farmers or privates can catch the ball later, but we need to move on and lead it further. It's not an option to stop now. Better off by the government, huh? Senator. Yes, it may be better for the State to dispose of the garbage, growl, or burn because of local waste management. That's right. I agree with that. Maybe it's better with the government. Of course, for plastic recycling, this is very difficult. Although plastic recycling is in Whos, the types of plastic are so many that all recycling depends on simple recycling, i.e. that it is the same in large amounts. It's very hard to recycle most of the plastic, it's very farfetched to keep it. But plastic, Mr President, is really energy. Plast is energy and we should use it. I suggest that this case be sent to the environment and transport committee, hoping that there will be good coverage there.
