ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u1	Borist has received a letter from the chairman of Pirata's House of Congress about Olga Margrét Cilia, 1st Lipper on Pirata, Smoke. So, on Saturday, March 13, he sat down at the General Assembly as a deputy to Thorhlildi Sunna Ævarsdóttir and then a 2nd substitute of Pirata, in the district of Katla, Hólm Þórhildardóttir Thorhjörðurdótir, withdrew from Congress. Olga Margrét Cilia, who has previously taken up residence at the General Assembly, is welcome to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u2	Borist has received a letter from the following wanted-to-end advisers in order to provide written answers to queries: From the social and child-reversary for the request of a candidate. 918, on home remuneration and special support for social security and academic ages, from Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson; from the Environment and Resource Minister for the evangelism. 953, for the classification of waste removed from the country, from Karl Gauti Hjaltason, and finally from the Ministry of Justice for a petition on deck. 915, about the number of police officers on February 1, 2021, from Karl Gauti Hjaltason.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u3	To answer, Prime Minister, Transport and Regional Ministers, Ministers of Health, Social Affairs and Child Affairs, Environment and Resource Ministers and Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u4	A respectable president. There are some facts that we can see. First, the government has not been able to borrow domestic loans on low interest rates to finance government funds as planned last year. During our restoration, we supported financing the palace within the financial economy. Second, the government decided to take another route and has begun a foreign loan with a significant success risk. Third, in Iceland, prices are higher than in other Western countries. Fourth, lack of employment has never been more common in the nation's history, and the long - term lack of work increased between months. Fifth: The government has delivered a bill that gives the Federal Bank permission to place on a vast currency head. If it is new, it narrows the competitiveness of Icelandic companies and their potential for fighting when the epidemic is over. The competition of the Icelandic job life is reduced by oceans. 6th: Along with increasing inflation, the late bat now represents a reduction in the interest of pensions. This reduces the likelihood that they will be able to live up to the promise that an older citizen will maintain his worth when it comes to paying a pension. 7th: The Sea Bank manager fears that the government's budget is greater than the government's budget, and it can speed up interest rates. I'd like to ask the highest. ▪ In view of pressure to increase the importance of pension funds, prime minister is involved in financing money: Is a prime minister willing to state that she will do everything in her power to prevent the development of a matter in a way that allows pensioners to be paid at the end of the bill? Will the prime minister use himself to prevent this from happening, that future pensioners will pay for the current state's shelter?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u5	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. We've already discussed the situation in terms of government funds. I'd like to remind you in the context of the fact that what we're facing in the Icelandic economy is an export failure. At the same time, we have encouraged domestic demand, confident that this crisis is temporary. We believe that the country's export roads will correct the cow. By our policy of ensuring the state's funds, we have a wide variety of funding, i.e. Both domestic and international funding, we feel that we are supporting our financial balance at the same time. Traveler's gonna straighten him out, I've got faith in that. Then export revenues will increase, and we feel that we are well equipped with this wide variety of funding, which, of course, is not just foreign, just to be completely clear. On the other hand, I also believe that the money policy the Navy has promoted is working. As mentioned in my case with why. A member of the Parliament before then works with a government fund to limit the risk of this funding to an end at the Federal bank of great currency. Hv. A senator also introduced the job situation in his inquiry and the bill for the council, which is about ensuring the Secret Bank authorization to use certain national economists. I'm warning you not to do that. A senator reads too much into it, though. A senator well knows what tools we have had to use in the past to ensure stability in the economy, and it is only natural for us to look to it now and learn from the experiences we have gained in the past decade and to ensure the sources that are still very clearly defined in the bill we have here. Hv. A senator asks specifically about the position of pensions. I think I can say absolutely freely that I will, of course, work to see that we are not cutting down the future status of a pensioner, but we need to consider that more than merely the funding of a government fund, and I come to that in the second answer. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u6	A respectable president. We discussed it repeatedly, and we already made it clear that we needed to take a big step right away. We're seeing now that it would have been better done, taking bigger steps. I am concerned, however, that the prime minister is not taking seriously the warning signs we see are drawing up. It's not just for the sake of the crown, we know that there's an enormous success risk now that comes with the foreign loans of state funds, the transformation of the government and the Federal Bank that has become. It is an enormous risk of luck there, a risk to the welfare system, and so forth. I'm really worried that people are going to walk about it lightly, i.e. whether to provide very widely distributed documents to be placed on a gang head. I would have thought that we should have a very solid, detailed discussion here at the conference on such vast authority, because if we see the oceans again, as I think the government is actually proclaiming, how does that affect the competitiveness of Icelandic employment? I would like to know what analysis has taken place in the government if they are going to launch with some traditional bitch, as is being proclaimed in the current government bill. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u7	Mr. President. It is now that I was not in the government that sat here when the Councilman had no authority to deal with the situation of 2008. It would be better for that government to recognize that position and have guaranteed its security rights to address the situation that then arose in the economic situation of the nation. I'd rather be in a government that'll approach with care and provide and guarantee long-term legal authority. [[Up front.]] If we speak of laxness, it is easy to approach it in a way that does not ensure a clear national response device on the Sea Bank. That's easy. I would like to remind you here that foreign loans alone do not necessarily involve an increased price of currency. We're working with Iceland's Secret Bank. He has a wealth of currency reserves and he's working with a government fund to buy this loan. I want less of it. A senator who comes up here and speaks as if everything is cold, the fact is that the contractions are less than predicted, the product of government funds is better, and this is because of government action. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u8	A respectable president. I understand that beaches started back to some extent in Iceland, but at the time, their government strength was removed by the prophecy that competition would solve the problems. This is a subject in which it is difficult to determine exactly whether a good interaction between the government's property and the private market is involved. But I would have thought that considering the debate that has been going on for years, if it wasn't for two decades or something, it would be more important for the council to set up a beach cruise around the whole country in particular to strengthen the settlements in the country. I'm wondering if it's the highest. Ministers have examined or have any information about whether or not there are plans to support coastal cruises in Iceland in particular for that purpose. It is often referred to as the effects of moving through the land, as well as the environmental factors and the like. The reason for asking is, especially, that you can hear much of the complaints from a certain country's settlements that if coastal cruises were larger and used in a direct way to promote special coastal areas, they might have had more opportunities to use their places and promote their productions there. So I ask the highest. Minister: What is the situation of this matter? What are the ideas of the highest order? A minister in that regard, and what prospect can we expect? There does not seem to be much disagreement about that, when people discuss it in a different context than the State's competitiveness or role, that coastal cruises are in the foundation of a good idea.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u9	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for a very interesting inquiry. It is often discussed that it is very clever to start coastal cruises on a much greater scale. But that's right. A senator asked about: "Are there perhaps a beach cruise? " There are far more beaches in Iceland today than we realize. This is because we have been building more powerful ports, so that our large commercial transportation companies are now equipped to sail from sea to sea and transport all the goods that can be done in this way. All the goods that are on the roads today - and this is a story I've had a conversation about directly with these companies recently because I've been looking at these things for a long time because of the challenges we've seen in growing fish farming on Western Europe and Eastern Europe and increasing activities in many places - they're not due to competition, as it were. A senator mentioned, but because of the timers - I'm sorry, a respectable president - that people insist on getting goods or getting goods at an export point so that they could not be on the beach today. However, it is absolutely necessary, and I have started such preparatory work, looking at the challenge that will face in the next 10 to 30 years in increasing transport, whether it is possible to take them on the coasts. Then comes a new technology that has been developed in Iceland to cool down food, cool off fish, which could solve this problem. In fact, it would also be possible to sail away from the land, not fly, which would reduce the levels of carbon. [[The president calls.]] There's one exception to what I'm going to mention and I've been examined, but it's garbage. There's no time to transfer it. It could be collected and brought around the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u10	A respectable president. In some respects, there is a difference between the information I receive from people I've talked to in the coastal areas, but there may be a trend that is still taking place in those spoken words. It can be. However, I represent a slight contradiction in a case of the highest order. While a minister who has a beach cruise in all that is possible, he should consider whether it can be added to some extent and particularly with regard to new technologies. According to these words I rejoice, and I love to hear it, to the utmost. A minister's taking a closer look. Although beaches may not be the solution to all problems, in time, it is important that we take advantage of opportunities to strengthen them. Not only because of the road system that is often mentioned but also because of it - I have to admit that I have more information than the highest. Minister, but my understanding is that they can be used to further the settlements themselves, both in foreign areas and also in moving from them. [[The president calls.]] It may be some misunderstanding on my part, but in any case, I thank the highest. Minister for the answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u11	A respectable president. The key point may be: We all hear that much more beaches can be achieved and that this would solve the problem. That's not correct. It is closer to being such that all the transport that can take ships today is more efficient and more reasonable. In particular, road transport is due to the time, the need for rapid or rapid recovery of goods. There is, however, no contradiction. If we look 20 or 40 years ahead, even ten years in advance, and that is what we need to do when it comes to transportation and transportation, we need to consider what is the most wise way to build up. Large airports, large harbors, great and broad roads, or is it interconnected between these three factors? That's what I'm starting work at right now, looking into the future. There is a new technology that can solve certain problems in matters that we cannot transport with ships today but that could happen in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u12	A respectable president. Now it's got the highest. Health Ministers and the government decide not to make any changes in the border. There is infection on the border, and there is grassing up the British virus. We see the consequences in Norway, including in Oslo, and other states. The CDC suggested that children be damaged, and now the latest news is that those outside Schengen who are vaccinated can make it to the country. I say, if they have kids, they get to come in? Don't they get screened? Now it turns out that the British virus is being infected with children. So I ask, What is being done, and why is this delayed until Easter? Visitors are spoken of. Is the virus being invited in? We know we barely made it back here. Why, on the other hand, do we not heed the words of a hospice doctor and open a drinking house and make sure that the virus does not come in? We only have three months to do so. Can you imagine, three months? And think of the benefits if we make sure that the virus does not enter the country. But what if she gets in? We know that. Then we need to close everything up instead of opening everything up during Easter and not having to have a total policy. I just don't understand. We also know that a certain portion of the people who come here and are to go under will not do so. There's no surveillance. There's a 2355% of the population that breaks this thing, and that's why the virus got into society last time. Why were we on a welfare committee to speed up the control laws so that we could have this opportunity? And why isn't it used now? Let's watch out for this one over Easter. Let's not even let her in.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u13	A respectable president. That is correct, which is expressed in the matter of both. A senator, I received a memo from a D.A.D. this weekend. It considered, on the other hand, measures within the country, which are specific to national regulations and national policy measures, which are a different requirement. As for action within the country, we had to be able to predict what is currently taking place on March 17 because of the current Regulation. These changes are negligible, and we are actually extending the situation as they are now, with a slight change until April 9. For the national regulation it is in its own place to May 1, however it was presented to the Government Regulation which is based on a qualification of the PAD and proof of previous Covid infection outside the EEA, i.e. that this certificate will be accepted as a valid certificate in the EEA area so that the same requirements will be made for all Witnesses. On the same occasion, the Minister of Justice announced a change in regulations under which it will be established. Other factors are also discussed in the study of a disease - control doctor. A member of the United States gives us an example of examining children during their arrivals and also a more than we do today in the use of a disease - control center. These suggestions are considered in the Ministry, and I firmly assume that changes in accordance with these proposals of a psychiatrist will be made in the next few days.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u14	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The health minister answers, but I just don't understand why we're doing this in the next few days. I think the risk is way too great. I think we should do this right now, make sure we get a break. We can. New Zealand has proved that it can be done. This is not supposed to be a problem for us. We're much less of a community. There's something else I'd like to ask the highest. Healthcare Minister to the top. After the AstraZeneca case has been introduced and has been stopped by that medicine, I have been contacted by people who have underlying diseases and even many. They are concerned that they will not be allowed to choose, be under 65 years of age, and take the material at hand. It may be all right this week, but will Ministers make sure they don't have to worry, they're a few people, and let them pick the stuff they want, especially if they don't get AstraZeneca, that they get to do it and pick something else?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u15	A respectable president. First, about the previous question. The senator, about doing this quickly and carefully as a result of changing the border, so with all changes in the border that some of them require programming and preparation, we need to be assured of information to a pilot, etc. We'll do it as fast as possible, and I'd like to make sure. That's what a senator's got to do with it. Hv. A candidate also asks about the AstraZeneca vaccine that is being checked by the European Medicines Agency. Thursday, i.e. not tomorrow but the other, the European Medicines Agency will provide a final assessment of whether it is safe to continue vaccination with AstraZeneca. We have assumed this, and a psychiatrist has said that he feels that we are likely to follow that guidance here. We have not wanted to choose a vaccine because it is the best decision for a DC to be made which vaccine is used in each case and I assume it will be continued.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u16	Mr. President. Recently it was informed that the European Minister for Ministers' opinion that we would open and actually bring them from here to continent of Europe. According to reports, the Council of Ministers was negative in its search for Icelandic government. At noon this afternoon, reports that if the government is to issue regulations in this week that allow the Americans and the British who have been vaccinated to enter the country, they will have issued a national certificate for vaccination. For this reason, these new news, I pray that the highest. The Minister of Justice will explain this to us slightly, in the context of previous reports on the position of the Council of Justice, whether it is actually moving the external borders of Schengen beyond Iceland, and whether the tourists who come here and are allowed to enter this country need to submit to a special border control if they intend to continue their journey to Europe, which I think must be. Also, I would like to ask the highest. Minister of Justice whether this has been done in agreement and with the approval of the Council of Ministers. Reports indicate that the council was opposed at the beginning, and I'm curious about this. I'd also like to ask, would there be an option in this regard, since it is being authorized for tourists from Britain and the United States, to expand it, and also to accept tourists as Witnesses from other countries such as Canada or China? I'm curious about that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u17	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. To clarify this further, the decision taken by the government today was to agree with the proof of vaccine or antibody testing as agreed by the European Medicines Agency, which applies to all countries outside Schengen. Especially did we take examples of countries that have most of the tourists who come to the country, i.e. Britain and the United States These changes may have the most impact on them. But it is clear that Canada and all other countries will fall under it. These are the vaccines approved by the European Medicines Agency and they are the ones who will be excluded from all disease-free areas, such as those that come here from countries in Europe with the same certificate. Hv. A senator asks the difference between this and a previous request. Of course, the difference is enormous because vaccines were not introduced, and Schngeren was put on to protect the area from infections outside the region. No matter how well people might have felt they were effective, these measures were put on specifically because of them. So I don't think it's a controversial reason to go that far that people who have a vaccine against the disease that is being protected from the external borders of Schengen would not be able to come to this country. By changing the regulation and by acknowledging this certificate, which is the same as the same vaccine used in Europe, as well as by changing the prohibition against unprovoked trips from non-Sengen countries, we are taking a very important step and the government to encourage people to accept the vaccine by saying that we will take it and that we will take it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u18	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for her answer. I'm also going to review this with Europe: Are these tourists free to go to Europe despite the position of the Council of Ministers of the European Council? Do I understand that they will be able to get into Schengen as soon as they get here, or is it contrary to the Minister's opinion? Has something changed in this regard? Also, I'd like to ask about the vaccines. That's how it's gonna be, topv. Ministers, to those who may come from Canada or China with proof that they have accepted another vaccine that is not approved in Europe, such as Sputnik V, which has not yet been approved by the European Medicines Agency, will be prevented from coming in here? Do you understand? Will visitors who have received a vaccine that has not been approved be turned back on the border?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u19	A respectable president. Other countries, such as Cyprus, have made special contributions to the Israelites and others. Most countries, including the entire North countries, are now using border surveillance on their inner borders. Of course, it is up to them to decide what to do with the tourists they visit from non-Sengen countries and are vaccinated. As a nation, we are making the decision that we are welcome here with a contract of vaccination throughout the world, with vaccines approved by the European Medicines Agency. At this time, we will not accept a vaccination certificate with other vaccines. But you expect and support the hope that more vaccines will soon be approved by the European Medicines Agency. The Council of Ministers was not particularly informed about this decision, but I believe it is unwilling for those who are already vaccinated or seropositive and therefore will not conflict with the purpose of the Regulation on the ban on unfounded movements outside Schengen. And I think it's important for Icelandic society, economy and employment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u20	Mr. President. In a meeting with a man. The welfare committee this morning was adopted a unanimous statement of heavy concern by members of the committee over the position that has come up today as a result of the operation of nursing homes from rural areas to the state. Hv. The welfare committee recommends in its declaration of government to provide management in such a way that employees will be assured of continuing work and that their rights and ideals are maintained, as are examples for similar translocation, and that they will be looked at the laws found in the laws on the rights of employees'rights to business ventures. At the same time, the commission declared itself ready to proceed rapidly before the next month's match, if the highest level. The HCP considers this necessary to set this matter straight so as to ensure that both, personnel and staff work as well as their rights are guaranteed. Now that this statement is made, I'd like to ask the highest. Healthcare Minister if the General Assembly will receive clear answers by the end of the week on whether governments are ready to ensure the work and rights of the current staff of the three nursing homes, i.e. and the Western Islands and the Faraway region, so that there is no need for such specific legislation. This is a clear example for comparable ones, which has been done in translocation, such as on the Hornfjord and beyond. I'm asking the highest. Health Minister: Is she willing to listen to the committee and arrange a contract so that we can secure the work of 150 men and women in the Western Islands and the United States and make that statement light by the end of the week?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u21	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator's request and interest in the matters involved in the operation of a nursing facility in two rural communities where, unfortunately, the situation has developed so that the rural communities have reported the operation of nursing homes. Of course, this involves a great deal of responsibility because, of course, our most important roles and privileges must be to ensure that we share in the ministry, and that is what we want to do. At the same time, as mentioned in the discussion, I have agreed to discuss the great interests of the person involved. It would be important for those who do this service in nursing homes in a direct manner to keep their work to the extent possible. I'd like to point out that Guðjón Hauksson, director of the Eastern Institute of Health, has said, with permission of presidents: I'm in charge of all I know that we're going to need all the hands on deck in this and we're going to hire all this staff back to work at the Eastern Institute of Health. This is what he said in an interview at RUS in the daytime. I believe, more dignified President, that it is not possible to have some legal exercise now but to put forth effort, as well as to seek ways that respect the interests of both the population and the staff, and to take care of justice and balance.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u22	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer and ask again: Is she willing to state that the contracts and transfers will be resolved so that the work of this employee and its rights will be transferred, referred to as a reference to the transition? Although governments do not have a clear legal obligation to abide by that law, that is, in fact, debate, these employees and we need to deal with them. The welfare committee is given clear answers to that question. The responsibility is with the government, with the government, not with the rurals, since the law is responsible for the management of nursing homes. There are six and eight months between the breaking of these contracts and all that time, they have been trying to negotiate, although it has always been declared that rights and jobs are committed to the transfer. But that changed ten days ago, and that's why they all call it normal, and now all of us are totally at odds. A welfare committee, according to a clear answer to whether we need to go to this unnecessary legal system so that the government will respond to the call the operator's staff and now. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u23	Once again, I want to emphasize my stand on this matter. I notice why. In his first inquiry, a senator speaks of the need for a government stand before the end of the week. Of course, it is important that the answers lie ahead of the first and arrangements for the transfer of the procedure, while the rural communities, both the Far East and the Western Islands, asked to extend the contract for one month. I consider that we use the time, both our communities and the state, which will probably all consider it to be extremely rich interests on the journey, not only to the population but also to the less of the staff, and to look for ways, whether it has a reference to specific legislation or how it will be done, to protect these rich interests of justice and of moderate safety. And that's what it says.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u24	President. Last month's testing project opened up to the Secret Service. It is safe to say that the experience of the project, after an extended period of time, is quite good. Hundreds of queries have been received, and it has been found that the need was enormous and still is. When I was working on this matter at the time, many people came along and wanted to put their arms around the project and warm up. Among them was Réjanestown and would not be surprised, since the number of immigrants there is quite high. Now we know that the situation there is particularly bad when it comes to employment. Unemployment is about a quarter. The evidence that I received, when I visited the mayor during the days, found that at a certain point, the percentage of foreign citizens from abroad was out of work about 45%. I have to admit, I don't know exactly what the situation is right now. Counseling in this area is of utmost importance to people who are not familiar with the system. It is very important to help those who do not know the system well enough and to teach them about the rights they have in the position of losing their jobs. For example, in the immigrant counseling room, there is now an open house and can enter and meet with advisers from the employment agency in the living room here at Hlem, showing the need. President. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister to see if, in view of all that has been traced here, it is not the only thing to open the branch office of immigrants in the city of Rhines, where the need for entering the street and for counseling is indeed available in this group.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u25	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this inquiry and agree with the question. A senator's assignment, an immigrant consulting room, is well started. This is not a government agency. Rather, it is a work of a large number of people and institutions who in one way or another are involved in the affairs of immigrants and have been created as a result of controversies as well. A member of the council moved here, was accepted there, and was assigned to follow it as a minister. On the other hand, I also say that what's going on now is a test project. There is experience, however, only a few weeks; there are no scores of weeks of experience. Yes, the assignment is promising, so it may well be the course to follow to consider further locations. Then, of course, the Rhines are close enough. There's a senator here. There's a high percentage of immigrants in Smokejanes and in Smokeytown, so I find it exciting and Smokeytown has approached the Ministry for this purpose in the past phase. However, I think a little more experience is needed before a formal decision can be made. Meanwhile, the Office of the Ministry, such as a work agency, has a branch office in the city of Rhines, and staff has been increasing. I find it exciting to look at this possibility when there is only more experience in the immigrant consulting room set up as a test project in the capital area.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u26	President. Thank you very much. A minister who has a positive attitude was encouraging and encouraging him because the need is now. We're working on some measures to reduce our need, but the need to walk off the street and get help and advice is now. It was in itself an experimental project within the experiment project that opened up for a moment, in cooperation with local agencies and authorities - I want to say that the local government has kept an enormous grip on these matters. I think it's up to the state to help. You can get online advice, the new immigrant counseling agency offers it on the website Newicelands, and I encourage people to check it out. But there's nothing in return for walking off the street, and I'm glad to hear it. A minister may see to it that I am taking the step of opening a branch office in Smokejanestown.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u27	A respectable president. Of course, it was a matter of conjecture. A senator moved, and as a result, he was at ease. In effect, a member of the council took the initiative to set up an immigrant planning agency in the capital area, because a minister is required to comply with the approval of the Generalis at a time and when the council conceals a minister to do something, he should do so. However, in terms of expanding the resource or this experiment, we don't have the budget for it in the current budget, so we need to get some kind of special funding to do it. This project, a consulting agency of immigrants in the capital area, was funded as a experimental project to deal with the Covid epidemic. If there were increased funds at the council, then the minister would not be opposed, but at the same time we should be aware that it would be good to allow a little more experience in getting to that resources in the capital area. But if we are to open up another plan that seems exciting to me, with such low - threshold service as this, I think it is clearly the next step in that subject. [[The president calls.]] I agree with what. That's what a senator does.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u28	Mr. President. In a pandemic and deep economic crisis, unemployment is common in February 11.4% of the country's population, or 21,352 individuals. In February 4,719 people had been unemployed for more than 12 months. The average lack of work since 1980 is 3.1%. The late bank still predicts a lot of unemployment, about 7.3% this year, and little less the next, or 6.7%, and 6.3% in 2022. This high unemployment will have economic and social consequences if nothing has to be done. Therefore, it is so important that those without employment will be intelligent and governments will take proper measures to combat poverty. If the government does not move faster than this, it is a political decision to let those who lose their jobs in the pandemic bear the weightiest load. The workforce's research programme, conducted a survey of members of the BSRB and ASI Member States at the end of 2020. It found that among the unemployed members, over half were unable to make ends meet. Unemployment is also much more likely to need to consult fellow members or friends and relatives after financial assistance, to accept assistance from relief workers, or to receive food help from relief agencies. Some 35% of the unemployed live in rented rooms compared with 15% of the paymen. Unemployment is more common among foreign citizens than it is in Icelandic. In addition, the group in general seems in a worse position and immigrants have had to accept food and/or financial support to a greater extent than others. A survey of health and mental and physical matters was also asked. The results show that the spiritual and physical health of the unemployed are worse than those at work, and they are more likely to have refused to attend medical care. The spiritual health of the unemployed is also much worse for women than for men. The situation of unemployed is serious and requires much more attention from governments and powerful, specific measures. Step as high as possible. Minister of Social Affairs introduced last Friday to be positive. We in the United States had called for such an operation, with strength, as was the case after a collapse in the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, but more needs to come in and out of time. Help for those who suffer from long - term lack of work requires a variety of activities, and it is absolutely necessary to enable people to pursue health care, especially mental - health care. Mr. President. There is a danger that if the thousands of people who have lost their jobs have lost their jobs, the debt of debt will take over. The unemployment period needs to be joined, but there is also a special support for domestic income, and they need to have money like the companies. Reykjavík's trade union has proposed a specific support designed to ensure the safety of homes that have been lost and income loss in a pandemic, and ASI has made the idea of its own. Time is running out, and many homes are already at the edge of a crisis. The solution involves the access of both governments and banks. Residence loans will be given to authorized households with state responsibility and a discount on income taxes to pay off the payments. Banks provide extension loans in the form of a monthly loan line with state responsibility. In this way home can continue to live up to its commitment and to support itself and its families during a financial failure. During an unprepared question period of December 14th, the highest reply was made. My prime minister asks me to find support for dealing with a debt problem would be considered at the highest level. Minister of Social Affairs and Child Affairs. Is there a response coming from the highest level? Minister of this matter? Thousands have spent more than six months without a job, and problems flare up. You have to pay off loans, pay rent, pay insurance, and dress, and feed your children, and other members of your household. A negative influence on the social and economic balance of high unemployment is a problem that will be experienced in the years to come. The effects differ from those on different social groups. Young people's situation, non - Israelites, and women are particularly bad. So I ask the highest. A minister of what steps does he feel it is necessary to take in order to meet the specific problems of unemployed workers in a job crisis. What emergency action is most effective? What is the highest measure. A minister can best counteract the negative effects of long - term incorruption?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u29	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this special discussion. She's important and she's urgent. You're right. A senator suggests that this pandemic is a different group of people in Icelandic society, whether individuals or businesses. Many people are not greatly affected, but the most influential group is those who have lost their jobs and their families. The best way to prevent long - term noncooperative work is to create jobs, and that is what we have been preparing for it. During the last week, we presented the largest motivational action taken in support of creation. Take a choice as far as your head is concerned. A senator thus quoted in terms of what was done during the economic collapse is an alternative that has been present since that time and is present, but we take it now and pick it up very well. Because of what? A senator spoke of extending reform rights and unemployment rates, but we are actually extending unemployment rates in the form of employment insurance in cooperation with our rural society. We're working with our rural communities to secure individuals who have completed their rights. We aim for 472,000 bucks to be supported by a community. to create jobs for an individual, while there are more than 300,000 fees. and financial support from a rural society at a rate of 1 60,000 ◯220,000 k. It's the best way to get the economy going. We'll go there the best way to ensure a higher trend. This is the best way to get people involved, and this is the best way to get the economy started, and this is also the best way to secure the increased income of the rural community because they also earn more money because they create these jobs. I have strong hopes that this will turn out well. But it is urgent that companies, rural groups, government agencies and free organisations come with us on this journey and take advantage of the initiatives that were being introduced to create jobs, because it is not that the Ministers create the work. People who are professionals, those who already have people in recruitment, make jobs. This catalyst is the largest attacker and is designed to create such activities. Hv. A senator takes into account the economic consequences of the long - term lack of work in the homes. It certainly has social and economic consequences. I'd like to say about the social factor that each step we've had a variety of social actions to intervene in. I answered a question from what? A senator who bowed down to the immigrant counseling room, which is part of a social response. We have been able to support a free organization that has a variety of social responses in a pandemic like Covid. When it comes to economic reactions, we have stepped in with the extension of the income-related period, with an increase in housework for children, and an increase in stress, and we are still watching it. We are preparing suggestions that will keep this group in place because it is the strength of this government to respond to each occasion, to follow the pandemic. Therefore, we are now going to the largest effort that has been under attack, the most motivated action ever taken to create jobs. That's because we're watching the epidemic. We're watching how and when the job life enters and how we can finish this game and then bridge the gap until the job begins. We expect this to happen as a higher proportion of people receive vaccination, and more relief can be done during the course of the disease prevention. I want to thank you. A senator for this insistence. We'll stay awake. We listen to practical suggestions from wherever they come, and we are ready to cooperate with all concerned parties.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u30	Mr. President. I appreciate the discussion. Already the virus will need a national restoration policy in order to eliminate unemployment and promote the prosperity of the people. In an effort to promote employment and destroy unemployment, investment campaigns are under attack to improve national infrastructure. Here we discuss the road system, airports, ports, bridges, and other such workforces. Here are large sums of money for successful projects. Many projects have been removed for too long. The road system does not meet the carrier requirements and safety requirements. Airports, roads, and ports must be trusted. Venture and waste activities are widely inaccessible, threatening environment and public health. Large projects are waiting in energy processing and energy transport. Heats and water departments need to reimburse them in many places. The same is true of schools and hospitals, nursing homes for the elderly. In the capital area, we need to strengthen fortifications, to set up discrepancies, to use light control, and to park the Sun path. Invested investments contribute to the country's increased quality of life, the competitiveness of employment, and the future economic growth. Nearly 400 billion people who are best - known in their jobs must be judged in order to get things done in these areas. Now we have an opportunity to eliminate unemployment, to improve our country's infrastructure, and to improve our standard of living. Direct work will require a number of secondary jobs in a variety of articles. The results will lay the foundation for economic growth in the coming days. To finance projects, it can be seen that the Kingdom establishs a society that uses knowledge and intelligence. Such a society might go to the public and offer pension funds in a generous way to make long - term donations. The projects are profitable and pay up in a relatively short time. The land would be raised in a variety of ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u31	A respectable president. During the past year, we have been allowed to accept the slow movement of jobs, some of which are more and less frozen because of the pandemic. However, no job has been paid more than that of tourism. General unemployment was 11.4% in February, according to the latest financial figures, but the Agency predicts a decrease in overall unemployment in March and in the range of 10.9◯11.3%. The largest unemployment in February was in Southnes, or 25.4%, and had decreased from 26% in January. It is a pleasure to slightly reduce unemployment, but it is clear that in the months to come, we need to see a much larger jump. The summer is on a normal trip to the rush hour for tourism. Of course, it is extremely unlikely that this will happen this year, despite the fact that the vaccinated outside of the Schengen region can produce a valid certificate for this. That, though, is a big step in the right direction. Travel and employment work required increased confidence in order to function normally. I'm not afraid that extending space on the border will cause health problems. The full course of vaccinations and the most sensitive groups, such as patients, prospectives and elderly, have been given the injection, still others have antibodies, have received Covid and have overcome disease. Not to be overlooked is the fact that doctors have far more knowledge and experience in treating the disease than when the virus first arrived a year ago. It is time, therefore, for a tiny amount of oxygen to be allowed in the most necessary ways. So I'm celebrating the extra space on the border. The task ahead is to continue to create conditions for people to return to work, since unemployment itself may be a threat to the health of people permanently. V.E.G. President. Unemployment will only be eliminated by employment. [[The president calls.]] Patches don't solve anything. I believe that space will now help to breathe life into the tourism service, ensure more work, and then not be allowed to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u32	A respectable president. If Covid has taught us something, we as a nation can't have all the eggs in the same basket as the national industry. But imagine that there was a solution that would have all the means to become the fourth support of Icelandic employment, and so much better would it go along completely with a brand new direction. Secretary of education and culture for Iceland. By one simple operation, we could create a number of jobs, get billions into the country at once, billions who would flow through the economy for a while, before only a fraction would return and leave behind a huge amount of money in society. Let's just think about it. The course I refer to is, of course, the highest. Education minister on filmmaking in Iceland. With one small song bill that says reimbursement for film production would be increased to 35% from 25%, this would be possible. A number of jobs can be created in the tourism industry, the art sector, music, industry, technology, I could continue long, can create exports based on modern intelligence and innovation - and foreign intelligence - that could be distributed on the Internet. In this case, employment, market and land fairs are equipped without a direct cost. That would be what we would get. As it is now, however, we are losing a large task in neighboring countries, even a project in Iceland. The industrial organizations recently released a video explaining this crystal clear. [[The president calls.]] Another country, to form Ireland, is to raise the reimbursement. They're building a studio, they're taking a job we could be getting here. [[The president calls.]] We have the situation here, and the competition gets harder. [[The president calls.]] The Icelandic government has had a year to deal with this, but it has not. [[The president calls.]] And we're losing every day.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u33	Mr. President. Indeed, the big unemployment we face is a lot of anxiety and society's greatest challenge. Since the outbreak of a pandemic, the government has taken it firmly on a number of job market operations as a result of a collapse in tourism and economic crisis. Unemployment is always evil, but especially a blow to the individual who is affected by it and especially when it lasts long with financial and social consequences. So it is important to identify the groups that are lost and to look for all ways to keep people active and as long as possible in the recruitment relationship. This has been the objective and guide of the government in all its operations over the past year to face unemployment by various measures and to take the situation regularly. Actions include: turned to maintain the recruitment relationship and extend the partial improvement process. We've extended the income-related improvement period, unemployment improvements were increased by the last year, employment benefits were implemented, a special December remuneration was paid last year, and child support was raised. Last summer, a number of people were created by state and rural society and were important to students. There have been recruitment opportunities to hire more people. In the last few years, a major campaign has been launched that I place high hopes of success in the struggle to cope with unemployment by spending up to 5 billion on temporary unemployment and thus creating some 7,000 jobs. This is to be a great deal of unemployment if governments, communities, and businesses come together. Happily, unemployment has been falling together, and hopefully the land will begin to rise with the rising sun, and we will begin to master the unemployment that no one wants to see for the long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u34	A respectable president. As soon as last year, when the virus was on, we called in for a trip to the government to take a big step right away. They would need to be specific, and they would need to be specific for the homes of the country, for the companies of the country. Sadly, though, the measures presented by the government have been more often than not found in somewhat beautiful and beautiful packages, but the lack of real content. What can be pointed out? Yeah, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well. Great press conferences have been held for extensive infrastructure, but since then it has been found that words did not follow up. There was a contraction of the infrastructure up to 10% last year. Smokeytown is likely the largest - hit community in history. The root was heavy for, including due to the fall of WOW. Before the pandemic, government inactivity against the region had become shameful. Thus, the worldwide epidemic itself is no refuge for us as we discuss the unemployment in the area. Today, it's about 25%. Social and economic events, but especially the spiritual consequences of long - term noncooperative activities, are serious. Yet, the government would not support us in taking premedical measures, just to support people's spiritual well - being, and especially to promote psychological services. That does not mean just talking about the problem indefinitely, writing reports, and conducting press conferences. Our obligation is to ensure the right steps to solve people's problems now and temporarily while driving through this scrap. Here, the prime minister said that everything has been better because of the government's actions. There were many fine things to say, but that is not enough to be said, including. With those in the South where there is one of the biggest unemployments in history Probably the biggest and fastest operation the government could have done today is to secure the vaccinations as soon as possible, lift the ground limits on May 1, as expected, and, of course, make sure that people outside Schengen - and I welcome what can be vaccinated into the country. [[The president calls.]] Thus, we open up our companies to the Southnes, which are connected to the terminal and travel services so that they can open up the country and recruit people. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u35	A respectable president. We'll talk about unemployment here. We're supposed to be more concerned about people who have lost their unemployment record. Their existence is inconceivable because they are set for social benefits. Social reforms accept what we call a mate's impairment. As a result, these individuals become dependent on their marriage mates. It sucks that we still have such a system of things that we should put it into practice for someone to depend on his mate's income to support ourselves financially. Then, it is likely to take disability. We've got another thousand at least. which are felled out of unemployment records at a short time, in one year at Covid, and it falls out of 100 people every month. It's the people we're supposed to grab now. I don't know if it's in that arrangement as the highest. Social and child - care minister was introducing about these 7,000 new jobs, whether it is specifically mentioned how to assist this group, because it is not enough to just say to people: you can apply. We need to realize that after years of unemployment, there are enormous problems, just as those who are in disability. Then there is a very small chance that the person will be able to save himself, since he is basically caught in unemployment. And once he has been out of work for two years and then falls out of a list, the breakdown has become complete. Therefore, we need to make sure that we assist these individuals and reach them, that they are helped, that they are found appropriate jobs so that they can really get into such measures. The talk should preferably be addressed to these individuals so that they can apply it because they have and need to get in there. In my second speech, I come in more.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u36	Mr. President. Today, like the people we are living today, we must make good use of public space. We have a fragile currency, we have a great history of inflation, and in responsible economic management, it is to direct the help where it is needed. Right from the beginning, we in the United States have been able to speak for this. This is a crisis in very limited groups, people who lose their jobs, and businesses, especially in tourism. Sadly, the government's slowness and lack of understanding have made it a random way of helping. For example, to get money through a traffic system that allowed them to flood into the real estate market, into the stock market, with the expected increases there, this is pressured by the United States Bank to take action. It was money that was most useful to those who were in good standing. However, those who had problems could not use these options. They needed everything they needed, finished their savings, or even needed to borrow, or took other steps to draw back their lives. This is simply not acceptable. For a year, actions have not been sufficiently directed toward these groups. Those who had a lot of money now have more. People who had problems now find it harder to deal with them. In this crisis, there has been an increase. It was the worst situation that came up, but it has been warned all this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u37	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir For bringing up the subject of this important discussion, a Oddný Harðardóttir of G.. That is unemployment, and the answer is work, employment, employment. Now following Covid, we face a very difficult job situation. Unemployment is different among certain groups and within certain parts of the country, and the situation has been particularly difficult in Southnes. Other parts of the country have escaped better. It is important that the government accepts jobseekers with all the means available. It is important to make sure that we do not look up for long - term noncooperative activities for years along with all that goes with it. Though a difficult situation may be involved, the government has not been in a position of wealth. In this discussion, it is important to welcome the new action of Ásmundur Einar Daðason's son, the social and child - care minister, which he introduced on Friday afternoon, i.e. Work begins, linking with the problem that is directly discussed here. The aim of the project is to ensure jobseekers, especially long-term jobseekers, up to 7,000 temporary jobs in cooperation with employment, government agencies, rural society, and society. In that case, all companies may use employment grants which enable employers to recruit and increase the number of non-employees. Alternatively, SMEs are being helped to hire jobseekers who have been jobless for 12 months or more. Similarly, similar strength is given to rural society, government agencies, and unfavourable public - welfare organisations. A respectable president. This is a worthwhile assignment and a lofty goal to correct and improve these issues. The environment has now been developed, and these parties have to assist in the work. We need to finish the game.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u38	Mr. President. The total lack of employment is now measured in February of the last 12.5%. No part of the country's gone worse than Southnes. The world's unemployment rate is 24%, the worst in Smokeynestown, where over 2,600 people are now out of work. In the whole country, if you include those in a reduced employment ratio, more than 25,000 people are now out of work for a while. This needs to be treated. In the South, it is mainly the traveling service that has been low and that has resulted in unemployment. Now the government, Mr President, presents a new campaign called impulse action, which will create 7,000 jobs. I'm asking, is this a substitute for the partial improvement? Should the partial improvement pathway be canceled because of this new process, so called impulse action? On this occasion, I would like to remind you that two years ago, the government introduced drum - beat campaigns for increased investments. As a result, public investments decrease by less than 11% in 2019 and less than 10% in 2020. Is there a way that is similar to that of the extra expenses that then became a spectacular contraction? When a dramatic recession was made in the commercial investment, the government was going to help, but the result was a recession. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u39	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir It's a G. Harðardóttir for this discussion. It sucks to see tens of thousands of unemployment people. Despite the rise in unemployment of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter's government of 35%, there is no envy in surviving those benefits. Then the government has extended bi-time income-related unemployment benefits. The improvement is about 450,000. a month or 900,000 k. has a husband and wife, but they call everything on the job. The goal is always to have relief people. There should not be any particular aim to allow compensation to compete with pay, as the Conspiracy prefers. The joys of these people are filled with health, life - force, and loss of joy in their work and the better they call for. It is a special health problem when the nation has been vaccinated that we open the country and call out to work as hard as we can. We must fill the aircraft with people who have been vaccinated in our neighboring countries and have proof of their health. We'll be happy to accept all of that. We'd like to bring it back home and get the travel service started as soon as possible. The union forgets that our employment, businesses, and homes are a constant form of respect that keeps society going and that we are to care for it. The ongoing attacks by the United States on government and corporate growth of taxes and the fact that there is no room for a special threat to society. In fact, it's a special threat to society that the United States now claim to lead the government after the next election. A respectable president. It is top priority that my knowledge is to initiate travel services and related services when the nation's vaccination is largely completed in spring. As the minister mentioned at the beginning of this discussion, there will be only a reversal of the work that will be carried out by the work of creation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u40	President. I'm going to continue with the wild talk I had in last year, even breaking the mood of a council. Actually, I'm not gonna apologize for the enthusiasm. The industrial organizations recently released a video explaining why it is so important to raise the payoff to filmmaking to 35%. Other countries are doing this. They build studios, they take projects that we could have received here. I'll keep saying this. We have a situation here. If the government had listened a year ago, we could be Ireland now. We could get huge projects, billions in here, and the sector would grow and thrive. The competition is getting stronger. The secretary of travel and innovation is at the very end of Iceland's competitiveness in the foreign sector. That's not true, Mr. Honorable President. It's just wrong. For a year there's been no listening, and I know that because yesterday the bill was distributed to the reimbursement company. It's an extension, but it's the same number 25%. What a mess. But with regard to the government's employment policy in general, let's bear in mind that the top commercial situation will certainly be the largest, with the permission of the President, the 00-mail-Covid challenge. Recently, special employment campaigns were started under the heading. If Covid should have taught us something, it's possible to stop and think, think and take the position. It's not terrible if we're not always on a million. Just before Covid, there was a huge discussion of global coldness and misery. So I would have thought it was important now to create a flexibility for the unemployed to enter a completely modified labour market at its own pace, on its terms, without the complex bickering, and without losing the safety network. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Why don't you just focus on a business? How about betting on the individual?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u41	Mr. President. The fight against unemployment is one of the largest projects in society, many of which are called responsible. Hv. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir spoke about what has been decided to be a special emergency, or has been done recently, but I intend only to look to the future more clearly and mention one key to starting with an education campaign, especially. I mention, as an example, what has been active in planning these past few days and what is being planned through a strategy, a parish plan, regional programmes. I'll take an example of the headliner on the Southnes and an organization of the South Side Associations, which is a partnership between the economy and the institutions and members of the community or rural society and recruitment. I therefore remind myself of a study in Icelandic for immigrants, who are of enormous importance. More long - term projects face the long - term challenge of achieving a medium - time lack of employment of 11◯12%. I'll give you more jobs without location, maintain the transport programme, the tens of millions of investments to create jobs, including the completion of a fiber - optic industry within the urban areas. I'm going to place a great deal of emphasis on research, evolution, and innovation which are responsible for increasing the number of jobs that are everything to us. This requires all the activities of the State's investment through funding systems and powerful schools, the student loan system, and the other. I'm going to talk about my country's investments in general and their unity. - But the companies, including the banks, what do they have to do? Yes, they have to adjust their profits, invest much of it, improve interest rates, slow down economic management, and, above all, maintain their jobs, and, above all, maintain their social responsibilities completely. There has been a shortage in Iceland for a long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u42	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The new Harðardóttir Daughter for setting up this important discussion on the program. We have a serious unemployment crisis and have been doing so for almost a year now. This is a crisis that strikes people with varying degrees of severity. The people who are going to be sorry for it will not only lose their income if they last a long time outside the market, they may lose their livelihood, and they will face long - term economic and social problems with unemployment. We know that. We were encouraged by the projection to take a big step as soon as the Covid standard came up less than a year ago, but not a small step later. In fact, a little over a year ago, a unemployment crisis began. In December 2019, over 8,000 people were out of work, and the population had doubled that year. Immediately, we pointed out the importance and need for governments to respond by means of a campaign to stimulate the economy and contribute to commercial development in the less critical areas. The number outside the workforce, as we all know, has grown even more and more important to respond immediately in a pointed way. Government inactivity adds to the problem. Random and slow actions do not save much meaningful statements. The situation is that those who have been unemployed in this country for over six months now number nearly 13,000. It's the entire population of a fairly large Icelandic community. Today, the government has offered its suggestions, and in this case, it is rather that they are quite comparable to government proposals from about a year ago. That is why I want to ask: What has caused this delay? How's the top line? Ministers to worst families in the past year?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u43	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir A new Harðardóttir Daughter for taking up this discussion and Minister for participating in it. What I find most remarkable about what was presented in a minister's speech is the extraordinary amount that he pointed out to be given to people from their rural communities, a sum of 60,000,220,000 dollars. per month. We also need to realize that this is not the right thing to say in itself because, in the case of a married couple, the amount of money starts at $340,000. in Reykjavík. So we're talking about the amount of money people can't live in any way, that's not possible. It also gives a big question mark to the unemployment reform today of about 307,000, if I have the right number, how incredibly low it is. But the light has come. We have received confirmation of what we need in order to survive with a little restoration: 472,000. That's what's at the highest. Department of Social Affairs presents the need to survive. I believe this is confirmed and that now it will be set in just the minimum set for the Department of Social Affairs for what people need to have to live. That's about 350,000 bucks. by tax. It tells us that from this number, we should see to it that people get 300,000 dollars right away. a minimum of tax and impairment immediately. We cannot and should not allow ourselves to be subjected to the violence, the economic violence, to throw people in such an amazing pit, since they have no way of doing things. This is what we need to keep our eyes clear and hidden.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u44	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister and minister. members of the body are involved in this special discussion. V.E.G. The government has done something to address the loss of corporate income, but less is involved in dealing with domestic income loss and the people who lost their jobs in the same companies. It's drawing the highest. Government legs. The government's hovering. In a professional crisis, there will be an even greater cost for longer periods of time. This will show all tests and analyses of bad side effects of long-term inactivity. The United States produced a plan for the last 7,000 new jobs in early October. That's where we called them "we" by means of the highest possible route. The Minister of Social Affairs was introduced last Friday, less than six months later. That procedure is important, but it is late and is short. People who have been unemployed the longest and completed this period prior to October 1, 2020 are left behind. The people who have lost their jobs and reduce their income, reduce the inequities of the crisis, and prevent the rate of failure. If we do not guarantee the security of people while working between them, poverty and inequities will increase. To protect the safety of those without employment is not against the goal of increasing jobs but on the contrary. We need vigorous work ethics, longer unemployment improvements, learning strategies, intelligent recruitment grants, as well as the volume of earnings to face difficult conditions for people who suffer from a pandemic. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u45	A respectable president. I want to, like the perfunctory of this discussion, why. Harðardóttir So thanks for the discussion and good talks here on this important subject. I like the conversation. The government has taken many measures. We immediately come in with the partial improvement process, which was designed to ensure progress and maintain the recruitment relationship. Then we have an extended income-related period. We've undergone a series of operations. But I feel that there is a misunderstanding when it comes to discussing extending a period of improvement because it has been looked into. There is talk of extending the improvement period, such as the ruffle. The official of the case came in, with unemployment rates of more than 300,000 dollars. However, what we're going to do, which is not the Conspiracy's proposal, is create jobs with the rural community at 470,000 k. will run to the countryside to create jobs for these individuals, because I wholeheartedly agree with them. paritaprevir Guðmundur Igngi Kristinsson said earlier, that the community must embrace these individuals. That's what we're going to do in cooperation with our societies. Instead of placing more than 300,000 dollars. During a month to extend the improvement period, we will pay the rural population at 470,000 dollars. to create jobs for these individuals, to put their arms around these individuals, and to ensure that at the same time larger production but also help to get started again, in order to prevent what has been said here, the sufferer from disability. [[The president calls.]] That's basic. Then, like all those who have spoken in the discussion, hope that when vaccination begins when the country opens up, it will start to reduce the unemployment process much faster. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We're just getting ready with the effort to start jobs, which I encourage everyone to study.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u46	Mr. President. We're here votes for a synonym that has this long name, and we're actually paying a vote on a Senate resolution that goes out on the job of appointing a group of workers who are going over funding tests for nature and more and more, and we're also covering the work to be done in the light of what is going on in the Smokejanes Peninsula, it's been taking place on Seyder and elsewhere. This proposal is made in eight teams, or projects, and it will be endeavoring to appoint a professional group and others. I would particularly like to thank the Committee for having been in charge in this case with the initiative of this species and see here we are working on national Cleaning.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u47	A respectable president. I recommend here for the Committee on Environment and Transport, with a change to the bill for a change in traffic laws, which is about extra tax and simple regulations and other items. I'm going to review the key elements we're making some adjustments after the committee's discussion. I'll start with our discussion on the decommissionment of desserts made for less than 750 kg. Eight. The bill is submitted to a 1st-mg change. 72. g. The law that there will be no obligation to record a motor vehicle left for a total body weight of 750 kg or less, other than tent carriages, shelters, and trailers, but such carriages should be registered regardless of total weight. With law No. 77/209, when we set up new traffic laws, all motor vehicles were registered and therefore all car cars were obtained. In reviews, as well as in the case of visitors at meetings, there were different opinions about this article of the bill. It was noted that the registration of all the chasers was both designed to increase traffic security and simple monitoring of such chariots. It was then noted by the Committee that the second car used for a total weight of 750 kg, or less, may be homemade, with a reliable uncertainty about their condition, health, and survival. On the other hand, according to statistics, accidents are rarely caused by car failure and even fewer by accidents. At the same time, registration of the requested posts would include an increased cost for individuals as well as for the public. It was therefore believed that it had gone beyond the need for traffic safety and excessive heavy duties laid on the leftovers. In view of a small number of accidents and small dangers of desserts made for less than 750 kg, the Commission feels that the current changes in traffic laws are warranted, which are said to reverse the demands made. In the past too long to recommend a citizen's registration and observation warrant, the government should review and reevaluate such criteria. The Commission has a right to place rich vehicles in good condition, such as 1 and 3. Sixty-niner. traffic law, but it directs the Ministry to see if there are any details in the regulations regarding the construction and equipment of such vehicles. Then we would drive a wide, heavy, long, or haired vehicle. With a count of 9. the bill is presented with a 4 mg change. 82. g. The law of the law, taking the leave of the regulations established by the Minister on the grounds of a fifth-mg basis. 82. par, when absolutely necessary for special transport. The function is from the condition of the law that the CA needs to gain an approved threshold so that it can be extended to an exception. Instead, you need to get the approval of Vega. It is suggested that the new sentence be added to the requirement that the expanded access be given to appropriate conditions, e.g. that anyone who wishes to be such an exception should have the approval of others as appropriate. So if the device is abnormally heavy or large, or something that can specifically prevent it, you should be able to point it out with these specific conditions. It was noted that it is important to have a permanent decision-making authority to determine whether or not to be provided for special weight transport by your own means where a barrier is responsible for the state and safety of the road, and to maintain and perform such activities. There is a small advantage for the candidate to consult a single institution if he or she is asked to consult the relevant criteria established by the Agency. However, it was also stated that there were many exceptions each year and that they would not all be on the board of the local community as a barrier. The Commission considers it important that efficiency and economy are being maintained in this process for both the benefit to the candidate and to the development of the rural community. However, it is important that the controller be provided with information at the time of transfer, e.g. Very heavy on the road. The Commission therefore aims at a U.S. Association to shape the rules of procedure in this respect in consultation with rural areas. Since we are going to get this case back into the Committee for another matter that I come into here just after, we will possibly discuss whether this is sufficient to allow them to be given a longer term so that they do not need to be applied again and again. We'll discuss it a little bit more with the Committee whether or not there will be room within the existing rules. Then there is driving on foot streets that were talked a lot about. According to 1st mg. 10th par. The law says you're out walking. There are certain exceptions, e.g. is a driving vehicle equipped with motorized shelters. Notes were made in the implementation of a 1st-lined substitution. 10th par. It was noted that motor - driving vehicles on footways change the nature of the street and adversely affect the safety of pedestrians and others who live there. At the same time, the importance of motorists'ability to drive in a tunnel was highlighted, thus allowing them to obtain service in such an area. In view of this, it is important that motor disasters have access to shops and services equal to others, but at the same time safety is always felt for those who walk and stay on the streets. The Commission recommends cooperation by those responsible for walking holes and the interest of motor disasters in the implementation and implementation of the specified regulations and shows that there is an opportunity for the design of the roads to be secured at the same time. Then we're talking about a confidence clinic doctor. This is the very point that we will see if we can work out a better solution or any solution. Therefore, a respectable president, I wish that this case should return to the committee on this matter. Two, five, five, five, five, six, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, six, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, mg and 9 mg. Sixty-three. The law His role is the oversight of assessments of driving performance as well as medical exams. The regulations of a confidant were just stated on the 2019 traffic laws approved. A review of the Agency's work in implementing it and including the Agency, says that the directives have proved to be inexplicable beyond the scope of the Agency's work. Contact the medical personnel, the police, the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs, the Ministry of Health, the Attorney General, and the Ministry of Justice for this reason. However, they have failed to enforce the current laws of the law in order to achieve their purpose. There is an assessment by the Office of the Agency's private physician that is unnecessary and does not depend on the process under the revocation of driving rights. Clearly, the limitations of this law have to be addressed after the implementation of the 2019 law. This committee, in agreement with the police and the county, aims to review the role of a confidant and his approach to rerouting the driving rights of the committee and suggest appropriate adjustments in order to achieve its purpose. We need to see if we can make appropriate adjustments now before we finish this case. The Commission's proposal is two. First, the registration is mandatory on light motorcycles of category I. 72 par. The law is discussing the registration of a motor vehicle to a driver's license. Is It Wrong to Change Roads? No. 13/2015, became a light wheel of category I registration. A bill that became traffic law, No. 77/209, to dissociate light wheels in category I. However, as part of the council, the change in the proposal was adopted that a small car wheel of Class I would remain subject to registration with reference to such registration aided police monitoring of such motorcycles. As a result, the Transporter began registration of such vehicles. The committee found that a variety of vehicles fell under a light motorcycle in Class I, while their owners group was wide. The vehicles could be on two, three, four wheels. On the other hand, those who had two wheels were popular with youths; on the other hand, the ones on three and four wheels had only the older citizens and the disability that many viewed as an aid. The registration of these vehicles comes with both cost and effort. It would also be a fear among the owners of such devices that with registration, the cost could later be increased, as if insurance companies separate these devices into a special guarantee, which seems to be the case in these days. The committee believes that the registration of light - wheeled motorcycles of Class I has been more burdensome to citizens than material was available to them. This includes increased administrative burden, where the law is repetitive to the vehicles already in circulation. So it may be burdensome for individuals to record the wheels, especially since these were not expected when they were bought. There is also the cost of registering those who might increase if owners have to buy special insurance for such a bike. The committee noted that initially the registration warrant was due to the use of young people in the vests. Such vehicles have been reduced in this group, especially since the popularity of electric bikes has increased. As a result, older ones and micropunchers are more likely to view these wheels as an aid. With reference to the above, the Committee suggests that light wheel of category I will be excluded from registration. It's very important that this go out. If I just zoomed it out, it was like children were getting wallets for bar mitzvahs and they needed surveillance, and then once the registration rights had been set up and the kids were going to take it off, the children have stopped getting wallets and have started running wheels. Older citizens and those who have had some form of immobilization were left in the soup with registrational restrictions. So it's good for the committee to agree to unwind this. Then the Minister's Regulation has no rights, according to 3 mg. 89st. In 1st. 89st. The law says that since road work is being performed or traffic disturbed for other reasons, there is a danger that those in charge are obliged to make sure that the location will be marked properly. A manager may include those responsible for carrying out tasks in order to set up adequate markings. Then, according to 3 mg. 89st. that the minister shall set up additional regulations in the Regulation on either implementation or manner, including the preparation of the safety programme and the responsibility of the prescribers and contractors to ensure safety at the site of action. Inconsistencies between 1 and 3 mg were presented with the Committee's review. 89st. As the Regulation allows no interference for reasons other than road ventures. So suggested a change of 3 mg. So there was no doubt how to interpret it. Thus a secretary's authorization for implementation of regulations would be assured of all cases requiring measures to ensure the safety of road users. Other cases could be events such as street or town holidays as well as road sites for movie and factormaking. The committee agrees with the above viewpoints and therefore suggests that she is in session 3. 89st. traffic laws are added: events or other circumstances on which traffic may be compromised, so that there is danger. In view of this, the Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes it suggests and that I merely refer to the change in the box, which provides further information on what has been presented here. Ari Trausti Guðmundsson and the Guðjón of S. Brjánsson were away from the case but signed this opinion in 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Bergþór Ólason, Karl S. Hjaltason, and Brjánsson sign this opinion in advance that they intend to do in speaking. Other than this, Vilhjálmur Árnason, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Jón Gunnarsson, Hanna Friðriksson Fridikksson, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé and Linika Sævarsdóttir Savardótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u48	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. A senator to two points that have not been mentioned in the committee opinion, just to get a clear answer on how they have been discussed. First of all, a-a team 1st. in the bill that turns toward increasing the speed of ecosystems from 10 miles to 15 miles. In a paper with the bill, it's even justified. Based on the view of those who have to endure fines for breaking these speed limits, they say that this is in line with the speed of 15 miles per parking lot. There is no indication, however, that there are discrepancies at walking speeds of 10 miles [10 km]. Wouldn't it be normal, since cars and pedestrians share space as clearly as at an Ecorium and a tunnel, that the speed is closer to the speed that is not 15 miles, no matter how fast we walk? Were these addressed on the Committee? On the other hand, on the grounds of parking tickets in Article 11. and how they have been discussed. In other words, it is suggested that fines be used for violations against various matters involving cyclists. I wondered if the system is ready to accept such guilty warrants, in view of that, for example. how a discussion was made around the photon of the police in the capital area at the end of February by a bicycle rider in the Isthmus, where a clean cop was exposed to the regulations of bicycle riding, whether or not we need to fix the ground in the law before we begin to make a guilt suit against cyclists, which I don't think is the major cause of harm to the road.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u49	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for these two questions. True, they were both present for discussion on the committee and were subject to a considerable deal, include reviews from visitors, and so on. About 15 miles, going from 10 to 15 speed, we took the valid logic and reasons presented in the report that at this rate it would be small, it would be so brief and difficult to tell that it would be normal to have it as anywhere else, to change it for e.g. less results. No research or figures show that more traffic security is achieved at 5 miles per hour, so this was thought to be the most normal change and not considered a reason to discuss this in the committee's opinion. About 1 1. So much discussion was made for the bicycle riders. I agree that there's a little vague ground for parking, whether it's walking speed. The cyclists contributed to the pace of the race. We do not suggest that change because I think it is just as difficult to evaluate speed and speed, so it may not have achieved its goal of explaining something or doing something normal. All that counts is what is normal according to the circumstances, according to the general precaution. I'd think that's all we can do in this while we don't speed up bicycles.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u50	Mr. President. I'd like to discuss two of the bill I came in on just moments ago. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason. First, I'd like to step up to Team 1. The bill that's about raising speed from 10 miles to 10 miles to an ecosystem. The change was made when new traffic laws were approved here at Congress that the maximum rate in ecosystems were moved from 15 miles to 10 km. So it is only a short time since that change was made. Now the proposal has come from a minister to turn it around, and the evidence presented to that report seems to me to look on one side superabundantly rather than on any other side. It says, with the permission of a president, driving at more than two times the maximum rate, nothing less than three months of driving was taken away. As a result, the minister proposes to target the maximum speed at 15 miles per hour. To illustrate: In order to reduce traffic laws, people may be less likely to get more fines or to be deprived of their licenses, the speed to be cleared. What happens in contrast is that ecosystems will not be as safe to all other road users. In the bill's report, which became a valid road law, e.g., by permission of a president: Although streets are designed mainly for living and playing, driving vehicles still have restrictions. Cars are guests, according to this text. Artwork is designed mainly for living and acting. And in early traffic traffic, it was said that if pedestrians were near, they could not drive faster than usual walking speeds. It fell out when they put a clear seven-mile-an-hour limit on the dormitories. A respectable president. I simply think it's a wrong step to raise the maximum speed in an ecosystem so soon after it was placed in the current law. It would be a step that would counteract the purpose of the provisions according to the bill's report. In addition, this results in discrepancies with the speed limits in comparable streets. In the event that cars are allowed to drive on footways, they are allowed to drive at a speed of 10 miles per hour. Of course, walking speed is not a highly scientific unit, but a 10-mile speed is a nice speed and a 15-mile speed is just the best running speed. If a car stays within a maximum speed, it is still at 20 miles per hour, an extremely dangerous speed for the reconstituted road space of ecosystems. So here I consider it right and normal to go at a speed that is 15 miles maximum speed of cars, no matter where we set the target at the speed of walking. So I would suggest, in view of the fact that the committee is taking the matter into account, that this will be examined more carefully and that it is not to be removed. The second item I would like to discuss is the guilt warrant suggested in Article 11. the bill, i.e. An article that suggests that guiltys are to be used in violations of regulations 43.g. traffic song on a license for motorcyclists. It is, in fact, there. The duty of bicycle riders is to exercise caution, especially when riding on a sidewalk, hiking, or walking street, and turning aside from pedestrians, using bells, and everything. I agree with what. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason, 43rd. traffic law has very vague grounds for fines, since the law was not necessarily set up to be the basis for fines. Furthermore, the need for this change is unclear. In support of the bill, we find that there is some analysis of the general lack of consideration for racers. It is best to refer to vague reports on community media, in which the discussion becomes an amazing number of intense expressions of anger toward cyclists. From the end of February, a close - knit example is that the police in the capital area published a picture that a passer had sent to her. There the passer had asked if it was legal to cycle in the middle of the road and to cause traffic delay in a road that allowed 50 miles [50 km] of speed. The film was taken out at Enugrada, and a survey on the GPS of the particular racer revealed that it was at a speed of about 70 miles [47 km], so it did not cause much delay. However, the driver who took a picture under the wheel felt that he was not allowed to be on the street with the police. This is where the police in the capital area said, with the permission of a president: ▪ Where allowed maximum velocity is 50 miles per hour. Therefore, in the field where the picture is taken, it is forbidden to cycle in the middle of a lane. It's just wrong. It has, for example. Observed in the reply of the attorney general to a query sent by Sigurður Jónas Eggertsson and published yesterday in the Facebook area called "Present of Bicycle Prayer, " if I recall correctly. It shows that a U.S. Marshal interprets it as allowed for bicycles to be in the middle of a lane with a maximum speed of 50 miles. Depending on the circumstances, it may be forbidden or not. And since this particular cyclist was on the oath, it seems that he was in perfect justice despite what the police in the capital area say. But what this shows and the reason why I mention this particular example is that it is only legally unsure how to interpret traffic laws. Most of the things under 43 C.E. are legally uncertain. I'd think a traffic law. In addition, it is unclear what the purpose of having a guilt warrant would be on the basis of their laws. So, in view of all of this, I'm going to return to the environment and transport committee, who intends to take the case between discussions, to see if it can't be dropped at 11. The bill, because it's possibly a good idea that just needs a lot more thought before it's made up.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u51	Mr. President. We will discuss a bill for changes in traffic laws, No. 77/209. We've been listening to the Commission's opinion on the environmental and transport bill since then. Employee Vilhjálmur Árnason. The bill is aimed at repairing several problems, reducing the administrative burden and the cost of citizens, simplifying the process of granting certain sources and simple members of the Member States collect for specific points and clarifying expressions of several regulations. Then, as part of the implementation of European Parliament and EU Regulations, the bill is to make a consistent calculation of the emissions of carbon dioxide for new people's cars and new light employment equipment, to name something. There are some adjustments to the 15 branches of the law. Most of these are of this sort not necessarily an issue. These are updates and items being made more clear or in uniform that the letter of the law is more difficult to enforce, and there is, of course, always an unambiguous option. These are all valid points and points, as one historian has noted. There is one example, perhaps not a heavyweight saying, that it is permitted to use the embargo that controls a bicycle or a horse, or to try, under the strong influence of alcohol or other stimulating agents, that the person is simply struggling with it so safely. That law is made clearer and effective. I signed under the Commission's opinion of the environment and transport committee in advance which merely leads to that vision, the goals that I feel are lacking in this bill, the prevention, the traffic security and climate targets. It is my opinion that it is not in harmony with our view to traffic safety to raise the maximum possible speed in ecosystems. It conflicts with the constant effort to reduce traffic accidents, especially where children are likely to be near roads, or in or around their homes, where we are going to have their roads. This is called a different bill for changes in traffic laws about the maximum speed decrease, which is slow. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson has offered and mentioned the preceding part of his talk, and I am delighted. The lower limit of urban traffic speed is one of the main factors in increasing traffic security, especially when it comes to problems between motor vehicles and vulnerable road users, where there is a rapid impact on the risk of accidental injury, injury, injury damage, and so on, multiple accidents. There, the severity of a collision tends to depend on the speed of a car. The objective of the government in Iceland is quite clear. It is that the number of deaths per 100,000 people per person will not exceed the lowest in other nations before 2034, and the number of deaths and serious road injuries typically decline by about 5% per year to 2034. It hasn't been caught yet. We're in third place in the North, behind Finns, where traffic deaths are mostly, more than four per 100,000 people. Then Danir and I, the Icelanders, come with about 2.2 deaths per 100,000 inhabitants, as shown in a walking agency report on road accidents by 2020. It should be noted, however, that in 2020 there was a very special year for both traffic and accidents, but also for society as a whole. That's what the epidemic does. In general, that year will probably always be taken to some extent out of parentheses. In this regard, a living room wants to interpret the statistics very carefully, and that's a good idea. Our accident rates have varied greatly from year to year in recent decades. Of course, it is perturbing to watch the effects of a reduction in the number of tourists, a decrease in traffic, and other factors in the accident statistics. A living room also reports that the cost of road accidents is huge and estimated that by 2020, the lower side damage was affected, the cost is about 40 billion. Iceland's government has been working to reduce the number of deaths and serious accidents in public traffic, e.g. by reducing the speed of traffic. That process began in 1995, or so on. We've been moving to Sweden, which has introduced a so - called zero vision into traffic security. A negative view is that there are no fatal accidents or serious accidents in traffic, but since the introduction of the policy in Sweden in 1997, road accidents have been able to reduce half of their ability to drive. In the wake of this campaign, one so - called Stockholm Document, which has led to its objective being a part of the United Nations World Goals, which involves reducing the number of deaths and serious injurys due to road accidents by half the world. Pointed to that fact. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson in his report with his excellent bill, and I think it should have been a stronger and more powerful guide for this work. Also, apart from all the security factors, traffic speed affects various types of pollution and can reduce the quality of life for people. Then we are happy to talk about noise, hover dust, typhus of tires, or air pollution. There are factors that increase the weight of the community talk and become more important and lightier as eco-friendly energy sources gain greater opportunities for driving, and this aspect is constantly being taken earlier in the discussion. Mr. President. To these things, my warnings turn on this bill, which I believe otherwise is the best. But I might have. Choose to see the emphasis in other ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u52	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a resolution of a new translation of the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. The proposal suggests that a new translation be accepted from the translation accompanying a proposal for Congress resolution No. 61/145 on validation of the contract. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of Poor People was adopted at the UN General Assembly in December 2006. Iceland signed the contract in March 2007 and validated it in September 2016. The objective of the contract is to promote, defend and ensure full human rights and fundamental freedoms for disabled people as well as for others. As is customary with international rights agreements, the contract was translated into Icelandic for its validation. The official translation of the treaty followed the motion required to conclude no. 61/145 in 2016, but this translation, along with the English version of the contract, was accompanied by an advertisement of No. 5/2016, published in C Division of the Management Board, 29 June 2017. However, the translation has been criticized by both the educational community and the dissociative groups of people with disability. This work started with writing in Iceland's first report on the implementation of the contract recently returned to the United Nations Committee on the rights of disabled people and was strongly stressed with disabled people as well as with other stakeholders. In that conversation, indications and criticism of the translation were striking and repeated that translation into some terms was wrong, based on misunderstandings, and even in some cases considered contrary to the objectives of the agreement. In view of the importance of Icelandic translation of international human rights agreements, it was decided to revise the translation. The team appointed to write Iceland's first contract report was holding the project with the help of a specialist in the rights of disabled people at the University of Iceland. The current translation was reviewed in the light of comments made from the educational community, stakeholders, and other sources. A high priority has been given to consultation with the work, and the translation has reached a good agreement, as well as to which it is considered to reflect well the originals of the contract. Among the major changes that have been made in the translation, it is suggested that people who are disabled no longer be spoken of as an anomaly, such expressions are disparaging and out of harmony with the ideologies proclaimed by the Convention. Rather, respect for diversity is referred to. Another example is that in the present - day sense, the term "freedom of choice " is translated as" freedom of movement. " Other translations in the current version are believed to narrow the meaning of the original text. Take a few examples, such as ◯access to jostice-š, now translated as access to the justice system, but if the new translation is accepted, it will be translated as access to the court. Then it is suggested that a legal entity, rather than arbitrarily, be translated as a legal entity. In addition, some more word changes are suggested in explaining, making the translation more accessible, and in much better harmony with the original text. V.E.G. President. I have now explained the subject of the proposal and suggest that it be followed by this discussion referred to why. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u53	V.E.G. President. I would recommend a bill of a change in the law of ultimate punishment, No. 15/2016, with subsequent changes. The bill suggests temporary changes in the laws of community service and parole in order to shorten the list of service cards for imprisonment. The list of individuals who are fully awaiting the full course of the prison facility has increased to a considerable extent during the past few years. At the end of the last year, 706 subjects were listed, compared to 300 subjects in 2010. As a result, the average waiting time after the execution of the sentence has increased and the expiration of unenlightened judgments have increased. It is urgent to take action. In March of last year, I appointed a team of service groups to cut off the penalties. The group returned a report at the end of June in which there were several suggestions for action, including the necessary adjustments to legal requirements for full terms of community service and parole. This bill therefore responds to the proposals of the group. The bill suggests that there will be temporary provision for the legal administration as the home of a prison facility to complete up to 24 months of unscheduled prison with community service, but under current regulations, the Agency is permitted to fulfill up to 12 months of an illegal prison with community services. It is also suggested that the same is true in the case of more than one sentence and in the case of perjury of prison punishment. This must therefore be allowed to serve in a community service when the total punishment or total punishment is up to 24 months instead of 12 months in current law. A report by the work group on the cut - off list was suggested that this change be made permanent in view of the quality of community service so far, a decision was made to make this warrant temporary. During the time of the provision, you will then be monitored for the impact of changes, including on-going data to assess the potential for such future changes. But there is also a need to consider whether a decision to make community service remains a administrative decision or in the hands of courts. The bill also suggests the change that a prison facility will be temporarily permitted to provide prisoners with less sentence than 90 days incorruptional prison parole five days before parole would otherwise have been granted and prisoners with longer penalties than 90 days incorruption ten days before parole. This is made up of a Norwegian model, a temporary resort while working on the short - tailed list. The changes proposed by the bill are still temporary and are intended to shorten the letter list and to reduce the number of expiration punishments and to shorten the duration of the sentence. If nothing is done, it can lead to further multiplicity, and this is unacceptable in view of the warning effects of punishment. Punishment of punishment adversely affects the warning effects of punishment, both general and specific. It is also unacceptable that the number of tolerances to be executed should begin a few years after the fall of a sentence, but it is known that the warning effect of possible imprisonment will be reduced when waiting for an execution will take several years. In addition, longer waiting for a sentence - to - sentence sentence sentence to be severe, even turning away from the course that led to criminal behaviour, recovery from alcohol and/or drug abuse, building a family, and in some cases studying or working. Thus, a long wait for a loan can have a opposite effect, but those who were targeted by the reform policy that the government wants to emphasize. If the bill of the law is expected to increase temporarily by one year in a prison facility, this cost is rated annually for 11 billion. Q, but costs are expected to be included in the budget of the environment. The bill is not expected to have a financial impact on the communities. As part of the preparation of this bill, the Convention was made to the Prison Department, it was published in the government's consultations on January 29, 2021, and the public was given the opportunity to make comments and tips. A review was given by Research, a companion of prisoners, who were generally positive toward the bill, especially in terms of the evacuation of community service. A respectable president. I have great faith that by changing and improving the possibility of culminating punishment with increased community service and removing the arts of preaching, we are coming to meet the group waiting for the execution of penalties that can be self - punishment. I have now explained the subject of the bill and suggested that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to why. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u54	A respectable president. When I started reading this bill, I thought it was a bit much. However, I have questions about its purpose, i.e. The reasons why this change is being made, especially how it is reflected in the fact that these are preliminary regulations. To my knowledge, community service is a resource that can work just fine, at least for a group of prisoners. I have to say that I was a little surprised that the situation that a prisoner has a possible choice is marked by something such as the length of the witnessing list, something that the prisoner has no power over, something that the prisoner's crime has nothing to do with, and something that has nothing to do with the imprisonment itself, except to the extent that the possibility of improvement is possible. Well, at least maybe. I think it's a little strange to have it temporarily out of these conditions. So I wonder and ask the highest. Minister of Justice: Were these provisions considered permanent? And if not, why not? Likewise, if it is not permanent, is it not expected that the same problem will simply exist later?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u55	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this and completely agree that the change such as it is very important, away from the position on the witnessing list. I had radical suggestions work on my preaching list. Much of that prison space has been judged a year, but it is the testimony list that prevents us from letting these roll normally, and people have to wait longer than three years for abduction. So I wanted to take drastic action to remove this testimony list, as we have seen happening in the countries around us, and this was one of the suggestions that came from the service group. He suggested that this change be permanent. I am satisfied that the process will be made permanent, but I suggest that it be temporary for three years so that we can better evaluate the impact of the changes, including some of the changes. on driver's rate. I believe this could reduce the frequency of return. I have faith that this will result in great success for those who commit crimes and receive a sentence that will then be a community service. I believe that it can be considered in a better way than that it was achieved in the preparation of this bill, whether such future changes are desirable, as well as to consider more often, if this were permanent, whether a decision for community service should be a administrative decision or in the hands of the courts. It varies from country to country around us. I think this discussion would be much heavier and bigger, and it's normal to take it, it needs to be taken out. But I suggest that this will be done in this way for three years, which has proved to be well and useful, and at that time, it will be possible to make permanent and hopefully change in this direction for a long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u56	A respectable president. I happen to agree with the highest degree. A minister said that it would be better to keep the law permanently. I don't quite understand it, given the highest answers. Minister, why is that not permanent in the bill? I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if there is anything to be said about the situation. The General and Education Committee changes the bill to that being, at least I can't hear a speech at the highest level. Minister she had nothing to do with it. I also have to say, regardless of this, that I would like to have this law inside, simply because I think it is more convenient for me to do the business of the prison system, which, in my opinion, should be tried but at least a response to crime and what we should do to people who are wronging and who are obviously forced to punish. I think it's a very natural part of the question about whether we want such a change or not. I realize this testimony list problem, it's not new even if it's getting worse, but I think it's a strange impulse for a change. I would have thought that the motivation for such a change would simply be that we thought that a prison system was better and better to fall, for example. reduce recurrence rate and such. But then we'd always, I suppose, put in a permanent change that we would then act afterwards. But anyway, I'm going to take a short talk, if a respectable president puts me on the rosary at the end of these answers, and go out into it only as the highest. In fact, a minister went over the matter of making decisions as to the nature of the punishment, which is strange and varied according to countries, as the minister went over. But I understand the highest. A minister so that at least she would not oppose it if the committee remembered her discussion suggested that these regulations be made permanent.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u57	A respectable president. That's right, I wouldn't put myself in particular, but I suggest this is temporary, both because I thought this change would take a shorter time, go through the council faster, so we'd be successful with it at this council. I also felt that we would want to see if courts should judge community services, how they react to crime in the system. There is no point in considering it at work. General Education and Education Committee, e.g. On a scale with the other North countries where courts have this authority to judge, there is a larger change in the resources generally successful in a prison facility, in applying community service to a certain extent. I would say that the motivation is not just the witnessing list, which is part of the problem, and all the changes suggested to master it, get it down, but also to improve our prison system. It's all up to the reform policy and the other things we're working on, me and the social minister, and connected. To work as Tolli Morthens leads to increased reform, or recovery, as it is called, in order to get active individuals back into the community after the imprisonment, which is our job; to punish for crime, to make a warning effect, but at the same time, it makes possible that the person might come back more readily to Iceland. That work, and that motivation, is also behind such changes. This change takes less time, so I suggested that it be temporary. But I guess. The General and Education Committee will review this and discuss possible ideas that have often developed, whether courts should be authorized to judge community services.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u58	A respectable president. We will here discuss a bill on a change in the law of full penalties, adding two preliminary rules, one allowing the full penalty of non-employable community service, as well as a provisional principle for granting a prisoner parole five days before it is granted. That change, as mentioned in the Sermon on the Mount. Minister of Justice, and answer to him who stands here, including The result, as I understand it, was set up by a justice minister in order to suggest measures to shorten a letter list for the execution of penalties. These Kingdom - preaching arts have come to an end in recent years as discussed in the bill's report. The talk about a witnessing list is not new. She is many years old and has always been a problem. In fact, there are cases where people who are sentenced to prison never go to prison because of too long time spent in prisons. It has to be made known that a person who commits a crime and receives a sentence for that prison has changed his life and is no longer a threat to society or is not likely to go back, yet, nevertheless, the sufferer has the responsibility to go to prison unless, of course, the punishment goes away. She will when the wait is too long. I think it's totally normal. We cannot offer it to people, even if we have to use prison punishments, that they simply put their lives on hold because of their nature as well as certain forms of punishment and indeed, a loss of freedom because while people don't know whether or when they're going to prison, they can start out badly or incompetently organize their lives, even if they change everything that was involved in the sentence of the individual to be imprisoned at first. It is difficult to establish a relationship or employment relationship, let alone or something like it, to change one's life in some large way when this future is unknown and indistinguishable, depending on what seems to be a certain dury or a system problem that really has nothing to do with the offender. To overcome this situation, a group of judicial ministers were appointed, who I appreciate and understand fully and are positive. This is one of the suggestions that came out. In the case of the highest. The minister of justice explained that the task force had proposed to make this change that we will discuss permanently here. What I have for this bill to look into and see what it is. A global and educational committee will review, and hopefully these provisions for expedited community services are temporary, to the center of 2024. I understood the best. The minister of justice in the past so that the aim of temporarily making these changes would be that it would be easier to get through the council quickly and, on the other hand, to form a strange question about where these decisions are at home. Speaking of which I can go right away; there have been sometimes questioned and criticized that it is a prison facility that really determines the nature of the punishment offered for prisoners. Now it may be quite normal to some degree, to form in the case of cases of punishment in prisons or so on, as well as in evaluating whether the individual is a dangerous community or something like that. But here, the power is placed in the hands of prison authorities because that's how our system is, at least, the way it is. I'm not sure that that's a good idea, or at least I believe that courts should have sufficient authority to judge for community service, as well as that we should view community service for the sake of the clients of the system, which, on the other hand, are victims of crime and criminals themselves. The objective of having punishment at first is multiple, but it must be for some preconceived reason, such as making a lesson for the wrongdoer. That's one part of it, trying to get it done so that the person who violates and violates others'rights won't do it again because if he does it, something bad will happen to the same person. Nothing complicated here or in the jungle, if you go to it. Another factor is to show the community that there are consequences. When victims of crime observe that nothing will follow, their confidence that justice can be achieved by the peaceful ways of the Republic and the state of justice is achieved. There are reasons like this. But I don't think that the reason we make punishments like that or gays should be connected with some systematic problem, such as the length of a witnessing list. Now I realize that it's the highest. The Minister of Justice does not have any of the berryads here to choose off the way to shorten this list. I realize that, I respect that problem. However, in the past, I also know that there is a trend in systems such as the criminal defense system and systems that have great and decisive power over liberty-like individuals in order to let their interests of the same individuals go away when questions about systematic factors or what might even be called convenience factors. When our authority over people of freedom is great and, in some cases, almost limitless, in any case, within the legal structure, the world's major problems often revolve around such things as this, a witnessing list, or such. No doubt many prisoners would have proposed the same change, but it would have been other reasons, a respectable president, not just for them to go this way rather than be in prison, for nothing at all certain that all prisoners want to do so. But if we were to ask about the purpose of the prison system in the first place, I think we'd find that conclusion, in fact, we'd think we'd make some changes in the prison system. And I think that we would clearly have these changes lasting even if we still have to live with the strange question whether we have a decision at the prison facility or in the courts. My conclusion is that these things are more relevant to courts, at least to a much greater extent, because it makes me think that it is much more likely to turn to other factors than any question about a witnessing list. I wondered if we should, according to this, in itself, ask the question when courts will have a guilty and to endure, say a four - year prison or similar, if courts would ever say that the time should be cut down to three years to shorten the testimony list. I don't think that would happen. It reflects a little bit my point. Here's the European Commission - for understandable reasons, I'm not scrutinizing a justice minister or a prison justice agency here, I think this is the natural consequence of the arrangement we have or the predictable consequences, let's say. A public - preaching list is a systematic problem, some about funding the system, how many prison spaces we have, where they are, whether they are suitable for hosting this or the other prisoner, etc. There are a number of complications in assuming that people of liberty, contrary to what many seem to think. When these complications come into play on the board of the system, which applies to the testimony list and the like, the system of events suggests that the way these as courts would never be considered based on the reasons of the crime committed, the interests of the community, or the ability of the prisoner to -- now I don't know how to put it correctly, a respectable president, this will now offend someone - to change his way in the wake of punishment. After all, a respectable president, I still support the case. I think it is better to have the law, rather than the law. But I would think it would also be better to have them lasting, and especially since they now apply for more than three years, I think there is plenty of time to evaluate the effect and to react with legislation if necessary, especially because it is a warrant. If it became evident at a prison facility or to the executive authority at all that these provisions were not effective, it would have no positive effect but only some kind of negative influence that we can imagine, I suppose this warrant would simply be used less. So I don't have any fault with having these rules, I just have a flaw in keeping them temporary. But I'd like to make a decision here with the highest reply. Minister of Justice, that it would not specifically oppose the continuation of these regulations. General and Education Committee. It's a good idea. But right here at the end of the minute, I'm only gonna have to complain as soon as we have our chance. I'd like to complain about some misunderstanding I believe is about the prison system. It has been said throughout history about reform policy and criminalism. Now, I guess it's not fashion anymore. It's some other wording I have to admit that I'm not exactly on which to be on at the moment, but I'm going to call it reform policy and reform for now. I'm sure I'll be corrected for that afterwards, I suppose. But in order to be effective in reformal policy, the prison system must be well financed. There is no way simply to set in law to have some reformal policy and to contribute to reform without funding to make it possible. Things that have been designed to promote reform in the prison system, such as increased education, better psychology services, increased employment, or occupational involvement of some kind, all cost money, a respectable president. It's just that way. I find it personally boring at the Council how we are often too much to do so clearly, but then when it comes to financing them, they do not think it is obvious that they need to have priorities. When it comes to certain social groups, the reason is obvious and I think it's obvious in this context, a respectable president, we're talking about prisoners. This means that people look into some sympathetic aspect of their souls looking for the right answers and may have less sympathy for someone who has sinned against laws and may even resort to serious violence in some case rather than to sensitive groups such as children or older citizens or inmates or what to be. I understand that. But we must not allow it to blind us to what is wise to do about the system we have designed to deal with this problem that moves us to have prison punishment. Most important, here at the final sanctuaries, we can't just blame prisoners that we need jails and people locked up against their will. It is also a social problem. It is also part of the community's fault. While this is an unpopular group and a group that certainly have acted according to definition, we cannot afford to lose the responsibility to bring about the better outcome. This means that we must spend money on the solutions we will offer. I'm going to make that the final words of my speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u59	V.E.G. President. I recommend here for a bill to legalize the State Church. This is a total law designed to replace existing laws on the status, administration and practices of the National Church, No. 78/1997. By that law the church's independence was greatly increased, and a decision - making authority on the order of the State Church was extended to a greater extent. The trend has then been held by further changes in the law, and the synod has increasingly set out procedures on many aspects of the church's once law - bound administration. Thus the church government has gradually been changing, and considerable experience has been built up in the work of the synod. The bill is based on the evolution and more than 20 - year experience of a church council. Thus, the bill allows for an even greater independence of the National Church and aims to present as much of the principles involved in the church's conduct on the Council's Rabies. The subject of the bill can be attributed to an additional agreement on a revision of a so - called church meeting from 1997 and a contract for further implementation of it from 1998 signed by the representatives of the Icelandic State and the National Church on September 6, 2019. The additional treaties were aimed at simplifying the government's payments for the National Church as well as increasing the independence of the National Church on finance and staff. The Convention aims to ensure that the National Church is fully responsible for its own finances and the number of employees. To enforce the content of the contract, two law-change laws were adopted, including The laws on the status, administration and conduct of the National Church, the rights and duties of the personnel of the state and the law on the pension fund of the employees of the state. According to the law of No. 153/2019, especially as a fund for the church because of its annual pay to the National Church, as stated by the law of No. 95/2020. With the added agreement, a declaration of will was followed, stating that representatives of the National Church and State are working to review the current national law with the aim of simplifying its regulations. This work has been done in recent years, building a bill on the cooperation of the Ministry of Justice and the representatives of the Congregation for an overall review of the laws on the National Church. Was the bill, including approved at Council of September 15, 2020. The purpose of the bill is also to promote the independence of the Church of America, and to simplify its rules very much by studying a number of laws on its function rather than by hiding a body of authority on it by the rules of law. In fact, there are many laws that have already been passed on to the Council's regulations. In accordance with the development of the law, this source is significantly extended with even greater independence from the church. Since the bill contains significant changes from current law and contains much fewer laws on the State Church than on the law today, it has been chosen to offer a bill to new overall laws instead of changing the law. The bill discusses the basis of the Church of Nations and its definition and contact with the State, but the same laws are in today's law. It is new that church service, both dedicated and other services held out by the church, is being discussed, which is the equal ministry. There is a law on entry and exodus from the National Church, which is based on the law on written religions and principles of life and is discussed in the parish and congregation of the National Church. However, it contains only basic rules, but in accordance with the objective of the bill, the Council is expected to include additional regulations on this matter on the rules of action. Then there is a synod that has the highest authority in the affairs of the National Church, including a governmental authority now proposed to be specifically imposed in the law. There are some key matters regarding elections for the council and elections of the Council, which remain unchanged from the current law, while it is assumed that there will be a rule on other aspects of the Council, which are now recommended in the law. Then there's a new bill on the Senate payment if the members of the council have a special interest in handling them. The regulations for bishops and diocese are literally the same as those in the current law, but there are much fewer. For example, there is expected to be strict violations of the Council's regulations. While agreements between the National Church and the State are still in harmony with what is stated in the law today, there is now a revised statement on the annual pay of the State to the State in accordance with the new added agreement. One of the main changes involved in the bill is law 8. to establish protocols on the affairs of the National Church. Although the Council currently establishes a number of procedures on the basis of current legislation, this law contains much more comprehensive and general authority on the implementation of rules, as the law of the law is being carried out today that the Council establishes rules for specific matters. However, the bill suggests that a number of laws of the current law will be removed, and instead of them, the Council lays out rules that are on other factors that it feels the need for an end does not conflict with the general law. The bill of this includes a significant simplicity of the order of the National Church, and if the law, its independence will greatly increase and its decision - making authority will be at the hands of the synod. It may also be suggested that a number of earlier legal regulations and regulations from the 18th century C.E. and the first part of the 19th century go away, many of which are long out - of - date or have run their course. Much of what it says is now laid down in the Council's regulations, but among them is the Cinderelly's letter on the arrangement for church living. The bill is a step toward the full separation of Church and State. This is a modern law that is being moved to remove a number of groundless regulations in the law once it has been decided that the church will take over a financial and internal organization. I have expressed my view that policy should be directed toward the point of separating state and church. I did, for example. ... ina address to the council. But I think it's important to slowly step on the ground and step in that direction. This bill is a part of it, but it is employed in the good cooperation of the Ministry and the representative of the National Church. It is suggested that the bill take place on July 1, 2021, so that a Synod can in accordance with a new law prepare a sentence and a change of rules of practice and agree on events at the next council that are scheduled to be held in the fall. A respectable president. I have now explained the key points of the bill and suggested that the case be followed by this discussion. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u60	A respectable president. I must admit that I sometimes find it a little special to listen to people talking about segregation of state and church, especially the church is talking about segregation of state and church in the case of increasing church independence, while it continues to have the special privileges it enjoys under the cover of government and history. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: In the steps that a minister says he wants to take in the full separation of state and church, where on this journey will the Church become absolutely the same place as other religious and biological organizations, including financial? You see, it seems that there will always be. The church's independence may be increased in the sense that it has a higher power than that it has special government support, so to speak, does not seem to change much of its equalness. I wondered if there is any misunderstanding in my analysis at the highest level. Minister of Justice may point me in. The question is, as I put it earlier: At what point on this journey of Church and State separation, Ministers of Justice consider it appropriate to make the financial status of the National Church of State exactly the same as other religious and principles?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u61	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator that in general the need for equality between different religions and society is increasingly prominent, especially among the younger generation. An independent church, regardless of the State, is also more compatible with freedom of worship and religious freedom than with the uniqueness enjoyed by the Church in the Icelandic government. Soon after making a donation, we need to consider the following steps. I intend to do it with work at the next step I think we need to take sometime. I don't think that it would be acceptable to give a bill for a full separation of state and church. Rather, it is important to settle matters between different groups and to find out both of them as well. A senator mentions the funding, as well as the church's services and services today. To me, it is not a question that the Church can care for all its assignments completely independent of the state. I think we're taking one step toward increasing her independence, that the various aspects of the law aren't required, but more is involved. I'll take a look at these factors and work on them. Of course, such factors need to be considered. A senator mentioned but also the general arrangement of parishes and many other factors. I think we've taken an important step. One step was a bill that the church's employees were no longer public employees. This new bill is certainly a new universal law, but it adds to the church's simple rules and laws and increases its independence.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u62	A respectable president. The complaint of those outside the National Church has not centered on the fact that the Church is not enjoying enough independence in its activities. Rather, it is that people who are members of that church who care for their otherwise desirable services have special privileges, special financial privileges, in order to make them feel that a person who intends to use the services of another religion or a philosophy of life often has to pay higher fees for the same service. The reason is, not that these laws were not there, but that the church is very special, so that stronger words are not used, a very special financial relationship to a government fund based on contracts such as the highest. The Minister of Justice mentioned that the members of the National Church were no longer public employees. A respectable president. People who want religious law have not been fighting specifically that members of the National Church belong to the other or to this group. Rather, they want to rule out the inequities of how this unhealthy financial relationship between state and State is and, as far as I can see, should remain. I don't see any evidence of any of the best efforts at all. The Minister of Justice separating state and church entirely in this bill or in government plans usually, especially in an updated church meeting that was merely a cause for discomfort, forgiveness of speech, a respected president, a permanent president, contrary to the requirement for religious equality. At what point do the segregation of Church and State follow the separate financial conditions? When will we get as much religious talk in Iceland as possible? Minister of Justice claims to agree?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u63	A respectable president. The church meeting is about payment for property. It is based on delivery of property to the State and has nothing particularly to do with this bill. [[Up front.]] But it may have nothing to do with the separation; it may have to be paid in return for property that is, of course, needed to be solved. It is a bigger issue and needs to be solved in a larger way. The arrangement for meeting was one step rather than a step in increasing the church's independence, taking care of financial matters for herself. So I think it took one step in that direction as far as it was concerned. A senator points in. Of course, there are fees to equal religion. That's where the equation is. Other religions also receive a fee payment if it is registered in an appropriate religion. So you can also make sure that you don't stir it together in a single stir. We are simplifying the rules of the State Church, increasing its independence, simplifying its regulations, and removing various laws and directives from some centuries ago. It is an important step on this road. But I think it'll be most successful if you take it in a few steps, as suggested here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u64	Mr. President. This is a new universal law on the State Church, which will include a significant stream of regulations from the existing law on status, government, and conduct of the National Church, and an increase in independence. As seen in the highest grade. Ministers greatly increase the independence of the National Church, and their decision - making authority will be largely in the hands of a synod. According to this bill, the National Church will become more independent in all its activities, and I'll celebrate it. The Icelandic state pays the National Church yearly on the basis of agreements between the National Church and the State. By agreement with State and Church since 1907, the State was given oversight of the Church's land, which then owned about 25% of the country. In 1997, the state of the world took possession of the earth. The church handed over its land estates to pay in the form of a certain number of priests and employees. We know this, and we've discussed it here. The arrangement is unfashionable. As was also seen in the highestv. Then, in September 2019, a further agreement on the financial issues of state and church has been adopted here at the General Assembly. Mr. President. I am a loyal advocate of the church, and I am not surprised by any of these events. I would have, for example. Wanting to see the church be more active in a public talk. The church is often silent in matters of great importance to my judgment. Thus, the church is not to be silent when it comes to Christian beliefs, Christian values, and Christian culture in our fine country. It is also not to be kept silent when it comes to the persecution of Christians who are living in many parts of the world. According to the United Nations, hundreds of Christians each month fall from persecution. It is estimated that 245 million Christians are severely persecuted for their faith, but more than 4,000 were killed last year. 80% of the world's religious persecutions are directed against Christians. The church's concern for refugees is well - known, but it also reminds us that Christians are the most prominent religious group in the world who suffer from persecution. I would like to draw attention to what the bill says, in the chapter on its effect, by permission of the president: It will be a simple framework, but councils will set or accept protocols, agreed and determined on all functions of the Church... Now the bill has been given much preparation within the church, as stated in the bill, and in that preparation I know that the emphasis was placed on ensuring that what fell from the current law would be treated in the council's operating procedures. Then it is reasonable to ask: Has the Council completed its work sufficiently in this regard? I believe that the lyrics of the law or the bill cannot be arranged unless it is shown that the church has also done its homework and that it has done so sufficiently. There is something that the committee has to review, in my opinion, in her duties and calls to visitors who can help to understand that the role of the Council in this process is completed so that everyone can make good use of it. In fact, and I believe that it would be a bit irresponsible on the part of the legislatator not to try to ensure that the church operates within a clear code of law, including the way it is assigned to set internal rules. The Council's regulations have been based on the current legislation and have received a number in the same way as the Council's regulations. Now it can be said that they are lost and, in fact, no one cares for the church but her own. In the case of mass movement, as the church truly is, though the state church in the past few years has greatly reduced, I would be cautious about these matters, although I would not want to return to more interference from the church by the government. I also feel that it is too extreme to turn the church into a business, as it were. The rights of priests, testers, and bishops are confused, and all authority is placed in the hands of central government in the Bishop's office, although it is supposed to be that a Synod is the supreme authority in church affairs, except for the doctrine and ritual. That authority continues with the bishop, but the position of the bishop against the synod and the church as a whole is inaccurate at my judgment. Mr. President. The oldest office in Iceland is the Bishop's office. So it is part of our history, part of our church history, and our inheritance. The bill assumes to change it so that the office it would no longer exist but that it would be just like any other job. Or ask: Should the bishop be a kind of director who is supposed to have full control of the business that the church is supposed to be, as it were? It's a question of whether one makes too much of a factor. I must say, Mr. President, I feel humiliated by the Bishop's office and the cultural aspect of Iceland's history that there will be no such things anymore. I believe, Mr. President, that the Bishop's office will be allowed to say so, even though the Bishop may no longer be the official official of the state. Only by the change in church status did he make the Constitution. Though the bishop became a member of the king's care through the Reformation, there was no change in his office in a church sense. Nor will the holy priesthood and sermon office be legally laid down unless it is banned from the church. It is enough to indicate that there was no change in this, according to German Orthodox and German law, although there was a full separation of state and church in Germany in 1919. Therefore, Mr. President, I believe it is reasonable for the committee to review this aspect of the matter. This is, as I rightly said, the oldest office in Iceland history. Should we not keep such traditions, since this is now part of our cultural history? I'll remind you, for example. According to Britain, people wear various titles and traditions because of history. It cannot stand to forbid the church to speak of office because the church is no longer state - bearing and church officials are no longer public employees. Priests, priests, and bishops of the church have been allowed to serve as officials without cause, even though the law has long established that only those who serve in the State or State. I don't know that the Church was ever owned by the State, even when it was pure government. Finally, Mr. President, over the past few decades, the church has had to face up to new issues. Times have changed, and the population has declined. Hence, unlike the previously viewed national and national churches as a unit, the church has had to be defined to a greater degree as one of the many institutions of society. There's a lot of good things in this bill, but there's still some things that need to be fixed, and I hope the committee is looking for it. In the past, the highest was mentioned. Ministers on church door, and I especially miss canceling certain church orders. They are remarkable in themselves, and all they need to do is look to the churchhouses of Hallim, an amazing work of art. I hope the bill is treated well at the council. I believe the Church of Nations is important to Icelandic society in the past, in the present, and in the future. It is an important testimony that as a nation we stand on the historic and cultural foundation of Christian faith and values. We are to protect that heritage and its effects in Icelandic society, an inheritance based on the fact that Icelandic society and Christian custom are now in harmony.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u65	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the speech. It is always fun to listen to him, even if only to break up the daily routine. I also have to admit that I like to listen to the learning of the story as well. For example, when it comes to religious matters or, rather, Christian matters, a senator may speak of them, and I mean, without sarcasm. I find it really interesting as a public amateur of culture and human society. In fact, the historical and cultural values I think I belong to are freedom, equality, democracy. I'm not gonna tire out. A senator, by all means. We'll give you a fine talk. A senator and fine material criticism of the bill about the Bishop's office and the like began to wonder if it was really wrong to take most of the bill out of this bill. Two. stands for e.g. that the Church's position should be in accordance with Article 1. 62. g. 2 mg. Ninety-niner. The Constitution, No. 33/144, something which is obvious because of the fact that these provisions are present in the first place. Also, there are things that you can find that you can't see better but that you don't belong in law; you should be part of what the church itself chooses to do. I myself believe that it is not the Lawgiver to tell religions what to do when it comes to the way they want to conduct their religious beliefs, much less their religious messages, and no doubt we would. Councilmen choose other regulations to clear out the bill. But I wonder what. A senator believes that the bill needs to be adjusted, so that there is more to it than that. A senator considers it normal, or mostly to remove it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u66	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists and speaks good words. Yeah, I think the bill needs to be changed a little bit and referred, for example. to do that when I spoke about the Bishop's office. I would have wanted to see that it would continue to live, although the Bishop was not necessarily an official employee, just historically speaking, as the oldest office in Iceland. As I mentioned in my speech, I would have liked to see that we would continue to use the term for the bishop of Iceland, and I think it is fitting for this historic office and important office. So I would have seen a change in the bill. Do I have a visual on something being taken from the bill? No, I haven't put up with it, but I believe it is normal for the Commission to review the situation in its work, within the council, that it is normal to be informed because a council is given a very large part of this adjustment, a new law, and to fulfill certain factors that have been previously under law. Then I feel that as the lawgiver asks about how that work is going on, just as we do in many other matters when we receive visitors before the Council's Committee, as we observe how the legal process is and so on. These two things I would have liked to see that they'd follow along. I can't rule out that I bring a change of motion to the Bishop's office.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u67	A respectable president. Again, we speak at the High Council of Religion. I always find it as strange when we discuss matters involving the material convictions of the people, some of them mean, but, of course, they are not just their own things, and they are not individuals and cannot have religious convictions. 1st par. This bill is as follows, with president's permission: ▪ The National Church in Iceland is an Evangelical Lutheran religion. If we assume that the state of state and church today is normal for republics, democratic liberal nations that I don't think they are, and if we think it is a good idea to have a special religion named in a constitution, and if we believe that there should be some special financial privilege for a given religion, I understand why we would put this article into law in 2021. But I don't think any of this is normal. I think all of this is at odds with the idea of equality for the law, although it's certainly far from being the most serious violation of an equality that can exist, here or elsewhere. You see, we are under law here that certain organizations are a type of religion, that certain things in Iceland believe, according to the doctrine of Evangelical Lutheran Christianity. I think, by nature, a respectable president, rather far-fetched for a democratic state, that I'm going to put some lines on it, whether it is a society or whatever. But let us be absolutely clear, more dignified president, that this is the legacy that it seemed natural. It was natural to force people to become believers, if not directly violent, by threatening such things after death. It is the legacy of a state - and - church relationship. It is not in itself critical of the religion or the doctrine, many of which are excellent, and I believe in myself, for example. To love the enemy, to forgive for repentance, and so on. In fact, I have to say, and I think about what. 3.m. Southk., Þórarinsson, would agree with me that there are some things in Christian doctrine that sometimes forget too much in the community, and we were quite able to bear in mind a little more. Sometimes, as they say, the water can be thrown out of your child's house. But these theories and stories, that culture, live entirely without a special relationship between state and church. Another thing to remember is that although Iceland is currently a relatively unique community, there are still more religious beliefs in our community today. Then I don't even have to look for a Christian doctrine. Here are many Christian congregations, here are Evangelical Lutheran congregations, who have other doctrines, or at least some. something more important than the church. Hv. paritaprevir Þórarinsson said earlier that the Church should be more active in a public talk, not to be silent when it comes to Christian faith, Christian values, Christian culture. I happen to agree with that. A senator about it, or rather, I think it would be better if it did, in two ways: on the one hand, because I think a lot of the bad things I think can follow too hard a religious identity - I am referring to the negative influence that religious convictions can have on people's lives, perhaps it's news for some but it can happen, but because some of these doctrines we have been able to discuss more fully in public fields and wonder whether they are simply good ideas, for the sake of having a positive influence on society and our privacy. I think there are plenty of such things in most religions, not just Christianity. In fact, I run into something, in all the religions that I have had the privilege of studying over the years, which I consider to be good ideas, even though they are not the source of the Creator of heaven and earth. But, Mr President, this may have been a little bit of a way out of the way of 1st. The bill. We listened earlier to a talk each time. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, the son of Thorin, was of interest to me. I would have listened to her, though she had appeared at YouTube because I find it interesting that the Bishop's office is the oldest office in Iceland. I think history's interesting. I find it interesting to see how civilizations develop and how they absorb certain values, how certain traditions come about, and why they exist, whether they are good or bad, and how they differ from what they think. It's all very interesting to me, and it all seems that it's all part of the common popular popular conversation, religious and otherwise. This is part of our human life, part of our society, culture, and history, whether we like it or not. However, I find it amazing that such talks are held at the Council unless we are offered a bill like this. We are offered a bill on this because we have a definite connection between Church and State. Although I didn't originally intend to do so, I can only go to one species of financial ties, although it gets very tired to reason it here at the General, a respectable president, and others, there's a repetition of the same circle each time. I realize that the church meeting is a deal. I realize that the payments for the church are for property transfers on earth. There is no disagreement on this matter. When they receive special financial privileges on the basis of that contract, they are not protected and are not responding to these facts. I mention this because I feel tired of listening to these comments, a respected president. It's simply not fair to sell some exhaustive resource, e.g. Earth, against an infinite price. A moral institution should be taught to see without anyone telling her about it, and it can be very clearly seen. I think, I must say, a measure of disrespect to the judgment of people, to act like this church meeting, with this strange mixture of permanent rent and alleged sales, to be in some way just or understandable. It is simply not, a respectable president, except from an ancient and contradictory viewpoint that it is normal for a particular religion to have special financial privileges through a wealth of state for historical reasons. It is simply not, most respectable president, and people will not stop protesting it. The words surrounding the bills put forward here to form when the church meeting was revised during the days, always embraces the church's independence from within. Then there's speeches on how the Bishop's office works or how a council works, or if I agree with the Council to a council or the like, which I find all personally interesting as an individual, but is not of any concern to the General in any way, a respectable president. It's just that way. It has nothing to do with the public. Do not discuss the internal organization of Muslim or Muslim religions or members of the religious community. Why not? We have no reason to, but it has nothing to do with us. A respectable president. It's basically no more complicated than that. That point I think people understand completely, basically, the most people in this room at least, and certainly the highest. Minister of Justice. This is none of our business, nor is it silly to discuss here the internal organization of certain religions or whether the Society is Evangelical and Lutheran or not. Then people will be willing to take that discussion and make adjustments so that they will be a little less foolish for us here at the General Assembly than they will always be left to what it is all about, the financial privileges enjoyed by the nations in the shelter of the contracts that have been made with the State over the years. A respectable president. I don't in itself know the answer to changing these contracts to make something fair. I don't have that solution right now. But I get rather hopeless when I don't even see the ambition of trying to do so. It is obvious that it is not being tested when the answers are that it is a contract and then the content of the contract is described in several sentences. This does not indicate a willingness to separate state and church, a dignified president. It is prideful to let the talks around here, and the Senate may look a little less foolish in view of the role of the State and the legislatures in particular. There's a lot of regulations in the bill that I don't understand why they should wear laws over their heads. There is no doubt some justification for this. I doubt that I would join them, but these are marked by some way in which the relationship between the state and the church seems to take in, which is, of course, very disloyal. Some of the principles here might make sense, if we believe that the church is supposed to be national or national, or in some way special, such as. That the Church of Nations must carry out a dedicated service in the whole country. All right, I don't need it personally, and people outside the church don't need it and don't ask for the service, so keeping it out is not a favor, just to be said. Thank you, but with all due respect: I understand that if people feel that this should be a church that has some special obligation to the civilian population, then... More than any other religion. A respectable president. Six. it says that a congregation is a social and financial foundation of the State Church. I cannot understand what it would be like for the General Assembly or why it would be legal for congregations in a designated area to be parished, and one or more parishes would be called. I'm sure it's cool ideas, but I don't know it, Mr. Honorable President. I would be glad to hear another talk from each other. 3.m. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! I don't see why it's in the law. I don't understand why this is not simply part of the religion's own social law. The same can be said, as far as I can see, most of the time here, in advance of my ignorance of the church's inner issues. But, a respectable president, when we talk about segregation of state and church, and we're going to be honest with it, we have to take the financial part into the picture. If we are going to be honest with that, we do not pretend that the agreements made were of no importance in the relationship, that they are somehow out of the question, or that there is some other discussion, because they are not. When a common citizen who is simply a member of another religion is not an Evangelical Lutheran religion, not of wickedness, but because he is not, then he should not have to pay a higher price for the ministry than he is an Evangelical Lutheran religion. It's such a simple, respectable president, it's so obvious from the rest of the constitution that it's supposed to ensure legal equality. The contradiction between those articles and the National Cathedral of the same constitution is foolish. I'm going to make this work, a respectable president, end up with time, but I hope that one day we will stop discussing religion materially at the High Council, but this will only happen with the complete separation of the state and church and then, of course, the financial situation will be followed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u68	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. The Minister of Justice for History on this excellent bill, and I'd like to thank you very much. Parliamentaries who have participated in the discussion. It has been helpful and interesting to listen to a variety of speculations about the State Church and the Evangelical Lutheran religion, as it were. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son made an excellent speech of his own. I'll probably count to the group that is built into these excellent institutions as a priest's son, and I have considerable opinions about these things. The bill that is clear and in many respects good. But I'd like to include various aspects of this discussion about the new global law we're considering here, a law on the State Church that is to promote their independence. When we talk about church independence, and people are only talking about segregation of state and church and some people believe that this is a step in that direction, I want to reiterate that I'm not getting far on the evolutionary path that I want to start talking a lot about segregation of state and church, and I think very important that these two things are in the same room. I intend to discuss only the service of the local church and the importance of the service performed by the Church, the clergy, there. A priest at each priestly call plays an important and varied role and is often a cornerstone in the community where he lives. True, during the past few years, there have been considerable changes in the service of the church in rural areas. I remember well that when I was a young man and a younger man, and I am not now an old, respectable president, then there was a pastoral call where I know the best, now called Laupipur, three priests' calls now united in one. As a result, there were three priests. Now one priest has the role that the previous three played. True, there have been some adjustments in agricultural practices and the like, but what I'm saying with this is that when we talk about church independence, you must not look at it as a company that is just looking for endless conveniences and cutting down services on the edges. We must carry on the ministry that has been there and hopefully will remain, as it is, whether they are built into the Church or not - that I know very well myself because I know a lot of people who are not in the local church - they still use the services available there. Whatever form of religion people are involved in, people in the rural area are benefiting from religious organizations, the services of the National Church. As a result, it is so important that the church is there to render the service of salvation, or whatever it is called, and that it will continue. All I fear is that there are changes in the subject, and considering what you know at the time you have observed, there have been an increase in parishes, priestly calls, and priests. We regularly talk about it at solemn times, defending the rural population, and I'm going to watch this from a local viewpoint. This is exactly the same thing that always happens. Whether it is professional or school, we always have to protect the situation in our rural territory as well as in the case of the church. As a result, I would like to warn that men will take a major step unless they have ensured that the existing service in the country will remain. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son went a long way in making a deal on land and state and church. It's all on earth that the church has and the state has taken advantage of, certainly it's based on some contract, but I'd like to simplify it so that people there have some kind of base which is from the bottom of the line, but number one, two, and three is to perform services. In this regard, there is an organization that most people are involved in, and still more people are applying themselves to the ministry, which makes it normal for the State and the Agency to be connected. But with the bill under consideration, a firm stream of simple things are being explained by a range of professions and other things and is an excellent job and will be expected to become informative at the moment. A global and educational committee that will cover the bill. We hear that when the Peoples come to their attention in the High Council, there are some differences in opinions about it and its role. I wanted to come up here and make this point, i.e. the important role the National Church plays in the country. We have noted that the number of priests has fallen and that parishes have been joined together, and priestly calls have been laid down. I don't think this is going to go any further. For example, some priestly calls have grown to the point that there may be a 1,40,150 miles [150 km] between them and sometimes over a mountain road to serve people who live there and have to be invited and prepared 24 hours a day to do so. As a result, I would like to promote these views in the future work that people could possibly keep these things so that the service rendered by the Church will result in continued observance.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u69	Mr. President. I think that most of the things involved in this bill were quite well discussed and can be said that I agree basically with them as well as with them. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson said earlier, so I'm not gonna spend too much powder on repeating what he's said, for it was as foolish as the fact that the Church is really as connected to the state as the case. It is satisfying and positive to be trying to go toward the fact that the Church will become more independent, of course, I would prefer it to be completely independent, for it is difficult to think of another community organization that would accept or demand to be specifically connected to the State in some way. Would any Kiwannis Club do that? Would Southland's Hare really do that? The case of the Vienna Camp may be bad, but it is certainly a government agency. But there is something that we may want to change too. It is clear, however, that any organization that is not necessarily for the entire country should be independent and not belong in any way to the State. Of course, what that involves is businesslike, founded, and particularly conservative. If some kind of money is shifted between them, they should do so on equal terms with other organizations of the same kind. That's what I want to talk about, so the church has a completely different position than any other religion in Iceland. All religions are charged with parishion, but above all, special funds go to the National Church. The basis is primarily the so - called church meeting. I always think it's such an interesting tool because it's a contract between two parties, the National Church and the Icelandic State, which is actually about one person getting his property, i.e. The churches and the other party receive a certain payment, unless, in most contracts, it was made very clear, so that it was absolutely clear what property was involved. It would also be clearly defined, so that it would be totally clear, their value, and that they would be required to make a living that would include. See how much to do, how to do, how to do it, how to pay, and when to complete the payment. As far as I've gotten close, only one of these points, i.e. how payment is handled, in general, in some way in this agreement. Here we are talking about special payments to the National Church for land that have determined final value, but the pay is infinite in time. They go on forever and ever, and I sit, knowing not much more than I know, and asking myself, " Who are these earths? ' How much is it worth? When have we paid enough? When has the Kingdom paid enough for these earths? These are questions that I think we must answer considerably better if we are really going to go toward some kind of independence for the National Church. I think this addition is enough, and then it went wrong. paritaprevir Very well, the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson all the other points of the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u70	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for giving a speech at my request so that I could get into the speaker's chair. I am truly grateful. I'm not going, like many other members of the council here, to talk a lot about the bill as such. In principle, I agree that the independence of the Church from the State is increased. That's just the best part. It may be that I would like to have something different, but I'm not gonna make a big deal out of it and will, of course, support this bill in all the important things. However, I decided to come up here on the platform to discuss a talk. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson and the, that I think, a misunderstanding that there is, in fact, contradictions of so many other things. A senator has said and done. I felt compelled to come up here. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson speaks of the privilege of the National Church, of the inconsistencies of the National Church, of other religions, etc. We need to start to realize that in our constitution there is a special provision for a national church that expects us to support it. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson was so surprised that we had a special law in a state church. Of course, we must have special laws about it, just as we have special laws on the Kingdom News because we have decided to have absolute inconsistencies in a media market that no one is concerned about. People always worry about the State Church, but they do some good. You can't imagine someone else selling alcohol but ATVR, it's all the same there. Neither RIV nor TVR have regulations in the constitution, but it is the national church. I don't understand this discussion. Apart from this, the European Court of Human Rights and the European Court of Human Rights has been tested. What did the Court of Human Rights, which often hangs on, say that it is not possible to call a court? He came up with a good, good opinion. It states: There is no need to be discouraged, just as we choose to have someone do some type of service that we choose to support above others. We can look at the budget every year, what? Congress members, where some we think are useful, get money while others who are doing the same get no money, no money. We do this all the time. Why? Because we consider some things more than anything we consider to be of benefit to society, and indeed, the churches have done a great deal of good. It's an amazing service. People do not have to be in the State Church for that service. That's because we related the National Church to do that. I always have a feeling that many members of the Parliament have no feeling or knowledge or knowledge of what the church is about to do and what obligation it has above others. I may not be a great Gentile myself, but rarely do I go to church when asked, "Where do you hide the horns and tail? " But I know exactly how the church benefits, how much Christianity is part of this nation's inheritance and history. And because this is also a bill for setting up a proper Christian teaching, I feel as ridiculous in not teaching Christianity as not teaching Iceland history. There is absolutely unbreakable bonds, apart from the fact that if you are going to be reasonable in your language, you need to read Christian science. This is part of our cultural heritage. This is part of our story. This is so important. But I'm not always happy with the National Church. I often feel terrible about it, especially when it gets involved in some social talk, but I know it will do a great deal of good. I know it's a wonderful service. Everyone who's only in their years knows that. This has also been the case with people who feel that there is so much conflict that the taxpayers'financial resources go to the National Church as well as to other religious groups. Then there will be no overlooking the church meeting. It can be considered impossible, completely absurd, to make it, and so on. But we can't make these kind of contracts, take our worth up to billions, and say, "Well, it's just so inconsistencies, we can't pay you anything. Of course, that is not the case. They can try to renegotiate something, okay, then they just do it. But it's not really about the church meeting. It's about that we still have regulations in the constitution. Even if it's against them, it's still there. Then let us just support this church, whether we like it or not. There's nothing more complicated than that, except that it's actually doing us a great deal of good. V.E.G. President. The Senator's been blowing enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u71	Still got it. paritaprevir the opportunity to blow it now gives an answer. paritaprevir 10. South, a Smári Mccarthy.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u72	Mr. President. Although I disagree with her, this is an example of how important it is for people to have their own views. I'm glad to hear it. A senator has come down from the chair in order to give his talk, but I have to make some comments. I know the benefits of the nations of this country. I completely agree that it will do a lot of good for certain people of the country. I also know about the cultural and historical importance of the National Church, and I'm not arguing about it. I know about the service the National Church provides. But now I am, and tens of thousands of others in this community, in the group who do not care for the services being performed. This does not mean that we do not want to preserve our culture or anything like it. Most of us really want to do that, I think, but there are other tools to protect our culture than to maintain an institution, especially when that institution really costs us a lot of billions of dollars a year, it reminds me of somewhere around three times more than the Kingdom Radio. So I must be sure to ask. A senator who wants to, I think, gets rid of the state radio, that I think, may end up a little inconsistencies there, and agree that it's okay for us to break the ATVR monopoly rights at alcohol sales: Why does the senator speak about maintaining this designated government when it reduces the number of people in the country who want to take advantage of its services? Why doesn't he want to privatize her too? Why don't we privateize the Church of America?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u73	V.E.G. President. The Church is already private, it's a free society. In itself, it is not necessarily right for me to want to get rid of RUSH. I can accept some service on the part of the government that others do not care for. In part, the ministry of RUS can be there. I can totally understand people don't want any national church. I don't make any comment on that opinion. They say, "It's all free societies." If any of these associates perform some form of service that we feel is useful to society, we may be able to strengthen it in some way, as if we are always doing with all kinds of societies, public welfare organizations, and what it all is called. I don't make any comment on that opinion. What I'm saying to you is that if you think it's a violation of something equal or something like that, you and I do it almost in everything we do. Of course, I'm the kind of man I want the government to be as little as anyone. Since the people themselves can do the ministry more effectively, better way, more volunteering, less expensive, I want the people to take care of it themselves. But I realize that there are many things the government has to do because there may be no one else who can do it normally. I don't make any comment on that opinion. I'm just saying there's a law on this in the constitution. It doesn't count as inconsistencies. There are obligations to the State Church over other religions, and that is why I view it as a normal thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u74	Mr. President. I appreciate that answer. True, I wondered, though, if the Constitution is not incoherent. In effect, we here are talking about a particular religion that is being saluted above others. I'm not saying the Church doesn't have a right to exist, it belongs entirely, but I'd rather be critical that this has gone far. A law has been passed on the commanders of a certain private or independent agency, such as the driving force. A senator says. Why can't this institution decide its own matters, on the bishop's and other matters? Why do we need a national church law, even though it says in a constitution that we should protect it? I think it would be better if we were to cut this thing down, cut the state center when it comes to the State Church. Certainly, it should continue to be strengthened while in the Constitution, but perhaps it is not necessary to negotiate with the National Church, which is non - timed and nonstop on the payment of billions of dollars each year beyond what other religions have access to. Such agreements, church meetings, and other matters, are first of all just a game for state funds to do things like this, but it's also not the right way. This is not an honest way to say: We are supporting this organization beyond that of others because it is in a constitution. There are better and more honest ways to do that, and I think we can find better ways to do this than set up a lot of laws, filled with boundaries, and then shovel money on a contract that doesn't work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u75	V.E.G. President. Hv. One senator asked: "Why do we need to set specific laws about the Church of the People? It is easy to say, that is because we have a constitution that obliges us to support the State Church. But we can debate whether such a law should be in the constitution. In addition, we need a law on the State Church because we have decided to impose certain obligations above those of others. That's the answer, and it's simple. But as I've said before, there's not going to be anyone here forever. If society changes much in which it is heading, then this constitution will be completely obsolete at some point. Then we'll just change it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u76	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u77	If it does, I mean. On the other hand, I would like to strengthen religious organizations in order to carry out a certain ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u78	I agree.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u79	You just didn't realize how important this work is, how much these churches and congregations, and, of course, the local churches, are doing wonderful work. She may have done even more of this in years past, or in old times, as they say, when men did not have access to mental - health professionals and all kinds of health care, the local churches, of course, took care of the nation's spiritual health and tried to fix it. I think we should do more than have all these experts everywhere, because God has taken care of many of the men.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u80	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to a whole new pattern of air travel. Recently approved flight policies, part of a transport programme, focus on maintaining the level of air security and support for further growth and progress of air transport in this country. How appropriate, then, to provide a bill that creates a new and updated link to flight arrangements that will take note of modern requirements and international commitments in this area. The primary objective of the bill is to ensure a high level of safety in public flight and further growth and progress of competitive flying in this country in a environmental way. The bill contains important changes from current laws as well as changes in other laws. The changes suggested to three factors are summed up. First of all, there are changes in the management of air traffic and surveillance. First and foremost, these changes have occurred over the past few years in connection with Iceland's membership to the European Air Safety Agency of the EASA and are clearly laid down on the work of the Grouping Agency and the EASA in the bill. This switch is rooted in the European Commission Regulation No. 1139/2018, for public flight and for the establishment of the European Commission's Air Safety Agency, etc. and her predecessor. The third generation of a so-called flying-security maternal structure has not yet been recorded in the EEA Convention, but the decision of the joint EEA committee is established and has been submitted to the European Commission for review. The scope of this maternal structure is large, involving all aspects of flight activity and includes individuals and lawmen on public flights as well as on projects and control. As you can see, there is also much growth in the bill. Governmental opinions due to the proposed recording and induction of this type are the same as previously proposed by the Allegorization and the introduction of its predecessor, the Commission Regulation No. 216/2008. In particular, the speculative factors are to be reimburse certain European Commission to EASA and EFTA monitoring centres and to the Court of Justice to the European Union and EFTA Court on specific matters. Second, it is an update to the National Rights Protocol of Iceland. I'm referring to both international air-of-air contracts and EU types that have already been adopted into the EEA agreement or are awaiting recording. Here are the variety of commitments that some make. Thus, in the bill there is also a strengthening authority on the implementation of regulations in this field. The bill takes into account the agreement on the joint European Air Force that Iceland became its member in 2006 and went into effect on the stated factors in December 2017. This agreement allows for free market access, validarity, equal conditions for competition and common order and can be seen in addition to Iceland and Norway, members of the EU Member States are members of the Convention as well as Albania, Bosnia-Hervonia, Macedonia, the former Yugoslavia Republic, now North Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia, and the National Government of the United Nations in Kyoto. At the same time, the bill will consider a new addition to the Safety Management System at the Chicago Convention on International Flights and is proposed to establish a national and air safety programme which will take into account the European Air Safety Programme. At that time, a number of laws of the bill have a direct reference to the EEA's principles, both the new types and those already adopted in the EEA Convention. Third, the bill recommends the legalisation of an international agreement on the damageable responsibility of an airliner, called Montreal Convention from 1999. In addition, there are suggested changes in other laws. The main majority of these changes are terms and references corrected, but there are also a few chemical changes. The greatest changes to transport analysis laws involved the Commission's obligation to investigate plane accidents and severe flight events. There are also marked changes to income tax laws and laws on the privacy and privileges of international institutions, including the U.S. to address the comments of the EFTA monitoring centre. The changes in terms of cost taxes are based on Aeroplane policy policies for increasing environmental protection and include access to 100% temporary reimbursement of the value tax due to air travel and motors that use electricity as the main source for import and first sale. These changes have been prepared in cooperation with the local Ministry. A respectable president. I will now explain the main subject of the bill. It is suggested that the range of air travel will be extended from the current level. This is in accordance with the broad range of EU air transport policies, such as the role of the European Air Safety Agency on Aircraft, Services and activities in third countries and the European Commission performs aviational service. It is also suggested that the laws take care of other instruments and objects that travel through the air but are not a mission that threatens the safety of air travel. For example, there are astronauts and rockets. The bill also deals with unmanned air missions and their operating systems. The call is for registration of non-human aircraft to the specific criteria of the invented and registration of pilots and for the recruitment of inhuman aircraft. There have been updated regulations for access to the European Union, including the European Union. with regard to inhuman aircraft, state airvers and flying rights, i.e. The right to fly for a profit in the United States. The obligation of third - state fliers is also required to obtain a flight safety witness from the European Air Safety Agency as a basis for flight to and from Iceland. The management, tasks and flight control section seeks to clarify specific tasks and observation, i.e. The EU Air Safety Agency, on the other hand, and the Grouping Office, the cooperation of these two institutions and the possibility of monitoring. General requirements are also set out for the administration of a Community agency with reference to the existing requirements already implemented. This suggests keeping two new files, as well as existing files on Icelandic funerals. One is a list of the individuals and businesses in this country that operates unmanned missions and a list of devices and items that can travel through the air but are not airprints. In the atmosphere, the bill provides some new indicators regarding activities dependent on the design and production of products in this field. All of these are points already discussed in the number of EEA types already included in the EEA Convention and entered into the national rights. He's at VIII. a section on air traffic control is suggested that ownership requirements be removed from foreign investments in air traffic laws. At the same time, it is suggested that, instead of a full list of the national commitments involved in validation rights, the general terms that generally refer to the agreements that Iceland has taken. For the educational work of individuals, changes to the minimum and maximum age of the pilots of certain types of air vehicles and to the certification of third countries are proposed. In the field of consumer protection, adjustments are made in the care of consumer complaints and the legal right to the minister is canceled. Instead, the Court's decisions will be binding on access rights unless the pilot or operator of the airport is directed against reporting within 30 days that he does not intend to be bound to the decision of the Agency. The 1999 Treaty of the Montreal Convention for improving the responsibilities of an aviator also seeks to create a more solid basis for his contract agreements. A review of the port work programme, particularly at work and rest hours and general monitoring management services, has been reviewed. A section on airports has some new indicators. The report is that there is evidence of security equipment and air-reflecting personnel and for management services. A new arrangement is proposed for the consultation of rural partners and a management of airport monitoring of the airport environment. Then there are the regulations on the organizational procedures of the reviews and updates and the notifications of the block and the markings of the block. A guide's field is suggested to give more details to the operators of air traffic and air travel services. Air traffic and air travel services are also covered by certification of systems and systems. Subject requirements are added to the service factors under which they should serve. At the same time, there are new arrangements for the design of air space, including the design and organization of the earth. to ensure extensive consultation on the aspects of air use intended for non-term use. In the section on monitoring and authority rights, forced measures and penalties, general control and authority sources are supported, and the Community is empowered to commit administrative fines. There is a widespread ban on the use of psychiatric substances and there is authority on how to monitor them. An official market control agency is also committed to the law, including unmanned air travel. A respectable president. I've mentioned here the lead of the bill. There is no time to tell about all the changes involved, but it is clearly explained in the general report that follows the bill. If the bill is legal, it is not expected to have a significant impact on the survival of a government fund. The Ministry will give you more information about the unique support of the bill for what is required. I suggest that the bill be following this discussion. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u81	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for review. Although I did not read the document as much as a hundred percent of the cards, I managed to scan it earlier, the bill seems generally fine. It explains things better and works better than the current law, it seems to me. But there are nearly 100 per capitulated laws, and you cannot avoid experiencing it so that the weight of the EASA principle is primarily thought for large passenger transport machines or large commercial cargo machines, which are quite normal to a considerable amount of heavy regulations. Still, I wondered if there are some places where the regular work could have been more flexible to smaller airplanes and airplanes on personal or similar flights. It has, for example. Recently, there are considerably greater indications of maintenance of floaters and other such vehicles than has been in the past. You really need a Part-66 full rights to engage in such activities. When the system is designed for the largest, the weightiest case, there is something to think about. I'm asking the highest. Minister if there is no room for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u82	A respectable president. You're right next door. A senator, and we in the Ministry have heard that because we have been putting much emphasis on flying with a new flight policy and having more conversation with the authorities in this area, people have been complaining about some painful regulations when it comes to minor activities. To this end, perhaps I'd like to say first, that it has become urgent to update the rule of action that is being done here and is very extensive - I don't wonder that the senator didn't have time to read all this thick book - but some of these are becoming out of date and there are certain changes in general nature that I would consider to be useful to smaller people, just to update it to the present orderwork and understanding of the global and large areas that all Europe is. I agree with you, too. A senator that it is important to deal with it, and I direct it to the committee to examine it. I think that's what they're doing. It was the task, when we started this, not only to gather it into a large legal column, which is, and to combine certain things, to put it in a better way and to introduce what is new, but also to see if it could be that there were some special rules that would make it harder for us to do otherwise. But I think it's been answered by recording mostly the maternal type, i.e. What we're talking about in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u83	Mr. President. I thank you for that answer, and I can agree with a lot of things. The problem we face, and this is not a special problem here in Iceland but throughout Europe, is a heavy burden of regulations, especially to smaller people, has run costs of quite serious importance, has created a burdensome environment that is simply going off a number of smaller trajectories dead, as the situation is today. The restoration of pilot rights is more difficult and more expensive in Europe than it is. In America, and this has been shown to reduce the number of flying sports in Europe compared to the Americas and the United States. Each of us agrees that we must maintain as good and strong as safe standards for flying as possible. But when we are developing these European rules, there is almost always some kind of scope for interpretation and space to adapt the situation in the Member State that will provide them with each other. I wondered, " Am I now developing the most difficult and complex rules instead of taking advantage of the available space that I would like to hear? ' I'd like to ask you a few questions at the end of the day about the 91st. The bill where there is a license to rent private planes. I wondered, " What is that article for? ' Now it doesn't take special clearance from a U.S. House or anyone else to rent out his car or his apartment, does it? Why can't it be done in this case?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u84	A respectable president. I thank you again the answer that might sound like an answer, but I hope it doesn't fall apart. It's simply so that I reiterate what I said before, that the EASA protocols determine exactly what is intended to be used here and then in agreement with the stakeholders for the natural induction of the model, provided that the bill will become a law this spring or summer. You're right about what you're doing. A senator that the EASA program is very heavy on the bill. But like a dog. A senator mentioned in this European regulation of the EU when it comes to significant relief of regulations against smaller and lighter climates. They're waiting, they're some 30 types, and they're hanging on the induction of this EASA principle that the bill will build the setting. If the bill is legal, much of the order is planned to be replaced. About your last question. Senator on the 91st. I have to admit that I don't know that law, and I'll get the answer to it. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u85	Mr. President. It's safe to say that it's got bigger bills you've seen lately. True, we recently had a bill on the provisional agency, which was about a heavy document, so reading these days is enough. Happily, though, I had a little time to look at it and just looked at it quite well. Of course, as is said at times, the Devil is hidden in the details, so there will surely be details when this is taken into consideration. I'd like to mention a few things, both good and bad, that I've run into, and I hope they'll be taken into consideration by a environmental and transport committee. To begin with, as we were discussing just before the answers, this large EASA protocol is primarily being implemented, which covers a very large area of air travel and is built around the tens of thousands of flights that are happening on a global scale or that occurred before the start of Covid and hopefully will be again. There are certain points that, as we discussed, would be good if we were to lose weight on smaller and lighter climates, on private flights, not on professional flights, and on the streets. I just look forward to and trust that there will be good and normal arrangements, not necessarily beyond reasonable limits, but at any rate in those 30 or so underprivileged areas. Minister spoke of earlier. I wanted to mention 14th, 16th, and 17th. the bill that includes the implementation of responsibility for other parties in monitoring and similar activities, and it's actually very good. This fits into things that have been used for, e.g. On Fissa registration and similar. But I wondered if the wording in these articles could be so that a large quantity of the surveillance can be done from a walking agency to a private person beyond what is reasonable. Here, perhaps, is a reason to reflect on the wording and to sharpen it. 36th. The bill is said to use the SI unit in flight. That's very good. It is interesting, though, that in today's flight, there are still significant steps, knots, and miles around the world that are still being used. There are mainly three countries that don't do that, as far as I'm understood, and that's Russia, China, and North Korea, used for miles per hour and meters in height as normal. It's quite remarkable that these three countries have gone that way. But here I think it's inevitable that these units, and actually more, are needed to fit in on the rule, even though it's very good and just perfect to aim at SI as a base. I mentioned 91st. ... andI haveto admit that she helped me a little. It is, in effect, a limitation of who can rent their possessions. It says, by permission of the president: In the United States, the EEA has established its budget. Exceptional licences are trade and financing companies, aviation personnel with EASA bases for reporting aeroplanes and/or special operating procedures. The Minister is allowed in Regulation to state the conditions for the permit... Usually, when someone owns it, they can take it off without special permission, and I think it's kind of out of control. Now, a plane should not be used unless it has a flight license, insurance is okay, etc. and it must not be used unless the person using it has the right to do so. Given the two things that neither of them are under the rent, and that they have taken care of the taxes, I don't understand why they should need a special permit for this to happen. There may be something there that could just get away. Naturally, the bill speaks of a pilot's employment protection as well as the same. However, there have been times when aviation of aviators, especially at rest, is sufficiently respected. Now it's something I don't know personally but I've just heard of and wondered if there's no reason to look at it and see if there's anything I need to do about it and make sure that Air Forces are not then, e.g. if they've been on an airplane for any reason, extending the day by caring for maintenance in the air cover afterwards. Mistakes occur when people are tired and natural that we keep our pockets in good standing. But now I'm picking on a big one about a lot of things. It has been mentioned several times regarding psychoactive substances, that there are limits to the ability of people to direct or operate in the event of mental activity. It is natural to place some limitations there, but it has been noted that by this prohibition, which follows a serious European event a few years ago, people may develop a culture that those who are suffering from depression or anxiety or other mental disorders are struggling to seek help because they fear being put on some mental product and thus lose their job. It needs to be very careful, and I pray to the Environment and Transport Committee to make a special examination to see if it is not the best way to create some kind of setting in which pilots can assess the severity of each event and allow it to become like each other's medication or other means of air control and pilot health care. It's difficult to find the right landing in this situation, and we need to be very careful. But I think it would be worse if we accidentally created the culture that people were hiding their illness. I'm just going to mention 264 in the end. Article five, this is about the worthy tax discount. This is truly wonderful and positive. But there's something special about an electric plane. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ During the period of July 1, 2021 to and by 31 December 2026, 100% of the valuable tax paid for import or first sale of a new airship, an engine, or aerospace that uses electricity as primary energy source should be reimbursed. Then there's more to this. Although it's very positive that you are in a hurry to the flotation of the pilots, I wonder if it can't be good to watch that, for example. Because of hydrogen and other clean energy sources, which may be less expensive and simpler in praxize than the complex task of installing batteries that make them very heavy, and weight is the chief enemy of those who are building airplanes. At the same time, I wondered if this law also applies in cases where no main energy source is available. That would be on gliders. I think it would be normal, because there are electrical systems in such machines. But if you look at the history only then, at a time, it was being watched very much to use even the gliders on a trawl, large gliders, and what is called Zeppelin -- I don't know what the Icelandic name is over it, perhaps a airship, I think it's the right name. These possibilities have come to mind in recent years, and if they prove helpful, they have reason to have some kind of support for such induction. I think this law is generally taken of the good but you might find that it could not be extended to more sources of energy. Of course, it's running out of time, and it's a 270 - page bill with a report and a number of instructions, even so many so many that all the documents are not even printed in the printed bill but are only links. It's big and it's complicated. I wish the Environment and Transport Committee to help you finish the situation and hope that it will get started. But take good care of all the complications and loops that may be involved. This has to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u86	Mr. President. I present the Parliamentary decree of the United States Parliamentary Action Programme to strengthen the school environment position of boys. It reads, with President's permission: The General concluded to hide the minister of Education and Culture to provide a timed and financed four - year plan for action, by 2,202/22025, to strengthen the school - education and cultural status of boys. Secretary introduces the General Action Programme to the Fall Summit of 2021.κ This proposal suggests preparing the Education and Culture Minister and implementing a procedure program to strengthen the school environment position of boys. Ministers work the plan closely with rural society, the University of University of Iceland, the National Institute of Health, the Developmental Fund, and the workforce. The solution to the problems of Icelandic boys in the school system is not simple. It is important to consult with all who are involved, not just the ones mentioned earlier, and that is the most widely distributed and based on evidence and the latest knowledge. One of the greatest challenges for boys in the school system is the problem. Dragons are less successful at school than girls, their departure is more and a high proportion of boys recommend poor reading skills. The PsSA International Research, conducted for 15 - year - old students in the spring of 2018, shows that the proportion of students who do not achieve basic reading skills increases from 22% to 26% between studies. In boys, the percentage increases from 29% to 34%. A much lower proportion of men than women have had a college test in the past few years. Thus, boys do not seem to be as well prepared as girls for traditional high school after finishing high school. It's shown in numbers about leaving colleges and graduations from high schools and statistical information from high schools. In 1975, the sex percentage of students who completed the student's test was equal. By 2018, however, the ratio was 60% for women and 40% for men. When figures about graduates are examined, the difference increases. In 1973, 76% of those who completed a college test were men. In 1985 the proportion of the sexes was equal, which was extremely positive. Today, however, the situation is that 34% of those who complete a university test are men. Clearly, somewhere a pot is broken, and action is needed to improve the school level of boys and balance this difference. In this context, present students are important. A report that the company studied and analyzed for the Ministry of Education and Culture in 2018 showed that children in 8,◯10. A grade school is worse now than it was 20 years ago. Girls in general feel worse than boys, but they do better in school. There are many causes, ranging from less sleep to drug abuse, as well as the development of social media among children and young people who are not known until 2012, also play a role in feeling worse. It is important that these factors be carefully examined in the preparation of the programme, that any deterioration in the condition of students, and that the schedule of action be taken into account. A particular concern for the situation is the situation in which the authorities are challenged for education and for health care to immediately begin to view this situation, and that is also the case in this council arrangement. Mr. President. Finally, I would like to point out that inconsistencies when it comes to education will lead to social problems later on. If we watch that there is such a imbalance between sexes when it comes to education, it will lead to social problems later. We need to consider why boys cannot find themselves in the school system. What causes it? Since its introduction, much discussion in the community has been made about the status of boys in the school system and in the local community. it is pointed out that boys receive much more attention and much more time for teachers and support in the school system and are given much more support than that the attention boys receive in the school system is overwhelmingly negative, that they are being reprimanded, or that they are being called off. Now it's the one that doesn't have any expert on this, but I'd like to know, and I think it's important to be reviewed in this operation, whether this negative message that one sex receives significantly beyond the other part of the school system can in some way cause a fall out there and cause boys not to find themselves in the school system. If you get from a young age, from a six-year-old, the message from a community you're supposed to be in for ten years, that's school duty for ten years, and you're there a lot of your waking time, that you don't do, that you're not working hard, that you're supposed to do something different and behave and leave, well, it can have a long-term effect. There's a lack of confidence in this system and a lack of confidence that you belong there where you obviously fit in badly. If this negative message is the majority of the messages you receive, it may be possible to look at your experiences in the long future. Mr. President. The assumption is innocent, it is simply to hide an education and cultural minister making a timed and financed four - year operation in order to strengthen the position of boys in the school system and Ministers to meet the General Action Programme in the autumn of a arrival. To this end, I suggest that the synoptic proposal be made clear. A top-of-the-art Board of Education for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u87	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Vala Salva Helgadóttir for performing this good case. Because we are, I think, of what it is that really causes this problem, I wanted to ask why. A senator, whether or not she has retraced whether our boys have gone through the years, perhaps for years and much longer than the last ten years, is on the brink. Or what's it like? We can see that this trend is growing. Has a what? Also, a senator did not wonder what message we might be sending to these young boys? How's our family? Can it have something to say? And how the system itself actually works, when a child cannot be taught to read in high school for ten years? We see more than one third of these boys graduate badly and with poor reading sense. I'd like to roll it up with a bang. Senator, I think this subject is so important, and it must be very dear to all of us: in how many angles we need to look and what we must look at, beyond that. A senator rightly notes that perhaps we are sending a negative message: You are just not smart enough and fantastic and you are not doing well at school? Perhaps we have even come to them with such a negative image that there is no point in school. But it is a school duty, and they have the opportunity for ten years to learn to read there. There's another point I'd like to come by because I'm heaping this on the ground. A senator, i.e. how the education system is built up. Why should we have our children learn so many things before they are read and even before they speak the language properly? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u88	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. I'd like to stand here all day and discuss this because it's a big heart thing to do, after taking four children through the school system, and it's not over yet. [[Me, too.]] Of course, there are many theories upstairs, but what hurts me most is that when I discuss this, or when others allow themselves to discuss it, even great experts in their fields, it is treated as a sex war. Of course, this is not a sex war, for all children are equally important to us. As I say, there are a lot of theories back there. Hv. A senator asked: " Is this a new matter, or has it always been like this? ' In 1975, the sex percentage of students who completed the student's test was equal. It was almost 50 years ago, 45 years ago. In 2018, the proportion was 60% women and 40% men. In 1973, 76% of the men who completed a university test were under a special campaign because everyone agreed that it was unacceptable to lean on women. When it comes to education, equality is so important because it also increases social skills. It's not only that someone is good at the book but that there are so many other things. In 1985, 12 years later, the proportion of the sexes that completed college was equal. Everyone welcomed it. But today, some 40 years later, the ratio has become so that 34% of those who complete a university test are men. So we're totally on the other side. I think it's a trend that's taken place just over the last few decades. I don't know what's causing it, I don't realize it. I don't think it would take four years to investigate it as we say.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u89	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Vala Vólvóða Helgadóttir for the answer. I also agree with what. A senator says I'd like to stand here all day and think about it. I know we probably couldn't find out the big truth about it. I'm surprised she says it's happening right now. Clearly, women are simply taking over. What causes it? Is it this feminist battle that we have been calling for in terms of equality, that we may have just overcome the goal, that it is no longer equal, but that it is a failure and a limp on the opposite sex? But I agree with what. A senator that it's not about us and then, we have to put our arms around it somehow. Has a what? A senator might wonder what the consequences of an individual's initial exposure to school may be because he has been given so much material that he does not cause it? He can't read, and he has feelings of anxiety, distress, and sadness. We see that there is probably nowhere anywhere in Europe, if anywhere in the world, any of which children eat other things of hyperactivity and psychotherapy because of anxiety and depression, depression, and depression, and our children. It seems to be interconnected, intertwined, pathetic things that we now face, and it doesn't seem to be running around, just nothing. So I want to come back this way, maybe we could take a little shortcut and start at least. to offer children 6 to 10 years of age to learn to read, write, and calculate before learning geography, history, and anything else that they sometimes find hard to read, especially if they cannot read?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u90	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I think feminism has led to the greatest global improvement in the last decades and in the last century, towards equality, towards human society, toward the welfare system, towards equal, etc. So I will never pretend that in some way it had a negative effect here. However, there are many theories about the cause. Some say that the pay differences between the sexes in Iceland made it possible that we have such a deep - seated amount of pay, as shown in the media the other day, that in certain parts of the country, men with primary education even have a higher salary than women with a university test. Of course, there is a very special situation where you don't have to be educated to have a higher salary, but you can walk into high - paying jobs and get a very good salary without having to learn something to do with it. But I'm not sure that that's what caused boys to peel out of high school. I've read OECD reports and heard the discussion there, that it may be in the way we're using now to teach, lack of recovery, that boys need this constant re-administration more than girls. I don't know if you're right. But this is clearly something that we must face because equality will always lead to a happy future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u91	A respectable president. There are so many things I'd like to say that I decided to step in and say this. You've seen it through the years, both when you're traveling abroad, and when you're studying the situation in foreign sources, education systems elsewhere, and child - style equipment, that in spite of our good society at most of the levels of at least, or it should be, compared to the geir in us that Iceland is one of the biggest countries in the world, as it stands, we pretend to be with the cleanest air and best of all and the best water and the coolest language, and I don't know what and -- the fact is that sometimes doesn't have to do too much to achieve and achieve huge goals. It doesn't always take a lot of money to change the course and give at least It's a special opportunity. It surprises me very much now in our time the highest. Minister of Education, Lilja Alfreðsdóttir, who is not here with us to answer that, in fact, it is not. I felt that the will was so great and passion was so great when the season began that I had certain expectations that we would see positive changes, or at least positive. We now face the fact that a computer system for a standard test is not even updated, so they are to be released. How convenient it is to let them go just because we do not keep them that close to other nations around us! We're dragging, unfortunately, the train, hiking behind the tail in way too many areas. We are also dealing with harassment, which has now greatly diminished but has become very visible in the community, and we are fighting it with all our strength. So I would like to share a little experience that I find very interesting and that took place in Spain some years ago. I always heard, as I sat down south under the house wall, a lot of excitement, ABBA singing, and bollets, and everything was fun somewhere, some were just at a party, that I thought, at 9 o'clock, at 10 o'clock, and at 11 o'clock every hour, everything was on the air. I took a little field scan and what do I see? Yes, there is a basic school near where I lived at that time. There was a multinational society of children everywhere, and they enjoyed the school property, which was completely reserved, and the landscape was slightly different from where we are to become used to it. They had set up a speaker, which only cost some beans, so you're saying right now. It almost didn't take anything to put a speaker on the school floor and always in recesses was put on some classic song, something they could sing with, something that would make them happy when they were playing with the ball. Not known here. I started asking about it and I wanted to check it out. I wanted to know more. Why are you doing this? What's going on here for free minutes? There must be fun at this school, all singing and humming, of all nations, yellow, red, green and blue, black, white, purple, they spoke all kinds of languages, but they could sing together because they were classical songs, they knew the law. They approached each other and sang together. How wonderful that was! Then it turns out: By doing this, it had been successful in preventing harassment, completely. There was no one who was dragged under a wall and thrown at him somewhere under cover and hiding. Everyone was there to be seen and happy. It was so obvious. And it was fun to talk to teachers who said that a mutation had made their children well spiritually well. What would this do for our children, just this? It's not gonna cost you anything. Would it not be just as good to try a try at one school? I'd like to hang a speaker around them all. I know that singing makes the heart rejoice, let alone when everyone can take the song together. Our children are much more open and freer, they're not so squeamish as we'll be later, and they're always pretending to be something we're not. They're not. They are free, they are sincere, and by giving them this, just this little example, I would say they continued their sincerity and joy, e.g. in the context of expression. How many of our children, who are so deep inside, are afraid to get up and say their name? What is done at school to strengthen their self - esteem? I think it's extremely limited. I can tell you a story about my grandson, 12 years old. It is painful for him to make an effort to read aloud to me. I couldn't see him standing right in front of a whole class, and I'm gonna cover over the kids. It wouldn't work out. They lack confidence, not just in the boys, but in our children over their heads. We are the ones who should put confidence in them so that they are comfortable at school, and they enjoy their study. The first step is not to push them to the point where they are not able to distinguish from anyone or even to read. Hv. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir says why there's so much tragedy here, and then, boys, at high school. Could it not be that when you are ill - read or readable, you face the challenge of crossing the threshold of going from high school to high school, you completely lose your feet when you drive on a wall, seeing that you cannot handle what you have come into your arms? No matter how much you want to become when you grow up, no matter how willing you are to work hard almost anything as a young man or a young woman. It is fundamental that we provide our children with a system that makes them feel comfortable at school, which makes them read when they graduate from elementary school, which makes us never having to stand here and wonder whether our children are being released from school because they do not help them because they do not have to read out or read badly. The basis for all of this and the basis for it is to begin immediately to give them confidence, to provide them with security, to express themselves, to make them sing, to give them joy, to fill them with positive thoughts, optimism, and smiles instead of almost filling them, as we see by a large group, with sadness and anxiety and depression. We don't need to have it like this. It doesn't have to be such a respectable president. The people say, " We don't want to see it this way. ' I'm going to hope we're going to bring our hands together and fight with a point and an egg for us to change this for our children. I know we can if we join each other, wherever we stand. This isn't supposed to be politics. That's way over politics. We are talking about our grass root, about our future, about our children. And what is it that we want to do for them? Everything. Each parent, with little or no exception, says: I want to do anything for my child. That's why we're supposed to do the same thing. Councilmen and the highest. Ministers. We are to do everything for our children so that they will feel at ease in the very existence that we enjoy so much around them. Away from everything I've already said, I can mention something else we're fighting, the party of the people. There is distress over poverty, distress when a child is left behind, when he cannot participate, either in social activities, sports, or anything else because there is no money. It is also a guarantee that no one is left out and left out. It is an evil government, a respectable president, who drags certain social groups out under a park and leaves them out. It is now a matter of months before we make a recovery, making sure that we provide food, clothing, and shelter for all. It is our children that we are required to fight for number one, two and three, to bring joy, security, and proper education on their grounds because they have the ability to deal with it but are not left behind, after graduation in the tenth grade, with poor reading or ignorance.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u92	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a patient's rights law, No. 74/1997 on paediatric surgery and studies. A moving man in addition to me is Inga Sæland. In 1st. says: ▪2. mg Twenty-seven. The law says, "It is illegal to perform unnecessary operations and investigations on children." Two. it is determined that these laws will already be obtained. Parents have custody of their children and make decisions about their issues, including the right to do so. Of the 71th str. The Constitution on privacy, home, and family. Parents'choice, though, is not absolute. The legislators can set rules that limit parental rights, which protect the child's interests at 3 mg. 76. g. the constitution, i.e. that children should be ensured by the law of protection and care that their welfare requires them. It is the Constitutional role of the Lawgiver to take particular care that laws provide children with protection. Especially is it important for children to be protected above other members of society, for in most cases they are unable to protect their own rights fully or to bring attention to their own situation in the same way as adults. Special attention should be given to situations in which decisions are made that will have a lasting effect on the life of a child, such as when making decisions on children of medical procedures, which are discussed in the patient's rights. In 1st. Twenty-six. The principle of the law states that parents who exercise custody of a child should accept needed treatment, from the exception of that principle. Two. it is obliged by health care professionals to consult child - care providers who refuse to accept the necessary treatment of their children. That's 3 mg. The same articles for healthcare professionals to treat the necessary treatment promptly if there is no time to seek the protection of the child. Code 26. use in other words when it is necessary to treat a child and discuss where the boundaries should be withdrawn between a child's rights and parents. It is important to make sure that parents do not go too far when it comes to deciding whether a child should receive treatment. Two. Twenty-seven. the correctness of the patient's rights to protect children from unnecessary studies and measures. It should be guided by the decision whether tests or procedures should be performed. The benefits of a child must be determined by performing an operation or investigation and whether the risks of such an operation outweigh the risks of interests at stake. Unlike the rules that apply to essential medical treatment of children, this is not discussed in the above chapter 27. how to react when parents request unnecessary treatment. The guidelines presented at 2 mg. Twenty-seven. There is an assessment and a long way from being definitive. The movers suggest 2nd. Twenty-seven. the patient's right to refrain from performing unnecessary measures and the testing of the paediatric population. The evaluation of non-necessary or non-necessary measures should take into account the child's interests as well as the medical and psychological factors. Transporters stress that parents'principles of living should not justify passing on any particular procedure or causing any particular procedure, whether parents believe that their child will choose to conduct certain future procedures will not interfere with medical evaluations of necessity. Good judgment should always be given. If this bill is legal, healthcare professionals must evaluate the need for action and research as well as refuse to perform unnecessary measures and testing of children. Any procedures, no matter how technically simple or complex they are, may be associated with complications. The United Nations Children's Covenant is about protecting children and hippie oaths, above all, about not harming them. Any unnecessary medical action involving children is without question a violation of their rights and is in no way compatible with the United Nations Children's Convention. Unnecessary measures involving the risk of infection and unnecessary suffering and therefore can cause irreversible changes in the child's body are forbidden if this becomes a law, and children are guaranteed protection and their legal rights. If a child's parents refuse, e.g. to accept essential blood transfusion, if considered necessary, it is mandatory to donate blood to the child. Parents'opposition to blood transfusions is simply not respected because their child's life is at stake. The children's contract is designed to protect children from unnecessary measures that could damage their health, and it is therefore essential that they take up a discussion about child rights and prevent all discrimination. I'm going to quote a letter from the Iceland Human Rights Office, which was sent to a welfare committee on March 21, 2018: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. 19/2013, on the United Nations Convention on Child Rights, says that the child's best interests should be taken into account when making decisions on issues involved. According to Article 12. According to their age and maturity, children have the right to express their opinions and wishes and to be taken into account. Later, according to the words: This view is adopted by Iceland's Human Rights Institute of Human Rights as well as by Article 1. Child Welfare, No. 80/2002, which says that children have the right to be protected and cared for, to enjoy rights in line with their age and development, and that all those who have the hands and care for children should treat them with respect and care and that children should be excluded from any form of violence or other disrespectful behavior. It also states that parents are fully protective of their children's well - being. A respectable president. We are under obligation to protect our children, and we should make sure that our children receive the care and right that is due them. It is, in fact, surprising that we need to submit a law code to forbid performing unnecessary operations or research on children. Of course, this is supposed to be a law, and it should be a self-centered thing. Since we are under obligation to protect our children, these laws must be overcome. This is to be a spontaneous requirement, and it is really surprising that we are in the 21st century, and we still have to try to establish laws that protect all children. It's kind of against the General and the legislature that you have to come in now with a law on these, of course, the rights of children. More than anything else, there's an old medical value. All children have the right to be protected from unnecessary surgery. However, doctors are also obliged to protect the patients' rights in this case and to protect them from unnecessary treatment, regardless of their parents'wishes. That's what we're asking. The child first, its rights are guaranteed. It is, too, as previously noted in the history of this bill, the United Nations Children's Covenant. He was legalized here on the land of 2013. The children's covenant can be interpreted as saying that a child's right to physical immunity is stronger than his parents'rights. With this bill, we are strengthening the right. Then we're getting them a clear message that it's quite clear that it's always the right of the child. The baby first, in a way, can be said the rest of it. That's what we're fighting for: the child first and the right.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u93	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend the discussion. In fact, my dear colleague, he has. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, put out everything I'd wanted to say, and we're together on this bill. There's only one thing I want to squeeze and knock on; the child's rights. Necessary intervention and unnecessary action on a child are nothing more than violence. Do we want to use children, defenseless children, violence? People's party says no. I don't know about all the others who aren't here and now, but the people's party says, "No, we don't. We've been making rules and changing the legal age. You've grown up at 16 and 18 and all. But of unnecessary action, whether it is to pierce the children or anything else without their own desire or knowing or wanting to be treated like that, I simply say, "It's violence against the child,'and we don't want to see it. A group of people say no to any violence against children.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u94	I recommend a bill to correct a change in animal welfare law. With me on the bill, Guðmundur Ingi is Kristinsson, Olga Margrét Cilia and Sara Elísa Þórðardóttir. They're both young women of Piranha. 1st par. put it this way: ▪ After 2 mgr. 20. The law comes a new paragraph, as follows: It is forbidden that blood should be taken from pregnant mares in order to sell it or to process products for sale. 2.g. This law has already been valid. A bill shows that the animal's best law has the goal of protecting animals from inhuman treatment. It is forbidden that an animal's power or tolerability should be superseded or abused in another way. However, in Iceland, an active industry involved in blood donation from live horses is designed to extract the hormone PMSG that is sold for biotechnology companies to produce fertility drugs for livestock. And what would this fertility drug do? Yes, it does send a message to that animal that she really is willing to carry more offspring. And this hormone also increases, let's just say right now, meat production such as we can do, the human chain, can eat more meat. For this it is justified, to be full of men, and to suck out their blood, and to sell it for gain. This hormone can only be found in the blood of a drunken mera. Biotechnology companies pay high prices for the hormone, and thus blood control has increased much in the country recently. In 2019 5,036 mares were used for this purpose. In a few places, it has become massive, with up to 200 mares in blood production. Great financial incentives are available to maximise efficiency. Vampires are made to walk with foals as often as possible until the hormone is no longer found in their blood and they are slaughtered. The sheep usually go directly to the slaughterhouse. This industry has been very cruelly practiced, much more cruel than here, at least ... likeI getit. From Uruguay and Argentina, there are cases of marked violence at blood transfusions and abortions that can be re-invented, as this may increase the production of the PMSG hormone, which is present only during the first trimester of pregnancy. A person has heard such an effect of abortion because it is no use to this extent except during the first trimester of pregnancy. After that, it is of no use. She does not produce the hormone after one third of her pregnancy. Guidelines for animal studies at the University of Virginia Tech in the United States suggest that no more than 10% of the blood volume is taken every four weeks and that no more than 7.5% of the blood volume is taken at weekly intervals. This country's gone a lot further. While the hormone is found in the blood of the mares, blood will be carried out every week, every week, every five litres, seven to eight times during the summer. The Icelandic horse is less than a foreign breed, as we know, so there is only a amount of blood in the Icelandic merum of only 335,37 L. Here we take 14% of their blood every week for two months. These activities were not specifically addressed on the animal welfare; however unusual, it is not specifically addressed in the national regulation on the welfare of horses, nor in the Regulation on the well - being of animals used for scientific purposes. This Regulation does not comment on the extent to which regular blood flow from pregnant mares should be performed in order to produce contaminated hormones beyond the general requirements mentioned. There is therefore nothing in the laws or regulations that determine how much blood, blood volume, can be removed from the packed marsh, or how often, or what facilities must be available. It is completely unacceptable in view of the scope of this activity here. Then there are some cases of injuries that kill a blood transfusion. There are no recent public figures over it, certainly not, no figures younger than 20 years old, since 1998. Official figures from the head of the animal doctor at the time are that one to two mares is killed in the summer on account of this blood transfusion. However, the size of this habitat has grown so immensely since 1998 that it would be worth more than the attention if it was possible to draw out the truth about how they are angry after all these attacks. There may have been more injuries due to the consequences of blood transfusion, but when men die in bloodlets, it is difficult to determine whether they are due to the transfusion or to other factors. That is why it is very important that we get information about it, about it, about it, about it, about the truth, and about it. Although blood transfusions do not kill, the industry can adversely affect the lives and condition of the world. According to the World Food Organization, during the past three years, serious comments have been made in three haematological towns. Developing a horse for profit violates all opinions about the welfare of animals. It is therefore recommended that blood be removed from pregnant mares in order to sell it or to process products for sale. As I said when I read from the report, serious comments have come from the Food Institute to three people who are involved in this farm. I have not yet been told what was involved in the serious remarks or whether some other aspect of the dining system was involved, is really causing the serious comments that were then not valid at least anymore. When co-administered with People's party is a category of animal protection. We're the party that speaks for men as well as mutes. It would be very great, to say the least, if we could be members of the Allied Parliament and the Supreme Court. Ministers would meet the farmers on this farm by helping them in another way so that they would not become of the income that bloodletting has given off to them so far. The people have offered a number of suggestions. We've wanted to help most people, if not all of them, but some of them are the things that are going completely wrong with me, absolutely. I got a call from a bloodbath, and they're not happy with us here in The League of Nations, according to the nature of the case, and I'm very sorry about the way I am sorry. I would have liked to meet them in another way, for I do not doubt that many blood- 35er farmers would like to do something else, especially if it gave them the same income. There should be a requirement for veterinary surgeons to perform this task. I know so much better. Not even many veterinarians in the country can take blood from more than 5,000 mares each week. It tells itself, apart from the fact that I know individuals who have worked hard to take blood out of mares, even though they have no education or medical knowledge to do so. Surely we can do better than that. It has become a huge change in society in general to the well - being of animals. We have become much more human on the matter of caring for the animals. Though they don't speak Icelandic and are considered less intelligent, they are still animals that we love in the people's Gang. The story I was going to tell you about the bloodbath who called me was that he said that I was exaggerating, that the foals were not being slaughtered after they were born, and then he also said that if it was taken out of blood during the first three months, it would add to the female milk production. It's just milk production, that's all. The nature of the matter, I ask: What are you talking about? Are you saying that while the mare is infested and is being sucked out of her blood, walks under her foal, and suck her as well? The answer was yes. The horseman didn't think anything wrong with that. I don't know what you think, but I think it's the least horrible thing to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u95	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Sæland Howil for history on bill to legalize the animal welfare law. In short, I can say that I make significant comments to the background presented here. The fine industry discussed here has been practiced in this country and started in 1980, and about the year 2000, the biotechnology firm Iseka ehf was founded. I am just over 20 years old. There are about 100 farmers who do this work, i.e. to keep mares and natural, as was shown in the case of the day. A senator, then, walks out on the fact that the mares are being held, cast, pass the foal, and taken from that blood for a period of about two and a half months, not two months as shown here. It's two and a half months. The maximum blood is taken eight times, but on average it is taken five times. Well, it's quite industrial, and I think it's safe to say that animals are being treated well. True, however, there can always be variations, and this happens in all operations, and it will be handled. I don't know what the case was. paritaprevir Inga Sæland Land, there are some players who take the blood from the mares here on the land. There are plenty of animal doctors around the country that takes blood out of the mares. I'll just go over the way it's done. Then I'll start by talking about Irkeka. It is a biotechnology firm and a new creation company that earns blood from Icelandic mares and makes valuable pharmaceuticals. Yes, a particular hormone that is used during fertility treatment is certainly won. Almost all of the products are exported. This is a currency, and the company is rolling about 1.5 billion dollars. Every year. In this fine business, more than 40 people are employed. That's half of the college education. In Izak's office, a special animal host and quality agent, which has, in agreement with farmers, has access to horses and new facilities for this project. Izata is a member of the European Medicines Agency. The medicinal product of Isafa is a Witness of the United States, as well as of the European Medicines Agency and the European Medicines Agency in Iceland. The company meets the international GMP standard recognized in the pharmaceutical sector. The blood transfusion itself is under the supervision of the Food Agency. Now I'm a farmer, and even though I'm a farmer, I'm also an animal friend. Farmers are expensive friends, and I don't feel that men are living here talking about something else when they discuss farming, like men are playing with animals. It's just bullshit, that's all nonsense. All blood transfusions are made by animal doctors and are under official surveillance from the Food Institute. The whole process is open and transparent, and food agencies are given detailed reports on the subject. All blood cells are taken by local anaesthetic. [[Up front.]] Yes, it's local anaesthesia when the beast is... [[Talk about shit and shit.]] These are the data I have under my control. Senator. As I was in the past, blood is taken on average five times in two and a half months, but most of eight times, and the health of the mares is being monitored after a blood transfusion. If I noticed just before, there are no cases that a mare was killed because of blood loss. [[Up front.]] It's carefully held, and based on the data I have under my control, the effects are the same as in nature. It is 0.1% of pregnant mares that perish over time and is not confirmed because it was taken from them blood. It is an expensive contract followed and followed by the Neocreation Corporation of Iseka. This is the only company that works in Icelandic agriculture that makes a special welfare agreement with farmers based on all the trades that Iseka makes with farmers. There are 100 expensive traffic agreements between Iseka and farmers. The Treaty Treats are based on the conditions of the Food Agency and the Precinct on animal travel set up in accordance with the latest laws and regulations. These include: Special provisions for coherence and rest of horses, for registration of all horses into the Food Institute database WorldFeng, specific measures for good pasture and access to water and saltstones. Special provisions for the good conditions of a blood transfusion. Special precautions to avoid taking the blood of mares in towns that have developed abnormalities at the well - being of horses according to the Food Organization. Like what? A senator entered earlier has made comments to three towns of 100. - Three towns of 100. It is safe for a colt to go under the mothers as they please, including for the nutritional state of both foal and mother to be optimal, so it is only natural in these circumstances that the mares wear the foals. I myself know quite well this farming, although I do not practice it myself, and I can't see that animals are being treated badly, not in any way, but all of them are under supervision. That's the way it is. A senator, that there is a monitoring of this farming, and therefore, as you entered your fine speech, it is so that there are variations - three anomalies, three towns of 100 - there are comments. In this welfare contract abortion is not permitted for mares on this project. This well - being agreement is made with all the 100 towns involved in this project. The Italians receive copies of the surveillance reports from the local farmers. A respectable president. I can't really disagree more with the fine bill here because it conflicts with all the information I have about this farm. That men are here in some game to torture animals -- I'll take it from the outside if there's any example. They don't know me. But I know what the situation is in this country, and it's not in any way consistent with what it says in the report that follows the bill, just not anything. It is also good to have one thing in mind. Yes, it is true that the 5 litres are taken in 14◯17%. If people leave and they donate blood, we're taking 12% of them out of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u96	Once a week?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u97	Some go a few times a year. We're talking about five or eight times a year in this case, on average, five times, maximum eight times, not to exceed eight times. Similarly, when the average is five, each time blood is taken, some mares produce the hormone just for a long time. If you have two and a half months and divide them for five weeks, it does not mean that all mares are taken once a week. It just doesn't make sense. That bill doesn't come up to me. There are 5,000 horses in this. You've seen discussions about this farm on community media. And when people say there's a lot of things about horses and things like that, I just want to say here in this fine discourse: it's the way all the work works are that there's always some variation in us, in everything we do. But that does not mean drumming with punishment for those who do well because there are some skunks among them. The cunts are to be decommissioned. But those three as a dog. A senator mentioned in his history, of course... [[They're still sucking blood.]] I don't know anything about that. Blood is hardly being sucked in January or March.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u98	No, they're just waiting.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u99	So so far, if people don't do their jobs, we've got some action started by the Food Agency and they've been carried out so far, and that's why we've got all this surveillance program. We have a Food Institute that handles various factors. Then I want to reiterate it here in the rest that I have not heard anything else about this fine company, the Isket, that is there, but that it goes a great and good reputation of it. They have had very good dealings with farmers and veterinarians throughout the country. I reiterate that they have a good deal with each farmer, who must comply with certain rules. I want to direct it to what it is. Christian ministers in this context may want us to visit Iseka together and be well educated in what is being done there.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u100	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Ingi Pétursson of Þórarinn for his speech. I'm not really going to thank him for calling me crazy and nonsense, because that's just what I feel I'm not at all. Besides, I wasn't discussing how Ísteka works this hormone or questioning whether they are geniuses and technically perfect in the work they do. And I'm not surprised and would have been more surprised if the middle party's spokesman had not shown up here, the middle party with special emphasis on this in their agricultural schemes in 20 and some teams, in which the number No. 18 specifically states: "Do not stimulate blood flow. " Of course, you are not surprised when there is clear interest here. Of course, you are not surprised that Iceka is being protected, and they spend 1.5 billion a year doing this work. But here taking in human blood - why. A senator admits, although it is considered entirely undefeated scientific to take more than 10% in such a short period of time, at such short intervals, from a full - fledged mares, and brings the information that we will take, although it is on average, five times in the summer. I say it's wrong. That would be an exception to the rule if it wasn't even for a week, the weeks that merin produces this hormone. So I'm going to point it to what? A senator, with all due respect, and ask him kindly not to call me crazy and baloney with my conviction of what I am doing here at my job. I'll respect his opinion. I have never, in either my speech before or ever, talked about killing animals torture farmers. I don't know where the hell it is. A senator has that idea and how he dares to say it. I have never said that, as he spoke in his speech before, that I had been talking about farmers being mean and tortured animals. [[The president calls.]] It's not true. Senator. I never said that. [[The president calls.]] I have 100% respect for farmers, even why. A senator if he's a farmer himself.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u101	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the urgency. I'd rather not be getting involved in a lot in the Central Party where I'm in the advance group, but it's really exciting to see what they're doing in their agricultural policy. But in my talk earlier, I did not direct my words to the point. A senator who called him crazy or something like that. I was just saying, it's just bullshit to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u102	...not hurt...
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u103	That's the way it is. According to Isteek and Food Organization data, on average five blood transfusions are taken each year while the mares donate this blood. On average, five times each horse must be taken no more than eight times, eight times. The average is five times. That's the way it is now. A respectable president. I don't know how long to stand here and answer for the talk I gave earlier because I didn't get a direct question, but if I did. A senator believes that I have gone too far to my criticism of the bill I sincerely apologize to her for it. But most of all, I was able to express my views on this excellent bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u104	President wants to encourage them. Councilmen, as soon as they are careful to speak, direct their words to the president.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u105	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I'm going to start by saying I'm sorry that I put him in the middle party. Somehow, I thought he was something so classic here and I sincerely apologized for that. In any case, I am not hurt or offended in one way or in any way over what you think. A senator has this bill, for he is certainly allowed to feel that what he wants, to mean nothing to me. I'm sorry, though, when it comes to heavy metals and attacks on a man, as I experience it at least, that doesn't seem right to me. This is our conviction and our faith. Hv. A senator notes that this account is just completely confused, how the account is, not even blood can be taken out of the marshes so often at the time they're full, as I've implied. That's wrong. On average, it is not five times that blood is taken out of these mares. They are tried to remove blood as often as possible, as often as they can because of what they are doing. A senator points out, and I came into my history with the bill, that it is only during the first trimester of pregnancy that merin produces this hormone. The nature of the matter is tried to exploit it. I'd like to ask you what. A senator from where he receives information that most of them are veterinary surgeons who take blood from over 5,000 mares each week. There's a shortage of animal doctors for this job, and I know better than what. A senator, as I pointed out in the history of my bill. I know of men who aren't even farmers running after mares to suck their blood.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u106	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. The information I have on this case comes directly from Iseka about these factors. Besides, I'd like to share the knowledge I have at least. Obviously, there is. A senator more knowledge and knowledge than I do. I've never heard of men, players, running after mares to do that. In addition, as I mentioned in my speech, it is this way that when blood is taken from a mares, they are inconsistency, and they are put on a set stand. This is a significant operation when the mares are being collected and put together in a set video booth, since it takes a considerable amount of time to take from them up to 5 litres. For the production of the hormone, not all mares are identical; not all produce the same amount of hormones. That's the way it is now. As a result, the average is five and must not be taken more than eight times. Blood will be taken after two and a half months. That's the way it is. Senator. And if any. A senator has some other information, but I might as well have it. But this is the information I have from Iseka. This is the information I have from the farmers who have mares and are in this sector. That's all I can offer you. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u107	A respectable president. We're here on the White House bill of a change in animal welfare law. I have to say, after listening to what. Pétursson Þórarinn am even more against this transfusion. You are told by your veterinarian that your blood will be taken under official supervision. I don't feel any better about it because I realize that there's a slight discrepancy in this project. I've heard of it. Something else I don't really understand and came out right now and was supposed to be good, I think, is that the mares are persistent. I don't see anything good about it. I don't see any good in this. Of course, because of their feelings, they are a sign of inadequacy. Human beings decide, we go to the Blood Bank, as I did before, and give blood. I made that decision, but it didn't occur to me for a minute that I would drag someone else into the blood bank and say, "You're supposed to donate blood. What if I thought I was being dragged off by ignorant beasts, our horses, the mares with a colt, to take blood? Then you would have thought, " For what purpose? ' For what wonderful purpose is this being done? What's the point? Is it making things better? No, the purpose is to produce a hormone so that a second animal can be nagged even more, so that another animal can increase production, making piglets, so that gilts can be first with and feed the pig than it can physically. This is what I've read about. That's the point. I'm just saying, Guð help us. How far are we ready to go in such a situation? Hv. A senator says that he is proud to be a farmer. I come from both generations of farmers. Well, there are about 100 farmers who do this. I say for myself that I can only imagine that they would want to work with something else if they received a similar amount of money for it. I say for my part: I can't believe that this is something they want to do and probably feel like working; taking the blood of a mare that has a foal to produce more meat. And at the same time as there's too much meat. So that's what it's all about. And that this is just done in the third trimester, that something normal about it, I have to say, I just can't get it. I started studying, and I ran into a story. The author, Stefán Árnason, is a lawyer who is specialized in animal protection laws. He wrote an article at the core of January 14, 2020. With the permission of a president, I will quote his article. It says, under the title World Dignity of Icelandic horse farms, they are going to pick up: ▪ The Italian horse is highly respected on a global scale. At best in Iceland, man's equipment and conduct with horses are exemplary, far beyond what the law demands, and good morals claim. That image must be protected, and the horse must be treated with gratitude and respect. But I'm afraid not everywhere in Iceland And furthermore, under the headline of the Blooderin, is an experimental animal to increase meat production: To produce the hormone PMSG, a trader is defined as an experimental animal function of the Food Institute and has the sole purpose of producing PMSG, an incentive to increase fertility in pigs farms for human consumption. Words say, under the title When zoos become the foundation of industry: ▪ This will focus attention on the animal creations of this industry, which is organized to the extent of the resources needed by stakeholders, agricultural ministers, and MIAST. Why is this so clear later in this article? The well - information source of this article is reliable. For one thing, recent studies from abroad are based on an animal - protection organization in Iceland. In the fall and various other data and years of general knowledge about the nature of the blood glucose industry, which has been so quiet in this country. Among the data is a number of reports published by reputable German television stations. Later in the article, under the Hymer's headline, the hard - out world sufferers say: Bloodmers are outcasts. Over the whole year, under very different circumstances. In this situation, it is mandatory. the law to give them good rest, from the weather, and from the food, and from the water. I heard the exception of my colleagues'seeing the requirement for shelter met, but they were present in some 40 places of haemostatism where hundreds of mares and foals were held. It was during the day during a recent storm that a horse could not hide and be killed, slow to the point of a painful death, contrary to the animal protection law. In addition, many people have been criticized by various sources as to how a number of ground - run horses are being neglected during wintertime for water and hay - based management. Under the headline of the Industry Slaves, the females say: The blood vessels are filled at regular intervals so that their bodies can initiate the production of blood containing PMSG, a gold crystal, a biotechnology device that provides them billions of profits each year through its mass production. During the summer months, blood is taken from tens of pounds. When their foal is only a few months old, various scenarios are possible. My sources. There's a shot on the spot and lay down until his mother gives up, finishes her grieving career. An abortion is even being carried out so that the mares can be refurbished. The animals born are buried in the fields or taken from their mother and sent to a slaughterhouse. That explains the high supply of cheaply pickled meat in the fall. I say for my part that this list is scary, but not unless any of this is true, you don't know how much, I can't be sure. A lawyer who claims to specialize in animal protection laws speaks there. It's just terrible. I'm just saying, even if a fraction of this is true, we should stop immediately. Finally, I'm going to quote the final words of this article, with the permission of a president: Is Iceland an invitation to farm farmers who are ill controlled by animals? Yes, there is. Two branch offices in Iceland no longer seem moral to be acceptable in Europe. Hygiene production by the mines and the blood glucose industry. The furthest industry has been highly criticized here, and foreign people have attended here by the Icelandic authorities. The same is true of the blood glucose industry. He's got a blow to pick up abroad, so the stakeholders are here. And this seems to be the best case for the General Assembly, legion minister, and Food Organization to pay the street in Iceland. The bill shows, and there's no decline here in any way, that blood is taken seven or eight times during the summer. The Icelandic horse is less than a foreign horse race, so there is only a amount of blood in the Icelandic merger of only 335,37 L. Thus, each week about 14% of their blood amounts are being taken each week for two months. We were to accept this because there was so little more blood than what was taken from humans, or 12% according to what was presented here. This is a big difference because the amount of human blood is made with the will, deliberate, and deliberate act of the human being. But we're not just taking blood out of a horse. We're taking blood out of a marlin with a colt. I just can't understand how to justify it. I am completely forbidden to understand, first of all, that it can be justified, and secondly, that it is also, as it has been, in the media file something to be furthered. It's kind of weird. We're basically under obligation to make this stop. We're supposed to be civilized enough, and we're supposed to be developed enough to respect our animals more than that. I say for my part that I respect farmers and that I have nothing but to tell of the farmers I know. But I have not known a single farmer who does this, and I say, fortunately, I have not seen it. I was raised most in the rural region of Huna Lake, where horses were abundant. There I never heard a man mention such a thing. That was me for years. Given their attitude and thinking about their horses, I am absolutely convinced that it would not have occurred to them for one second, not one second, to do this. So it is, as indicated here, something hidden, something that is not willing to be in the public discussion. Perhaps the most important thing in this is when a company that makes a huge profit from this production, an enormous profit. The profit must lie in taking the blood and creating this material to sell e.g. Pigs to produce more meat. I say, why don't we agree that this is a good bill and it's only time we show our horses the respect, and especially the numbers that have foals, that we're not pumping more gallons of blood out of them, seven to eight times a summer, while they're having foals?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u108	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his fine speech. Well, that's the way it is. A senator, that I don't think any of the animals we think are voluntary in the environment we keep them, whether they are cows, sheep, pigs, hens, or what to say, now or horse. Hv. A senator made it clear that there's a big difference - and I'm sorry if I tried some sensitive boat when I said we gave blood and it was like 12% that we gave away the 14% - that we did it voluntarily and the horses didn't. I suppose in all our livestock and farming there are many of the things we need not always to do with the will of the beast or how they would want to do their things. It's just the nature of the situation in a farm. But when men do farming, they follow certain rules. In the context of our discussion here, there are about 100 well - meaning agreements with these fine farmers who practice this trade. I know a lot of those farmers, a fine prayer, and I'm not sure that you can just get a man to do something else. We're producing something, we're doing something in our farm, whether it's blood or meat or milk production. That's why I'd like to ask you. paritaprevir Ingi: Do you think it is so that everything farmers do is done with the will of animals?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u109	President wants less of it. The senator is to address the members of the council by full name, and it is also a good rule to direct his words to the president.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u110	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ingi Pétursson for the inquiry. Of course not! The answer is simple. What are we going to do differently? We now see marvelous crops on horses. It is the culture of horses, the prizes sold to animals around the world. I don't think those who do that job are in pumping blood from their horses or mares with foals. We can and should find another way. This has already been shut down by industrialized nations. Are we still going to be the guys in this? I can't see, and I can't understand how to justify this. Let us see for what purpose this is being done. It is to get a hormone to inject it into other animals so that it can produce more meat. We don't need any more meat. So, what's the point? Making a carnivorous? I just don't see the point. I'm asking why. paritaprevir Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson: Does he feel normal that this hormone is being made to pump into gilts to produce more pigs even without being ready to do so? It is a hormone that will make them more ready to have even more. Does he feel that it is normal in today's condition? Does he just think it's a personal thing? And then just so that someone and even a third person are making a profit, a business that is producing this hormone?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u111	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson for his counter-sponsored response. Hv. A senator asks if I find this normal. Thus, the hormone derived from that blood is primarily exported, and yes, it is used in pigs. No one uses such a hormone in this country, so the Mount of Meat as well. A senator was not relevant to us in this context. This hormone is not allowed in this country. As for horse culture, we can sort it into two categories. It's a horse culture in which men are making sexuality and where I don't know how to take blood from mares, I don't know it. Then there is horse farms that focus on the production of meat and the taking of blood. The majority of the animals that were born there are put to work in the autumn and used in that way. So I can say that, really. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, that I'm not unusual about this farm. It's just one of the many farms we've had here in the country. People around here have been talking about some kind of profit from a good company. This is where the roll is about 1.5 billion a year. Well, I don't have numbers for profit.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u112	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u113	The wave is 1.5 billion a year.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u114	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ingi Pétursson for the question. I have to say that the information about being sold exclusively abroad only only makes me even more determined not to do so and should also encourage all farmers to oppose it. All I know is that farmers are very opposed to being brought in foreign pork for competition with Icelandic or meat over their heads. But there they are producing a hormone that is sent to Europe to produce more pork, which is sent each? Even to Iceland. Is that better? And I ask myself, too, and why. A senator may be able to answer me, " Why on earth is this hormone banned in Iceland? ' Is it for moral reasons that it is forbidden, or why? We must ask ourselves that question. We are pumping the blood of mares with foals to produce hormones that are forbidden to sell in Iceland to sell it abroad to increase meat production abroad. At the same time, farmers are talking about the threat of foreign meat production and their refusal to import meat. We're here for a total round-off. A respectable president. I'm done with this. It's one of the few times I'm completely speechless that we've come all this circle. This makes me even more convinced and more determined in that we need to accept this bill and stop it. It's turning into a complete circle of shit.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u115	Mr. President. I would like to address this case as a spokesman for animal travel and animal protection, but I'd rather not go along with farmers whom the majority care about their animals, they take care of them in every respect, and they are exemplary when it comes to animal living. However, I would like to keep this discussion with the facts. These are the facts that happened about a year ago in inquiry. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson sent in to the highest. Seafood and agricultural ministers on blood flow management. This inquiry brought tremendous attention to a case that has been in a sort of silence for years. The information observed in response to the highest V. A minister to the inquiry was somewhat shocking because it shows that mares'blood was collected from pregnant mares in meat production in this country for some 40 years. Based on data from the Food Institute in 2019, 95 members of the 95 parties took up the production of horses and have 5,036 mares for that purpose. What may have sparked the strongest reaction to the information presented in this inquiry was that the hormone that was being processed from the blood of mares, as mentioned in this discussion, was used in an effort to coordinate the pace of the animal's reproductive system in pigs. Taking blood out of pregnant mares so that precious hormones can be processed from those that are then given to pigs to increase the value of meat and carnivorous production is now making quite bickering on a number of people. Nor do I doubt that many farmers are not very successful because mares are made drunk in order to increase their production of pig farms. And although it did not occur in the highest answer. For example, when asked in the European Union for haematopoietic support, the Ministry does not have information on haematopoietic control in other countries. It is quite unusual not to have learned something about it. However, one of the largest natural protection magazines in Sweden has reported that the production of this hormone tripled since 2009. It has been discussed during the past few months at the European Parliament to prohibit the import of the hormone from South America after becoming aware of these issues. I have a clear understanding that the report on the bill is what it says. paritaprevir Sæland Happyland and her co-species helped some farmers, she can help some senators, too, because there's a natural claim that's pretty shocking. But I think we have to watch this case from animal protection and the animal tour. Here, in March 2013, the law was adopted, a landmark law, a law on the well - being of animals. Similarly, the following year, at the General Regulation on the welfare of horses, was adopted. It was a landmark law and a landmark rule adopted here in this hall. But Animal Health Act, No. 55/2013, must always be revised, and we must want to make suggestions on the welfare of animals to improve them. I would think that the prohibition against taking blood out of pregnant mares in order to sell it or to process a sale product would fall in just to improve the animal welfare laws. I would also like to remind you that these activities are not addressed in the regulations and regulations regarding the well - being of horses, as I was saying, and that is an opportunity for us to improve them in the light of the information being presented. Of course, there are a number of sheep, and although some 95 people have been doing this business in 2018, according to knowledge from the Food Institute, and because of the fact that the Food Institute has made comments to three of those who immediately stopped them from working in the local towns, this industry is still a type of industry that makes people feel hot and makes them feel that it is a pretty long way in making them feel that they are using drunk mares and their blood to increase the production of pigs. Mr. President. I think that's a good reason for us to take this step to the full and forbid the practice. To say that, I know, too, as well. paritaprevir Ingi Pétursson has noted that there is good monitoring of food production across the country, and there is a good surveillance on the implementation of animal welfare laws, as shown by the fact that in three towns this town was stopped. It is good and good, and we should support the proper supervision of the animal's law on the welfare of the animals. But we should also be open to improvement. This bill, I believe, is meant to change the law for the better, as well as for the protection of animals. I'm confident that farmers like what they are. paritaprevir The Þórarinn Igngi Pétursson represents us here at council, has a positive view of fully supporting and improving animal well - being. But I also understand when farmers feel that they are on the road and they are accused as a class of practicing activities that do not fit in with the law. I understand that. But at the same time, I believe we need courage to think about this carefully, because times also change, moral and ethical issues, and terms when it comes to animal success. It has become more conscious, especially when it comes to carnivores, and when it comes to using animals for any type of activity, especially hormonal activity, which does not fit the general idea of cultivating meat in a sustainable and environmentally friendly manner, etc. This industry does not approve of such ideas. Mr. President. I think this bill is a good bill. It is suggested that the U.S.R. should agree with it and look at it carefully. At the same time, it may well be a problem. The Environment and Transport Committee, listed above, would consider adjusting the report to reconcile the viewpoint when some feel weighed against the peasant class. But I support this matter and support all good progress when it comes to the animal welfare law.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u116	Mr. President. I recommend here for a bill that includes changes in the law on supporting innovation companies. It's a matter for which a group of reveries is moving, and I'm an executive for. With law No. 37/2020, for the change in various laws to face the economic effects of a pandemic crown virus, two provisional regulations were added to the law No. 152/2009, for support of a innovation company. This means that support for the confirmatory and development projects of innovation companies is temporarily increased. On the one hand, an enterprise with a confirmed project has the right to the special extraction of the estimated revenue tax in 2021, i.e. This year, and 2022, next year; however, the maximum cost to calculate from the estimated income tax loss in 2021 and 2022 is increased. This bill suggests that the provisional regulations will be made into a permanent law on supporting innovation companies. These coincidences, both existing, are subject to these factors, increased by this support, and many innovation companies have achieved success just because of this system. It may be said that there is a strong international competition for the location of innovation companies and the creating of an environment that gives them the opportunity to grow. New creation companies are not only sought after in Iceland but, worldwide and everywhere, they are striving to prepare those who were most suitable because of the scope of the contribution of these enterprises to the countries where they are located. Then, of course, it is, and you don't get tired of reminding yourself that innovation and investments associated with innovation are long - term projects, so it's important that you look into the long term when there are support and inquisitions, and in Iceland you can't be left by anyone else's boat. This support has the advantage, but it is not specific. This arrangement also requires that companies themselves make the way or projects at first, but by granting them these coincidences, they will be given an important opportunity to take a rather greater risk of investment in research and development. As a result, there will be a well - paying job in the companies, and there will be more tax pay. In turn, companies are growing, and thus they are improving their economic diversity, bringing benefits to the community in general by their taxation and employment. Mr. President. When this provision was accepted at the time, I spoke up and spoke a few words on that occasion. By permission of the president, I would like to quote my speech back then: ▪ What is as important in all of this is that action of this kind must be non-term. In fact, new creation is a long - distance race, requiring long - term thinking. There is no intention of stimulating innovation by temporary short action. Although they're good in themselves, they don't support believing it and trusting that we're really creating an environment for the first-class innovation. Hence, it must go further and make bold decisions in this regard. During the treatment of the case at the time, there were many reviews, and I think it is safe to say that at least a great many of them were specifically discussed on this timeline. Alternatively, e.g. Note that the review of the Society's Association of Employment is specifically stated and noted that these elements should not be allowed to be taken in time. In its review the company of Nox Medical has just proposed that these changes will not be timed any more than the existing regulations in the law. This is logical in this way, allowing the president to: ▪ Long - term decisions on large investments are taken. Building new research and development projects is also a long - term investor. In many cases, there are menial jobs that are developed that have expertise in certain fields. By an action such as this, you will create an opportunity for international companies to move jobs to a country that would otherwise not be done here. By this operation, Iceland's competitiveness for such activities would be greatly improved. Such a job would not be brought here if [short - term time] applies only. A similar viewpoint is expressed in a joint review of CCP, Origo, Insari and Marel--all of which are the companies that have achieved tremendous success in innovation and development projects, and these are companies that we're all proud of, I'll let me claim. I'd like to quote the review from these four companies, e.g. to discuss Essar's case, by permission of the President: During this period of time, a reevaluation of the product's products has studied 2.6 billion. but annual reimbursement due to total development work has been in the range of 60 to 120 million dollars. With the development of higher reimbursement due to development, AIDS has the opportunity to ensure development in Iceland, further advance, and use of the human and knowledge that has settled here. With increasing competition between countries, it is important to further support the development of innovation in Iceland. Mr. President. I'm going to finish this by witnessing to a recent industrial body. Its main discovery is the Association of the Industrial Organization, with a large number of innovation companies involved in it, including the United States. Rectangled sceptics. Industrial Parliament data provide a number of suggestions on global and economic life and a number of special innovations. I make it clear that this meeting was held after the bill being discussed here. It says, by permission of the President, about what needs to be done: Make changes in the legislation on support of innovation companies, roof rise, and remuneration rates due to research and development, intermittent. This is where they propose the same thing as the bill, i.e. making these preliminary steps premature and logical in this way: The aim is to create a warning for business management and to enable long-term development programmes. Mr. President. I'm not gonna do this any further, it's gonna explain itself. The bill is basically simple. It's technically simple. I believe and trust in further treatment at a committee, and in the council it will be seen that this is a good thing, and it will be a success. This is important for all the reasons I mentioned earlier, but even more so, because when these measures were taken, we expected that the downturn we are dealing with today will be very short. Rather, it is extending to the point that, although it was not for the sole reason, it is wise to extend this untimely process. I repeat again here at the end that innovation is a long-term project. New creation is needed for Icelandic society, and innovation is necessary for many things. It is especially necessary if we want to have more solid land for the future and have intelligent exports.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u117	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a bill to a law that includes changes in fish control laws. The bill is delivered by all the Parliaments of the Revolution, which includes a number of things that I will discuss afterwards. However, it should be noted at the beginning that this bill has been submitted before and was made at the 150th legislature and is now again and unchanged. The bill has a threefold purpose. First, therefore, it is intended to increase the balance of financial information with the requirements for registration of an up-to-date stock market. Second, this includes a requirement for the possession of larger manufacturing companies. Third, it makes a clearer distinction than the current law it maximises in a pan-European section where individual members or linked persons can control. Mr. President. In 1990, new fish government laws were passed on to the government of the forwarding squad, the Common Community, the Allied Party, and the Civil Party, which included regulations for the free supply of resources. It was intended to contribute to the increased economy and efficiency of commercial development. There were no restrictions on the size of an enterprise and no requisition requirements. When it was shown that significant improvement was achieved in successful management and efficiency, including By the fusion of enterprises, the then state of the Independence Party and the forwarding of a team in 1998 saw that regulations were set up in the law to measure the maximum catcher sector of each projection and 12% of total resources. At the same time, the size of the holding part in individual production companies was expected to be limited to 20% of the total share of resources above 8%. That law was later canceled in 2002 for the administration of the same categories of government, so it never went into effect. In 1998, the purpose of the new decision was to contribute to the widespread possession and to prevent the collection of resources at a small number of hands. During that time, all construction companies were well below the limits required by the law. The largest group ruled them over nearly 5%, exactly 4.81% of the total resources. As for the legislation in 1998, at the General Assembly, profound differences arose over the evacuation of the regulations in 2002, resulting in a breakdown of the requirement for distributing the ownership of all the largest companies. Mr. President. A few companies are now approaching this limit. Whether the requirement for 50% of ownership is highly considered, to be linked, sufficient to meet the law's targets. It is possible that real authority may be playing a game in some cases, even if property is below 50%. Or it can affect another person's business with loans or financial support. In this respect, experience has shown that there is evidence to further settle these laws so that they can accomplish their purpose. In this case, it is normal that larger markets should be registered in the general stock market in order to provide better protection in the management of information and trade through stock markets. In addition, there is reason to reinvent ideas of limited maximum ownership of all of the largest companies or 10%. This ratio refers to the definition of the track No. 161/2002, about financial companies, has an active stake in an enterprise. In order to meet these objectives, a significant change is expected in the bill by viewing a person as related in the sense of the law if one party has more than 1% or more of the total capital and another in 10% of the capital or more in the former. This means that if a 10% share is involved in a factory company where one party has an share of 1% or more of the total share share, they are put together to determine if it exceeds the limit. This also applies if this is how the indirect possession is used. It is also proper to count contacts if someone has more than 1% of total resources and demands on the other person so that the above may affect the situation. It will be required to inform the Fishing Room on this kind of connection. In addition, the bill estimates that all manufacturing companies involved in 1% of total resources or more should be registered in a structured stock market. This requires more transparency on the information and trade of stocks and stock markets. At the same time, it is assumed that in eugenic companies which have an 8-12% share share share share, no party, subject, room or partner, more than 10% of the share, stock or voting rights in the respective Member State. This directive is aimed at preventing further integration of Member States in all of the largest developed enterprises. The regulations of the bill are in addition to the requirements outlined in the current law. So they remain uncut. The bill will therefore primarily affect larger companies. Their possibilities for further compression are narrowed from what is available and their demand for distribution and transparency is considerably greater. Small and medium-sized enterprises, on the other hand, have the same potential as before for managing business by uniting. It is not agreed that the requirements for registration of the general stock market or the limitations of the stock market of the individual stockholders in all the major business organisations would interfere with operating management. Mr. President. I have now considered the main subject of this bill. This is in two articles, and I am not going to read or explain these two articles in more detail. Their contents have been presented in my main language, and they explain mostly themselves. But it is proper to acknowledge only what is recorded at 2 Timothy 3: 1. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is also recommended to allow up to 20 years of time to meet the criteria for maximum ownership of enterprises which employ 8◯12% of the labour share in the implementation of the law. So this isn't really happening. This is a place of time for adjustment. Mr. President. We're here measuring for significant changes that are designed to increase transparency, increase public perspective, I'd like to say, about the way this resource is treated, which is part of our common property. I trust and believe that the council and the Senate will review the matter carefully and find a legal basis for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u118	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a judicial hearing on the review of social security laws. The motion is with me all the members of the Central Party, Bergþór Ólason, Birgir Þórarinsson, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Karl Gauti Einar Hjaltason, Ólafur Ísleifsson, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, Jónsson, and Þörstein Sæmundsson. So the motion goes: The General concluded to hide the Ministry of Social Affairs to appoint a team to consider whether it may be appropriate to divide social security laws, No. 100/2007, so that specific legislation applies to pensions and others on the payment for disability and those with impaired skills. Social Affairs and Children's Ministers Report to the General's Office, including the results of the staff for the end of May 2021. Therefore, the proposal suggests that the Ministry of Social Affairs will be committed to appoint a group of members who are assigned to evaluate the right to divide social security laws. Department of Social Affairs and Children's Ministers is designed to report to the Generals according to the results of the staff. It's not given very long time for this work, but I wanted to put it to the test because there have been several legal adjustments in the part of social security that attract older citizens but it has not been possible to achieve similar changes in the affairs of disability. A recent report by the State's Accounting Research and Social Security Status reports that changes in the social security law were frequent. At the return of the January 1, 2007, 40 changes were made in earlier law, which went into effect in January 1994. On January 1, 2020, the current law had been changed 45 times more. According to the movers, social security laws have become untransparent and complex after a steady change and improvement. There are also some important laws of the law that are open to interpretation that change to the treatment of an insurance centre without any change in the legal environment. Government reviews also feel the need to assess whether the law may be properly divided into a special law on pensions and others on pay for disability and for those with impaired skills. Although both groups attend services and payments for an insurance agency, there are similar groups of individuals and their interests often differ. It can delay necessary improvements and, therefore, it is likely that legislation would be more efficient if it dealt with targeted materials and if the changes reach a narrower population than all other pensioners in the country. This is short and sweet and should be quite clear to what is expected. At the end of the discussion, I expect the motion to be made. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u119	A respectable president. I recommend here for bill to correct the change in personal protection and processing of personal information laws, consumer loan laws and home loan laws to consumers (final information about individuals). I've got a transferer with me on the bill, it's a good time. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson. So this bill stands for the entire group of hockey people. Chapter I shows a change in the personality protection laws and the processing of personal information, No. 90/2018. In 1st. states a 15 - year - old. The law says so, along with a headline, by permission of Presidents: ▪ Exploitation of information relating to financial issues and credit to individuals. Exploitation of information on financial issues and credit to individuals, including underscription and the preparation of credit tools, in order to communicate them to others, is prohibited. Il. Chapter Is a Change in Aggressive Law, No. 33/2013. Here, too, changes are taking place at the time of the bills, which are actually about more layers. Then we must seek, and do so, to act everywhere in harmony with the goal being set. Then we need to change it correctly in the beat of other law columns as well. Two. The changes in consumer loan law show that at 1st. 10th par. The law will add a new sentence, as follows: The information on consumer defaults should not be taken into account because of a certain requirement, if the list has been unscheduled. This is where I have to refer to what kind of rope seems to be around the neck of many of those who have had the misfortune of entering a registration record. It is quite remarkable that the person is there for almost four years, whether he likes it or not, and even if he has already paid up as much as he had three years ago. In the meantime, he enjoys the tragedy of being really paralyzed with credit ratings or of moving on in several ways to be evaluable for borrowing or doing anything. Also in III. section in the bill changed the law on home loans to consumers, No. 118/2016. In the first century C.E., God's Word, the Bible, says: "The whole world is lying in the power of the wicked We're at 7 mg. Twenty-two. The law will add a new sentence, as follows: The information on consumer defaults should not be taken into account because of a certain requirement, if the list has been unscheduled. - Exactly the same as before is shown in a change in the other law columns. In Comb 4. says the law is already valid. An article with the bill will show up, with the permission of a president: ▪ The access to loans is the basic premise for people to get out of the clutches of poverty. If people are to get out of the tenet and get into their own real estate, then finally they'll have time to acquire property. Instead of paying rent, people pay loans, which in many cases are even lower than rent pay for similar housing. Not everyone has the same amount of credit. The consumers have to pass credit and credit before creditors lend them credit. According to the credit assessment, regular income evaluations and the planned expenses of the borrower will be made to determine the individual's means of payment. The credit rating is even. Based on the business history of a party between or data from financial and credit databases. Reports are constantly coming from people who cannot borrow from credit institutions because of the result of credit ratings. In spite of good financial resources and no loans, many are granted credit. People are often given an explanation that because a third person has given them a low grade, the loan office cannot lend them credit. I'm sorry, but our Senate case is Icelandic, it's getting a little tattered when we refer to a system like I do it here. - Like a grader is a so-called character profile. This refers to the automatic processing of personal information, which involves using them to assess specific aspects of an individual's benefit, particularly the identification or predicting of factors relating to his payment status. Such character formats should not lead to automatic decision making, just not at all. Thus, credit institutions must not decline loans without taking into account other factors. Nevertheless, such personality profile is of high value in evaluating a person's credit. There are some types of people who get a low grade in a person's profile because they were in a period of time under a roof. It is presented as a basis in spite of consumers' comments on the number of cases where divorce has been recorded in individuals due to minor loans that may be illegal. Since the protection of consumers to borrowers is the only protection it is to keep pay, they consider loans illegal. They are at risk that their credit trust will be permanently affected. At the same time, it has been found that one of the main weapons in the hands of small loan companies is threatening the consumers of a registration record, they do not respond to demands. Such things are completely unacceptable. Furthermore, there may be a negative impact on the personal profile if the person has passed through a process of payment. In fact, there are some cases that it affects the character profile of the person how often the person has been turned into a dissertation file. - So if you're popular and a lot of people want to look you up, you're in a bad situation, but if you hadn't done it, even if there's really no other way of saying anything where it should be negative. It's a remarkable, respectable president, and weird, and you don't really understand how this is possible. But that's the way it is. However, it has been decided that it is forbidden to lend the importance of a personality format. It is absolutely unacceptable that consumers cannot borrow because at some point they have borrowed from others. - And it's not that much anymore. - That might have some explanations. In the fall of 2008, in the financial collapse, domestic debt increased considerably. - I'm sure it's safe to say that there's a strong, mild word here because they just form a mutant. However, it did not affect people's ability to pay in many cases. No doubt, many of them were cut off without their regular income being cut off. As a result, it was found that much of the loans, called gang loans, were illegal. Then the General decided to correct the domestic debt a few years later. Therefore, Icelanders should know best that divorce is not necessarily a fault for the individual. Hence, they should not be following people to their grave long after their death. The management of individual financial information in order to communicate it to others depends on the laws on personal protection. In the 15th. They are referred to as having authority to do this work, which says that it is an employee's duty. It is suggested that such practices be banned. This will help a third party to have a major impact on consumers'ability to borrow. Only one company has permission to do such work today. If this bill is the law, the company will have to give up the activities involved in the processing of financial information about individuals in order to communicate information to others. So the company could no longer impart information from a dissemination file or personal credit rating. However, credit agencies will still have to meet the requirements of the legal process for the performance of credit and payment. Indeed, consumers can be confident that rather than crediting third - party data, the borrower himself will check their credit skills. Finally, consumer loans and consumer mortgage laws are proposed to be modified and taken out of double doubt that the type of credit schemes must not be considered to be a miscalculation if they have been dissertated from the underlaws. It is the hope of transporters that as a result, there will be fewer cases where consumers are turned to the door because of the results of credit balance based on information that does not provide the correct picture of their financial status. A respectable president. I'm sure it's a remarkable phenomenon and the only company that has permission to share personal information to third parties for profit. But I don't quite understand why credit agencies and why we don't use this opportunity when the state has two banks in its arms, why we don't come up with a database like this. Creditinfo has. It was a bit ironic to go to credit ratings and the first button you had to push, and it was through the Department of Pension, the Creditinfo button. The credit rating is natural in one, two or three seconds, and for that, you have to pay Creditinfo 7,000 bucks. as an individual and a 13,000 k. as a couple, as it turns out, it's just a machine. The wheels there work almost as fast as the flood of money into our pension system. Anyway, it's a violation of the Human Protection Act, as we've thought of it. It is quite remarkable that we allow third parties to access our personal information to create a database and to sell access to us. It is pure indistinguishable. But what's really the worst of it is that even though a person has failed, he should remain there, that he cannot enjoy the doubt, that he cannot begin at the very place where he stands exactly now, i.e. ... witha cleanboard. Why does he have to wait four years? I had already heard that there was actually a projection of a story model with Creditinfo. I heard from an employee there that they were assessing how likely a person would be to land on a register again. It's natural with pure contrasts, a respectable president. You have a feeling there's a choice or you're wondering if I'm doing it or not. A senator sitting in front of me, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, or anyone else may come to disparage in the next four years. It's kind of amazing. I would encourage again and again that our bank agencies and our pension funds and others who give up money will raise their own database about us where we're not being sold to third parties but will see a professional who is a creditor in this case himself to collect information about the coming loans. It's a middleman who's totally unnecessary. On the other hand, this good business, the Creditinfo Lens trust, other things, and there are other things they do. They have e.g. A museum with the Supreme Court and all the judges, set up an incredible treasure. It's a progressive, very good business in many directions. They're also a little weak about the information the loan agencies send in to them. Not all of this is their fault, if I could put it that way, but if I could say it, loan agencies just start to wipe off the former debt table so that it has a clean table. I'll finally be able to tell a whole story. We heard, a respectable president, on the news of the day that some child was in the boat at Arazon's bank and that people who even owed nothing and who had already paid up their debts were receiving dozens of letters through the paper hatch, since August of last year. On one board, a pile of window mail shows a debt in the individual who owed nothing. There's something wrong with the system. Then all I can say is that I was right to have credit ratings two weeks ago or then nothing else happens but that I just get right in my head that I owe over 55 million. K. ... inexploitedresponsion. That's interesting. It was on one board, simply because of a system error that later appeared at Arion's bank, 55 million people can hook me up. K. A debt. When looking better, I asked, "I'm sorry, but who did I enter into this commitment? " There were no answers because no one I had ever accepted this responsibility for was found. Then I was apologized not just once but twice, and it corrected. But it's rough, and it just took a lot of hours to jump between the pension fund, the Creditinfo, and the bank I've been doing business with. It was a bit shocking to get this right into your arms and to realize that outside the community, there are people who have to get into exactly the same thing and may not even have a T-shirt to clear it off. I don't know. It was shocking, so that no more is said than it's gone from me right now. I'm sure there's a system error, and I say, "That was awkward. As for the bill we're recommending, I'd think it was really good for me to get it off the board that people can hang on to a rope for even four years without even if they owed us a couple of dollars, but it was so unfortunate at some point to get off the board and that they should take the other four years, that it's really the reference time, to get their freedom to continue in the community. Most of these things happen to young people, very many young people, especially young people, who have been caught in the clutches of small loans that we should just try to get rid of with every possible means, however in the way we do it. They're just destructive companies, and the least of them would be caught. I just speak clearly in this regard, and my firm beliefs are that they are not good. And texting young people and kids and saying, "Do you need any money? Would you like 10,000? Just text me and you'll have him by now. The person does not even examine the consequences. It's quite clear that it's like everything we do and all our rights, they have certain responsibilities. In this case, it is not enough to send the money on its map or bill, one, two and three. There are consequences, and you have to live up to the commitment set by a small loan company. More often than not, these young people do not even read the little type that is included in it. The bill would prevent them from saving the young people who have been unfortunate, who have paid off their debts, and who clean the table, who hold it up in this snare, in effect, in the community in an effort to get their feet by taking advantage of loans and getting their own money, for example, for example. A roof over your head or anything else. I hope so heartily that the World of Congress takes a good look at the matter and sees how destructive it is to have the system as it allows itself to be now, to sell personal information about us to a third source for profit which, in reality, will bite on those who should least, on those who really don't owe a thing but hang in this nope, as mentioned earlier, for up to four years. We hope for the best, I guess there's nothing else to do, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-16-67.u120	A respectable president. We're dealing with the people's prime bill on the change in personal protection and the processing of personal information, the laws on consumer loans and the law on home loans to consumers (final information about individuals). Often needed, but now is necessary. We realize the situation of many individuals and even of couples on rent in Iceland. The tenet market has been such that people can be thanked for getting a decent studio apartment or one or two rooms an apartment at about 200,000 bucks. per month. Then some pay $250,000. If they're up to three rooms and even more than 300,000 bucks. Those in the tenet market are, therefore, because many of them do not have a chance to buy. But what would happen if these people could buy an apartment, just say an apartment they rent at $250,000,300,000. a month? It's very simple. Then their payment would fall to 100,000 dollars. True, real estate fees would come on top of it and something other than payment would always be twice as low. Just that alone should be enough to make sure that the banking agencies that have these individuals in business, who may have been doing business for a few years and who have done well, think twice about and help them to the best of their ability and help them get an apartment. But in order to get help, they have to pass payment, and unfortunately they often fail to show the status they are in, perhaps for years they have been paid rent. This indicates that although they could pay $200,000. For a few years, they don't have a chance to buy a hundred thousand bucks. per month. We know that many of these young people are also underreached because, as we have seen, they may have had a small loan, or some other reason, they have landed on that dreary list and are trapped there for four years, and perhaps, as it has been, because of illegal loans. Of course, it is quite remarkable that this is possible, that even four years, even longer, because of illegal loans are still tolerated. There's something wrong with us in this system. We know that during the collapse of the bank, in 2008, a huge number of people were underreached, who may have been unable to fulfill their commitments, both because the gangs changed, as well as because of inflation. The payload was multiplied. The most remarkable thing about this was that people were found to have never made a law - paying assessment, and as a result, they could not be attached to those who had been collected as done, let alone posting them on records. And those who were underdeveloped because of these illegal loans and did not have credit ratings had some difficulty getting out of it. This tells us that it's a bad system, it's a bad system that we have and in no way humane in that way makes it easier for people to get their own apartment, people who want and can and who have shown that they can do it but can't. Creditinfo is one of the companies who makes this payment, and they are selling and making personal information about people, the information about how to earn money. That's what happened. paritaprevir Sæland Happyland that they also had a court library, and there's another ugly catch on this sort of sales business, to sell, for example. medical information that is included in court reviews, even Supreme Court reviews, very sensitive medical information. They pay and sell, even personal details, with social security, address, and everything. That sucks. I can only confirm it because I've been in it myself and I've got to see it in black and white. It was pointed out to me and showed me what it was like, just because I had an accident. It's a good deal, and it sucks, just as shit as in this case. Of course, we should not be at that point where we are able to buy and sell such information, and second, that we have given permission for this kind of operation. We're supposed to see our dignity shutting this down. We are to see our dignity in respecting personal protection. And maybe it's the worst part of this, for example. In connection with the medical records, and most amazing of all, the Minister of Justice points to Perone Protection, Peritoneal Protection Pointing to Minister of Justice, and no one does anything. Yet it is quite clear, completely clear, that this is illegal. I think that exactly the same value for these financial information, exactly the same thing. We have banks, people do business with banks, and people are expected to be able to trust that the bank has information about their financial status and whether it is responsible. If the person has already shown that he is a trusted businessman, they may be sent to the Creditinfo for a credit evaluation, as it were at the end of the year. paritaprevir Sæland Howil. Maybe there you can do a doll, what? 55 million or something. It's just, "Hey, you owe, and then you have to prove you're innocent. The person does not have to prove that he owes you, no, but needs to go and prove his innocence. That's where the whole thing is turned upside down. It's totally incomprehensible that we should be in this place. Now we have a bank of state. Why don't we use Kingdom booths and let them cut this cord? That our state banks, as they have called, are taking care of the people and taking them, but not having individuals pay a lot to a third party, which may have false information from the bank. I don't know, it's starting to turn completely upside down if you start thinking about it, that you can get information from banks that are wrong, that you get offers from third party and pay it. In itself, a person is paying him for information, and he has the wrong information that he himself needs to be corrected. I'm quite convinced that if we brought this to the courts or something like that, it would hit our fingers. That's for damn sure. We are to see fit to clean up these matters. We're supposed to create a system, a humanized system, and number one, two and three, we're supposed to make sure that such sensitive information is not being sold, whether it's medical information or financial information about people. This isn't supposed to be a sale product, ever. By accepting this bill, we will see to it that it will not. The people say, "The people first, " and then the rest comes. ' But not at all, but we ought to make sure that someone is selling and making money, whether it is on the medical or financial information of individuals. It's not a market market, it's never supposed to be.
