ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u1	The President has received a letter on the reinstatement. Hv. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson calls it again. 78, No. 78, which turns to study in brilling and gardening.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u2	The President has received a letter from the secretary of the financial and economics requesting every time to provide written answers to the requested questions. 517 for the import of cheese and meat, from Seystein, Sæmundsson, and yeh. 765 on reimbursement tax and category of automobiles, from Björn Leví the son of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u3	The president would want to draw attention to the fact that in accordance with the agreement that is currently being prepared at the General Assembly, taking into account the month of February and March, the program can last longer today than the council can expect, or up to 20 members of the Parliament can find out.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u4	President. By permission of the President: We who live in Iceland want to create a just society where everyone sits at the same table. Unlike our background, we have the responsibility for the inheritances of our generations, our country, our history, nature, our language, and our culture. Iceland is a free and sovereign state with freedom, equality, democracy, and human rights to cornerstones. Governments shall work on the welfare of the country, promote their culture, and respect the diversity of life, land, and life. We want to promote peace, security, peace, and happiness among us and future generations. We resolve to work with other nations for peace and respect for the earth and for all mankind. In this light, we put ourselves in a new constitution, the highest law in the country to be respected by all. President. The nation is the director. We work here at the Council under the rules set by the people. This is very important when we consider the day's discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u5	A respectable president. This isn't the first time, and probably not the last thing I'm going to discuss here, i.e. The number of workers in the scattered regions is increasing. How sad it is to say that over the decades there have been extreme failure to move jobs to the scattered settlements, despite the fact that the site of the site of the site, since December II, can be found maps showing up 83 locations in the scattered settlements and over 100 facilities where people can accept jobs without location. The aim was now set that 10% of all advertised jobs in councils and institutions should be free of location in 2024, so that staff selection would not be affected. It's way too slow. Truly, there have been steps, and they should not be minimized. But much more can be done, and some attitudes need to be changed, not just in the plots. But I don't know what method it needs to be used to make it real. Clearly, what has been done so far is not turning back. It's unacceptable, because we certainly have, I think, all of us find it as one, in connection with the epidemic, that it's easy to do a lot of jobs this way. But I'm going to mention one thing that's very enjoyable, in my opinion. Two jobs are now being advertised, i.e. the work of the lawyer and the job of an expert at the Service Department at Húsavík's office. It was an example that came on our table in a budget board, and we took care of it before Christmas. It consists of an arrangement for a specific centrally acting organisation in cooperation with a local government agency in the region. This can be done so far and guarantees jobs that do not have to be here in the capital area. [[The president calls.]] This report also shows that 900 jobs can be advertised without location, 13% State Status. [[The president calls.]] It's not supposed to be that complicated.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u6	A respectable president. There has been a history of interest struggles in students to fight for their rights and better quality of life, the presence of adequate financial security, so students can pursue studies without constantly worrying about their progress. It is widely recognized that society's investment in education and human life is a good investment. But for a change in systems, political will is needed. Students have been loud in their demand for financial security during the last eight years, understandablely, as the struggle is rather slow, although much has been achieved. According to the EUROODENT survey, 72% of Icelandic students work along the course of study, which is a much higher percentage than the number known in the North countries. There are 31% of the Icelandic students in financial difficulties, and 25% feel that their job affects their school performance. Unfortunately, the government's new loan system does not completely control this problem. At that point, we pointed to a restoration of our time and offered suggestions on a better way. It does not mean, however, that a respectable president, if the contents are not fixed, fix the box, so that the loan system does not guarantee forwarding. The global epidemic has bitten hard, and many students have lost their jobs. The job insurance that has resulted from working a student and turning into a non-employment board doesn't catch students who've lost their job. They are left out of control between systems. It's unannounced. This is a temporary situation, a pandemic that has a major impact on the lives and well - being of young people. Adding financial concerns is not the proper way to prevent a loss of study. I know that more members of the council have blessed us with this difficult position of students, but it is important that we continue to make these voices heard in the council hall. This is where the government can do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u7	Mr. President. Today, I would like to discuss the issues of disability, which are certainly not a priority group in the eyes of the government. Their interests are often discussed here at the high General Assembly, but never at the initiative of those in charge. Sir Kolbeinn Stefánsson, a physician in sociology, recently won a case report on disability issues for the Microcracy Alliance, and it's informative. I'd like to take a few notes and give me a few cheers. Councilmen and other interested persons to examine the subject further, especially government representatives. In the debate, the host is climbed to rapidly increase the number of microenergy pensioners with the related cost of the state and the community all, the growing cost of response in the form of radical changes in social security and rehabilitation. It is true, says the report, that microenergy transplanters have grown considerably since the turn of the century, but changes over such a long period of time may give misleading impressions of evolution. In fact, the increase slowed down after 2005, and one writer noted that the latest data also indicate that it was further slowed since 2017. It has been claimed that the growth in microenergy pensioners is largely attributable to young men. This rate has certainly increased in recent decades, but the majority of the growth in disability pensioners is attributed to women 50 years of age and older, or more than 42%. It's a special and serious subject for research. Mr. President. A news-named job assessment is given in the conclusion of the Kolbeinn report, stating that much more should be used to contribute to the general community involvement of microsurgeons, which can better reach those who are totally unable to participate in a workforce, not just to focus on employment activities. Although a business event is an ideal way to function in society, it is less than the only way. It is very important that people's community activities are guaranteed regardless of their ability, and underneath that, we make equal members of the United States strong.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u8	A respectable president. In the administration of this government, economic violence continues to take the worst possible cause. The inflation money was raised with a disembarking of the government and released by the sheep - black masses with rising apartment loans, which are still nothing more than a government record of property. A 3.6% increase during the New Year's season is rising to 4.3% of inflation and one of their worst advice, the poorer and older citizens, the unemployed, is tightening the belt again. How does this government calculate that the worst - identified groups in society are the only ones who do not need financial support during the viral epidemic? Is it because they are the worst, the poor, the older citizens, and the unemployed, have it so bad already in the government, and so it's okay that they are even worse, since it can take long to get worse and they don't feel any pain? This broad area of the government has been identified in the middle of the Covid-19 epidemic, a chain reaction to economicly impaired deserters and older citizens, who have not received a cent raise more than a 3.6% increase during the New Year's season, which is not enough to cover even the level of inflation. Then there are also the absurd and starving impairments that happen to those who die of unemployment. They need to rely on social benefits that do not result, for there is the chain - bearing problem with grassing, worrying about rent, food, and other needs. Then there are also unemployed, which has finished its benefits and has to cut off the miserable low rural development, i.e. If she does not have a dollar in her pocket. In this process, family members are dwindled in a dreary and demeaning way. Disregarded, starving for individuals, children, their families, and so on, with unpredictable results. How can we here at the General Assembly allow these discrimination centers to continue for a decade without responding?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u9	President. Life's a hitter, singin' Papar. Life is a good one, but it is not that people's life and health are justified in what others say and what they mean. Since 1994, so - called collection boxes have been allowed in Iceland. However, the technology of these machines has undergone tremendous tolerance over the 26 years, developing to the point that it is a deliberate gambling technology, particularly developed to be extremely addictive. Modern machines are so addictive that they are often spoken of as electronic heroin. This is a business that went from being somewhat innocent to being an unsupervised venture. It is unlikely, most distinguished president, that the will of the Lawgiver stood to allow the gambling machines to function in the form they are today and under the pretext that public spending is being reduced. We know that studies show that the vast majority of those who gamble are severely addictive. This has nothing to do with voluntary donations. They're not people who can handle it. The reality is that there are a few painful individuals who sacrifice everything with large sums of money and play life away. It is no longer people who throw quarters in the slot machines as soon as they get a hot dog out of the shop as they used to. When a meeting ban was set for Covid-19 in March, card boxes were closed. Then they were opened again, but they are likely to be closed until February 17. Then they might open up: The viewpoint scans show that the majority of people are negative about the financial value of gambling. President. There are few therapeutic options, and suicide is common among compulsive gamblers. There are no studies to show that compulsive gamblers would prefer gambling on the Internet. None. On the contrary, it was in my conversations with Alma Hafsteinsdóttir, the president of the Coalition of compulsive gamblers, that these people go home, go back to their homes, and go to rottener to a much greater degree. Is it not time for governments to take up the blame for those suffering from gambling and their families? [[The president calls.]] Today, the leaders of the current law are smiling, and governments need to respond immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u10	Mr. President. I remind you of government goals on climate. We both see and hear attempts to minimize them with all kinds of grades. I consider it to be both progressive and responsible and effective, which is of utmost importance, with repeated updates on the action programme being reviewed annually according to results. The latest update will be delivered according to the Paris Convention in the near future. The main points are 55% less emissions, and at least show up in front of them, I draw attention to them. It is also said that stages will speed up carbon binding, and this is done by various means, as we know, and development cooperation is easily established by climate - related actions. The role of the State in all of this is to contribute billions of dollars, directly to my emissions, and it takes place. to these 55%, and also to help reduce emissions by means of funds and other donations, laws and regulations and other sources. And who are they? There are societies, there are companies, there are institutions, and it's the public. Three of the first members can set ambitious goals themselves and add percentage points so that emissions of Iceland over 55% can easily reach 60-60% by 2030. We thus stand in a position similar to that of nations who have such goals and reach them. by energy exchange in electricity production and house warming because we're on green suspects. Hence, the comparison is not reasonable.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u11	A respectable president. During the last few days, there has been a media study on the lack of speechd material on the Dney+ task force, which became available to Icelanders. Icelandic experts and advisers have called attention to this and sent a reminder to Disney on the subject. This is fine, for we want to protect the Icelandic language, the language that is at risk if we do not protect it. But we need to look closer. The texting of national television is almost unique in Icelandic TV. The texting of domestic material would be useful to tens of thousands of people. Even foreign child material lacks lyrics, and hearing - impaired children who find it difficult to monitor speech miss out on their children's material. It has been the struggle case of the deaf, in Icelandic text, always adheres to the graphics provided by the national media host, and the text that reflects the volume of the audiocassette as accurately as possible. The bill of this material has been proposed several times. paritaprevir The young man Svandís's Svavarsdóttir, now the minister, but not the way to go, which is unfortunate. Some 200 children and teenagers need hearing aids in this country. Also, some 15% of the people are hearing impaired in some respects. A respectable president. Today, the locks of children who have been deteriorating are high. Texting on material could increase the reading of children. However, it is not merely a view of child material that is lacking but a lyrics to another Icelandic subject, such as movies and social discussions on television. At the beginning of a pandemic, a texting for TV programs for hearing loss was well - off. It was then a joy to see the sign language visible. But better still, if sufficient, it is important to make good use of the available experience to continue in the same course. It would be out of control that we politicians could tell the matata to this point, until then it is our responsibility to put pressure on this justice issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u12	A respectable president. The construction of an apartment building in the region has moved on after a long break. That's even. to thank the Buriotti hired in March 2018, but the tenure company is an important factor in the construction of a facility that the EEA has been working on in one way or another since 2013 and is now being implemented. The role of new housing and housing services is to contribute to the stability of housing markets and to ensure the public access to an adequate and manageable facility, whether at property or rented. Brieti is designed to be part of a tenure structure and development that contributes to a special security structure in the country. The Society cooperates with rural communities and its long - term objective is to promote innovation and construction where land facilities are needed. The Society is an independent partner who is focusing on business and long - term renting apartments than the partner builds or buys older housing for renovations and buys and sells, to match market needs at local and time. The very existence of the Burets tenure society has proved itself, and the Society, along with the share loans, is disrupting the collapse of a housing market in many parts of the country for years. It also ensures that there is a rapid reaction to the need for housing after the natural disaster there in December. Yesterday, a signing agreement on the construction of six apartments was made quickly and there are opportunities to build even more apartments in the near future if necessary. Bríet has also recently published a call for partners on the construction of suitable apartments on Shrimp and Deepvogur, and an apartment building is being started on the weapons industry. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u13	V.E.G. President. Tomorrow, February 4th, is the International Day of Cancer. So I'd like to use this opportunity to remind us of a resolution adopted here at the General Assembly last year, on June 30. It discussed measures to minimize the costs of cancer therapy and chronic and life-threatening diseases. The secretary was assigned to report that no later than March 1. This conclusion is vital; the detection of cancer affects many people, and we see examples of it in the efforts of power, a supportive community for young people with cancer, these days. I also want to use this opportunity, and again I want to focus on increasing the female age range from 40 years to 50. The decision was postponed, so it's still ahead. The evidence is that it is all right, since there is no evidence to support the proper use of 40 years. Do these data exist? Is there an analysis of how many women were diagnosed with screening over the age range 40-549 years, or how many were diagnosed as symptomatic? There's a big difference. Remember, in recent years, an average of 31 women, which must have been significant, have been seen between 40 and 750 years of age. Women want to take responsibility for their health. We're supposed to increase access instead of stand in the way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u14	A respectable president. When competitive laws first appeared in the United States in 1890, the objective was to protect consumers from high prices and to limit their availability. The U.S. Supreme Court has stated competitive laws and competitive legislation as important to economic freedom as the Constitution itself is for the protection of human rights. A competition is a final tool to promote a more varied supply and lower price prices for the public. During the New Year's season, a method of distribution of tollovates in foreign agricultural products was adopted, which is the fact that import permissions is distributed to the highest bidder. In order to import goods without tolls, immigrants have to pay posts. In the case of the management board of professional drivers, it has been reported that the fee has gone down for some time, but the annual process, or actually older, was adopted to determine the cost and that it has increased again. Of course, this change will likely lead to prices in groceries. It's like that. 65% increase in tollovates for beef, 115% increase for organic poultry and to import certain kinds of ham, parmaskinku, or serranoskinku, 29-fold for tenders. If the purpose was to protect Icelandic agriculture, could it not have been done in such a way that farmers themselves would have benefited? The actions of the government today are based, not on direct support from operators, but only on compromising the position of rivals. This is a problem with other government support measures today, since the measures have exactly been in direct support. Of course, commercial food production deserves support and to live under conditions and conditions to flourish, but the government's war against the sernois is a bit smiling. Government defenses on the border are enormous. Is there any danger to the public from a pair of people we don't know? Is this some kind of security issue? Or why is the government united in reducing competition, raising prices, and reducing public options?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u15	Mr. President. Thus, the current epidemic in society will probably not be changed until the fall of the year. This means that the wheels of the economy will be a second start than expected. This means that those who are unemployed today go to more extreme unemployment rates. This means that people will be in danger of losing their home, expecting to be in the hands of banks and other loans. What interests me, by discussing this, is that we have to stop the public property from being again confiscated, as was done in the years following a collapse. Recently there has been an answer to one of those factors, i.e. The apartments that the apartment loan fund took from people in those years. The answers have caught very little attention, as remarkable as they are today, for they include 10,000 people, 4,000 families. There is still silence about what Iceland's Landsbank did in these matters at the same time and will be able to break it to the best of its ability. But what I'd like to say is that we need to prevent it by all the advice we have to make this situation come back. The government must be preconceived that banks and loan agencies could now be reasonable for homes in the country, not going the same way as bad health followed the collapse.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u16	President. I'd like to open up for the political discussion that we've been discussing here in the last few days and weeks, and not blundering after the horrors of the news because both the mayor's car and the office of political parties were used by firearms. I attended a meeting of the Council of the Baltic Council on Monday, where these matters were being addressed and the current situation, e.g. in Sweden, for this is a global problem. In this case, one in three politicians has been subjected to harassment, threats, violence, and the decision not to talk about individual matters for fear of all of this. In this regard, four out of ten journalists have avoided discussing specific matters because of threats. It is a serious situation that we live in all over the world, although I have looked to Sweden because I received this information at a hearing. I think we're in here, and all of us involved in politics need to be very aware of this. We must agree to do everything within our power to counteract it. As a result, I try to look at things and see what they can teach me. In view of all that has happened, I have decided to make certain rules. I have decided not to judge my words in such a way as to accuse my fellow council members who decide to go one way above another in favor of political violence, not to accuse them of treason that do not have any other views than I have, not to call them evil names or accuse them of wickedness, not to tell people to take over public discussions, and not to try to use a demeaning and embuncible label. This is what I have decided to do in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u17	V.E.G. President. How and what production do we expect Icelanders to provide agriculture? This question arose in the Internet months ago, and I think it's a question we should ask ourselves, politicians, and even the whole nation, because the last few weeks and months have been a lot of talk about agriculture and seems to be who we are. There has been a number of articles, and it has been suggested earlier that the government's actions on customs at this time of the year vary from one country to another. In the Middle East, we suggested before Christmas to postpone invitations on customs so that supplies of meat and milk could be taken down in the country, and in the meantime we can meet together and ask us this question: How and what is the production of Iceland's farming arrangements? We must like to be behind the agriculture. I haven't heard anyone come up here in a speech and object. But there are different paths, so that's obvious. In this discussion, there is a large mix between climate and agricultural activities. There I speak of it, and to my party the action must be in the form of motivation, in this case to farmers, that they have the motivation to cooperate with those involved in these mountain affairs, i.e. Scientists and others, so people can work together to put these things on the earth, if we can say so. [[The president calls.]] So agriculture needs to have a clear line for us politicians so that it can be supported.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u18	Mr. President. Everything is subject to change. Sometimes it is big things that have rich interests, and sometimes small things about you are personal. These changes are often not associated, but sometimes they are very much. All of us want to eat healthy and good to keep good health and to keep our lines in check. But that's how many of us are doing. But the other is growing in order to use one's diet to have another kind of good effect on other factors. A fine example of these is those that go downhill and take no animal products in any form they appear. Resurrected youth movement challenged the Party to become the road for a week. That challenge took me, and the week ended at midnight last Sunday. I took it very seriously and followed all the rules of roadman to the utmost. To say the truth, it was not as difficult as I expected, and it has been, as you can see. But this has made me think about some of the things, such as loyalty, expensive well - being, but especially how powerfully we can affect our environment by reducing our consumption of meat and that it will have a growing impact on the agricultural organization here and abroad. Without making any decision to be a success of the future, I have decided to continue on this course again, for it does good to me and to my environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u19	Mr. President. I welcome a brilliant act. Lilja Alfreðsdóttir's daughter's education for speaking of foreign matter on flow patrols. I'll say the highest words. A minister who says unsurpassedly that a great empire like Disney does not use Icelandic speech and translation into Disney+, and she encourages the company to improve it, and I encourage them. At the same time, I want to encourage the highest. Minister to look after everyone. In these periods of information and technology, TV programs are still limited to groups. A major failure is the use of Icelandic TV programs. As many as 16% of the nation suffer from impaired hearing, which means that some 54,000 people are ill - treated with their human rights to observe published material. It affects these people's community involvement to be able to, for example, to do so. without the attention of political debates and other events that are going on in society and the media live. TV viewing, Mr. President, is especially a social activity. The texting of national television will also be of far greater value than hearing - impaired persons, since it enables those with development impairment to enjoy observation, to support children's readings, and to benefit older people as well as those with other mother languages in learning Icelandic language. We all want to promote the English language. So I want to challenge the highest. Education Ministers to improve this, that governments provide the media as television programs, whether news material or other material, support so that reliefs, such as the rest of the world, can be used to text on real - life material. Thus we will guarantee the human rights of all, including those with impaired hearing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u20	A respectable president. It was reported yesterday that the Icelandic government signed a new contract with another vaccine manufacturer, CureVac. What I found particularly enjoyable in that news was that a vaccine was negotiated for 90,000 people. Why is it that I mention this number, which I feel is a little key in all these matters? I brought it into this conversation at the highest level. Minister of health last December - or whether it was now January - when I asked the highest volume. Healthcare Ministers why they would not have agreed with all vaccine manufacturers to buy at least the number of people in Iceland that I think the list and classification of the Ministry of Health and Health are the number of people we would think would be urgent. A lot of effort is required to secure a vaccine for this category so that it can be restored to all of its systems, economics, and normal lives. Therefore, I was pleased to see that it was now being done and immediately negotiated doses for 90,000 people, but this had been done only to one vaccine manufacturer, AstraZeneca, in October but then to Pfizer in a few steps late December. So it was a pleasure. In this context, I would also like to mention, because the debate is whether it can be morally justified that a country like Iceland will complete its vaccinations before others, or the European or Western countries, that I am warning of this discussion because it is urgent, in particular for developing countries, that Western countries will complete the vaccination process, and that the consequences of these closing Western countries are now inexplicable in developing countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u21	A respectable president. The geological tax at health costs is a headline in an article published on visi.is just after Díana Jóhannsdóttir and Sif Huld Albertsdóttir. These include both the bioavailability of the country's population into a broad range of health services and then the cost of the initiative to exploit the bioavailability here in the capital area. This case is a very large national language. The system and coverage seem to always turn, since most users are and be as close as possible to where such decisions are made. There's a lot of weird stuff about this. I think we really need to revise all payment systems and travel costs, as well as how the service is being performed. Now it is just a matter of fact that people living in the country are far less effective at the services of expert physicians or other health care professionals. This also involves what has been discussed recently in the case of speech pathologists, the need for two years of experience in terms of a contract, but these are the speech pathologists that are out in the country. I've heard that the physical therapists are in a position similar to that in the country where there is a new agreement. We need these systems to communicate and work with one another. It is important that we avoid making such wastes and crowding people unnecessary for the family physician to obtain proof or anything else. We need to examine how we can expand our ministry abroad so that there are not many who need to go south and such. That's what we need to talk all the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u22	Mr. President. It is more than a dropping house, and with irons it is more than a covert from the wind and the wind. Housekeeping is not a luxury that should merely be open to wealthy people. It is a matter of human rights, not traditional markets. A secure home is a place that makes individuals and families secure, so we call it a beautiful word home. According to a new report by the work group on the social reform markets published on Monday, as many as 7,000 people in a national employment facility, of which 4,000 live in the capital area. A high rent and tenacity of rent houses is thought to be the main explanation. Such an arrangement can pose a real danger when something happens, e.g. by fire or when people simply lose rent houses. The report confirms what has long been known to be a major collection of housing needs in the country. Three thousand apartments a year are needed to make it up in the next ten years. The market has not been able to solve the housing problem or the government. The United States proposed an eight-way housing strategy in 2018 to provide better housing security for people, but the government has only initiated a fraction of that action during the season. Sadly, governments's actions on housing have been too liberating and obviously failed to produce enough results. Instead of working hard on lasting solutions, governments have rather tried to extinguish fires when it has been necessary. This report will address all of us in this room. After all, it is especially important for us to ensure that everyone here has a more affordable home and, unfortunately, Mr. President, is still quite a factor in our country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u23	Mr. President. I wanted to use this opportunity to draw attention to myself. Councilmen, therefore, face issues related to the Dizziness Course. These words contain the highest force. A secretary of transportation, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannesson, with a press conference that presents the results of a group of work that has worked to assess the location of transcontinental roads. Without having the opportunity to see the results from this, I would like to say that I hope that the results of this service group appointed by government agents, the Vega, and the rural communities here in the capital area will be solved by a knot that has been in touch with local selection. I really hope so, because this is an enormously important transport improvement, not just for us who live here in the capital area, but for a large percentage of the population, all those living in the western part of the country, and a long way into the Northland, I think it is safe to say. For decades, a swimming track has been dwindling in the discussion at regular intervals. I remember sitting in the city of Reykjavík, probably 30 years ago, looking at the plans for the location of the Sunway, so this has been done in various ways. I'm hoping that the steps that have been taken in transport during this ideal period will enable us to implement plans in this regard. I'll remind you what to do. paritaprevir The Brís Haraldsdóttir and other members of the Independence Party have proposed a matter of Congress that will allow for a private action in this field. I don't think there's anything left to wait for the job to happen, stop planning, stop talking about how we're going, and let the work talk in these materials.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u24	The President would like to suggest that the space for the speech period associated with an agreement on the adjustment of the meeting week and that we now work for the rest of the week, i.e. extending the time before the council, allowing up to 20 members of the council to make room for 100% supply and demand in one point. Twenty members of the council requested to discuss the work, and 20 members of the council were able to do so. Must be a cause for joy, especially of those who are marketed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u25	Mr. President. There is reason to congratulate people who, along with many others, are now receiving Icelandic citizenship. It must be a happy moment for all these people. But I still want to make a comment once more on the arrangements involved. They want the People to decide whether or not to follow any information. However, if they want this to be done elsewhere, as suggested by the court, and I understand that the Ministry of Justice began at its own time, they do so. But there is a problem in mixing this thing together without the council having information on the basis or any other information about what it is accepting, so I will not vote on the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u26	A respectable president. Just so you're clear about this, the council's gonna get some information on these matters, and that's under no circumstances. The General and Education Committee that reviews them, and actually gets a lot of information, so much so that they have to be very confidential about them, just to make it clear. But you're right about what you're talking about. paritaprevir If Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, began to believe that other senators do not have access to this information, this process is strange. It has to be acknowledged. The key to this is to improve existing legislation because we come back and forth because people don't fit in the boxes we install, and legislation is always a box. I agree that this is a strange process, but we have to keep doing it while we haven't fixed what we already have to do with the existing legislation. I think it's a long-term project. It won't be done with a simple bill, but I think it's very important that we keep it in mind. These critical voices will arise. There's something in them. But we need to be careful to resolve the problems that result from the fact that this process is as important as it has proved to be, but it has proved to be very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u27	A respectable president. A member of the Subcommittee's work took part. I'd like to state that this is a very careful job. Although it does not submit to administrative rights, all applications are carefully reviewed and the vast amount of information available to make the decisions made. On the other hand, I'd like it to be perfectly clear: The vast majority of people get that kind of citizenship according to the way we would consider normal. But there is nothing strange about it, and it is very common in the countries around us, that there is someone in the administration, whether it is the president or the legal authority, who has an exceptional motive in providing citizens' rights, and I don't think anything wrong with that. Recently, change of civil rights law was made, so much more is needed now than before, and that certainly is improving. I agree with what. paritaprevir The Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, surely it can continue to improve that law, for the council still has to intervene and give access.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u28	Mr. President. This process is very opaque. Three senators agree to review applications. I have no idea what's on the table in front of the fine senators. I know they're doing their best to choose from this group of people who are applying for it. This process is a major defect. I don't know how to vote with something I don't know what is. I have no idea who's applying for citizenship in Iceland. I have no idea. It is far more likely that this will go through a process that is obvious and beneficial than it is to have some form of selection committee that will choose this. I won't vote for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u29	Mr. President. I did not participate in handling this matter from a committee. I will not vote with or against; I will sit by in this vote. I simply think it's wrong for the General to take on a project like this. I feel that a project like this should be held in a administrative capacity, making it clear that my attitude does not affect those who are now granted the citizenship or have been received as long as I have been here at the council. It's just that I don't think the General should be on this kind of project. I think we all know an example that has been made by members of the general council, and they have applied themselves to individual individuals. I'm not sure this procedure is going to be the case. This process is not beneficial. This process isn't what it's supposed to be. We need to change this. I don't vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u30	Mr. President. Of course, I vote with this bill that will be passed on to a law that will give certain individuals citizenship in Iceland and encourage members of Congress to fulfill their role as lawgivers. Here we are giving a citizen's right to the current law in Iceland, and those against that law can use their strength in this room to perform an attempt to change their laws or to change their arrangements, but do not avoid or ignore the citizens' rights interest to people who apply for it in accordance with local laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u31	President. I ask curiously how it is decided that the next event will be interrupted, if necessary, at three o'clock. I ask in view of the fact that the matter that will then take place is a matter of Congress that has taken priority over other members of Congress, which was above that order. I hope to the highest. The president can explain why quick treatment is in this particular case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u32	A respectable president. I recommend here to the Committee's list of changes in bill proposals to legalize the change of public penal law in terms of sexual privacy of individuals. This is a big step toward women's freedom, so we should be glad that we have come to this place. Sexual immunity has been in the discussion, particularly in connection with what has sometimes been called a vendetta. Today it is called digital sexual abuse, i.e. The great threat that threatens sexual privacy of individuals, especially women, that nude images or other materials used to prevent sexual privacy are used to humiliate, humiliate, oppress, or otherwise flatter women, in order to control them, in order to put them in place. The situation today in the general law of penal law is that articles about this behavior are inexplicable. They have been applied in different ways to courts. They have not always been sufficient to grasp a course of conduct that we truly agree that should be considered a punishment. It has not been consistent because judicial decisions that actually do not refer to the activities involved are being used. This has been a case of shamelessness or similar, which has just not been enough to cover this particular category of crime in a century of media. On the way, we take some steps to update the privacy of the general penalties so that they step into the 21st century and accept the computer technology, take it in particular, and carry it as part of their resistance. This is also done because courts do not agree on what is supposed to be a close relationship. Thus, some judges have felt that these individuals lived together for a year in order for a close relationship to fall under the law of punishment, while other courts do not. Of course, this has resulted in discrepancies in judicial action, inconsistencies, and injustice over the violations of these offenses. But only on the history of this law. Sexual immunity may not be a new term, but it is a term relatively recent in this discussion that could be said to have begun with the movement #freer host or #frretheple. It can be traced back to 2012, but its release here in Iceland might be traced back to 2015. The #frrethenpple is an international movement traced to the U.S. documentary since 2012, where women were watched running bare-heartedly in the streets of New York City. The objective of the film was to shed light on the sexlike state of the body. Women's breasts are considered sexual, not men's breasts, despite often being much bigger. Women are being arrested for wearing bare breasts, even without improvement in such arrests, but men can bear their bosoms without anyone getting breast-fed. Similarly, women's breasts have been used against them. Lords regard pictures of bare-hearted women as a tool of oppression. If they do not want to see the pictures being distributed, something that a few light - dressed men ever need to experience or fear, they are at risk of being viewed as immoral only women's breasts. All this injustice brought war to young Icelandic women by the end of March 2015. Adda Þóreyjardóttir Smáradóttir, a student at the Versing School, rode on the wall and published a picture of her breasts on a Twitter who she thought would react more strongly than if a boy would do the same. The response was immediate, hundreds of Icelandic women published similar images on the Internet, but they hit many walls at the time of publication. Their breasts were considered sexual by the materials of the community media that merely emphasized the wrongs that the women wanted to point out. At least the social media was filled with bare - hearted men. # Fretheniple was, in particular, a battle against the former oppression, that women must live under the yoke that their own bodies are being treated against them. By taking control in their own hands, by passing over a legalist's body, and by breaking down the harmful attitudes of women, they took the weapons from their oppressors or, as a member of the Feminist School of Versailles said in the media at the end of March 2015, with the permission of a president: 'It's something you shouldn't regret. I mailed a picture like that and I just thought, "Oh, fuck, am I ever going to regret it? But then I thought it didn't matter. We're poaching revenge porn, and this is doing a lot more than we think it's doing. A respectable president. It was 2015, and it has certainly taken a considerable amount of time for the Lawgiver to respond to these women's pleas for increased justice and increased protection from sexual immunity. We are now in 2021, and we are finally about to agree that sexual immunity should be protected from the common law of justice. So I'm going to consider the history of the bill that lies here and the contents of it. The first to suggest a change in public penalties to protect sexual immunity, at that time, was called a ban on vengeance, a group of Bjarts'futures. In time, the problem broke out. paritaprevir Pirata, the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, itself and put forth the bill for the prohibition against digital sexual abuse. He did so twice, and the second time that the treatment ended in 2019 C.E., there was considerable work on a committee. Many reports were received, and much effort was done on the side of the council, which was then taken into the preparatory work in the construction of this bill. The bill is employed after a lot of groundwork, especially María Bjarnadóttir's daughter, the lawyer and doctor, and how to thank her very much. She made a report on this subject and others, followed by this bill, which was submitted for the year by the highest power. Minister of Justice. A general and educational committee has discussed this and has brought up many good visitors listed in the Committee, and there is no need to be called here. The bill suggests changes to XXII. in the general penal code of sexual abuse and XXV. The chapter of the law on mismanagement and violations of privacy. A change in criminal treatment laws is then required to ensure the effectiveness of the changes proposed to the penalties. The contents of this bill, as I've been on, aim to strengthen the rightfulness of individuals taking into account the social changes that have resulted in increased technology and a change in attitudes toward sexual abuses in Iceland. I'd like to come on a few things. First, the opposite of the matter is to forbid distribution without consent. The first section of the bill, with the review of the Committee, is: ▪ Anyone who builds, feeds, scatters, or displays footage, text, or similar material, including false material, of the nakedness or sexual conduct of another man without his consent, should be guilty or imprisoned up to 4 years of age. This is the basic piece of work that we propose to be punished under public law. We also suggest that the same punishment should be done by the one who threatens the one who understands at 1st. the threat causes fear or anxiety in the person involved. Uninvolved wrongdoing involves fines or imprisonments up to one year. We're also upcoming this immunity, as I entered, a respectable president, in general penalties so that he can control the computer technology adequately and recognize that it exists, digital media in general, and we set in special terms when it comes to the sanctimonious violations, these general ones, which are about to see it as a penalty if it is committed in public interest or personal interest. The reason we do this is to assume that these laws can be used against, for example, those laws. journalists or individuals in search of their source, or individuals speaking about a violation of their immunity publicly, whether any dodoers are involved in what others might use to silence those who endure. Of course we don't want that, Mr. Honorable President. There were some opinions in the treatment of the bill. First of all, it was noted that it might be possible to specifically indicate that it would be effective to induce dysphagia if this episode occurs against a child under 18 years of age or against individuals in a particularly sensitive situation, such as disabled. Most experts who presented the committee agreed that this was not necessary because when it came to crime against children, other laws of general penal law would work and could be added to a description of this offense to cover it for swallowing. In this case, special attention should be given to disabled persons so as to avoid potential deportation in some form of conflict. Speaking of disabled people in this mood and of none other way, it cannot be relevant, etc. There's something that needs a more comprehensive view that I think we should take. Then there were a few things that the communicator in me and me and Piranha had noticed, for example. The expression "circumcised " or" acquired. " As noted in a committee study, it was widely discussed what this might mean, what would be viewed as such behavior, e.g. Whether this action description would be met by searching for some kind of picture on a search engine. On the contrary, it was pointed out that the actions listed at 1 Corinthians 15: 33 were included in the Law covenant. mg, i.e. obtaining or others, is consistent with a list of similar fractures, including 210. g. a general penal law. Then the term "shiping " has received some publicity on a judicial hearing, indicating that this action provides evidence of the meaning of the term. Of course, the committee feels that it is important that there is agreement between these decisions and points to a discussion on the changes made by the Committee. There's a little discussion about this, that it needs at least a minute. to save and download images for this job description to be fulfilled. In addition, it is always necessary to establish a suspected fracture. What I was most afraid of was that this could be used as some kind of open source to monitor Internet traffic and other such. However, this should not be because there is always a need for self-employment, a presumption of a particular offense, but not a general suspicion that the common Internet population of this country is large in loading illegal material, and that this is in accordance with 210 gr. a involved in child pornography, how it is defined. There's a court order around it, and at least it struck. a little bit of my concern. The bill also suggests that this sort of crime will be punished. According to general penalties, the principle is that violations of intent, i.e. that the wrongdoer must be determined to carry out his assignment. But we put a certain incompetent authority as the basis for penalties. In the treatment of the case, there was a view as to whether subjects were to limit responsibilities, such as gross inadequacy. And the difference between those who are not always wondering about this is that a major failure means that the individual realizes that the action profile could be fulfilled, realizes that the damage that is being prevented, is forbidding people to cause, may well be made by the person's behavior, but, in a light bed, is in reality the consequences of their actions. In the case of ordinary neglect, there is a much lower burden of evidence; the person may not have realized that the consequences would be the way they came. This is a lower degree of responsibility for the cowardly part of what is already assessed as to the use of violations. On the other hand, the committee noted that she does not feel the need for staging a law code with intent - to - dodging frames. This is simply so that there is a greater difference between these offenses, between indiscretion and intentional fractures. This is in accordance with the general practice of penalties in general and generally, i.e. that there are often significant differences between the penalty frame and the indiscriminate violations of self, the major offenses. So we thought it right to suggest that the estimated two years of the sentence, according to the original bill, be reduced to a year. But instead of setting a higher goal in extreme impunity, we keep ourselves unconcerned until we maintain these powers of oppression, to prevent people from participating in this criminal activity, that people need to be a little careful about how they treat sexual privacy. We also make adjustments to 228th and 229th pars. a general penal law. It has been concluded that these provisions need further consideration, that they are not necessarily ready, that there is no reason to change them completely, and that they should wait until the council has decided what it will do with the general penalties. The committee noted that this council has not yet been reimbursed for reform. It is our opinion that this bill only includes minimal changes in which individuals who are not close to their citizens are seeking adequate protection from their privacy. Here we are also particularly concerned that the position of those in a sensitive position, such as those who are disabled, the importance of their legal protection, as is the case with the release of unauthorized footage. The committee found that it is quite common for disabled persons to get involved in the picture of their delicate position to be shared in an unauthorized condition. For example, some films of people in a very defenseless position, even naked at some medical facility or some of them, are used in conferences, are distributed without their consent. In many ways it may be explained that disabled people are not considered sexual creatures, that their sexual immunity cannot be hurt, since they are not viewed as sexual people. So we felt that it was very important to keep 228 gr. inside because it features pictures of disabled people in a delicate position; it is very clear that they are part of this mood; hence, it is very clear that no film is to be distributed, nor is it to disabled people in a more sensitive position, seen from prejudice. Then there were indications that it was good to do the other or this along the way, that it would be good to raise the line of sexual harassment so that it would be in harmony with this fraction; that there would be a need to weigh the penalty of distribution and possession of child pornography. These are all needs and correct and practical tips, but I believe that there is always a problem with changing public penalties. From the very beginning, there is always the need for all to be able to take the conversation, so that reviews can focus on exactly what is being done into general penalties and for the professional discussion of the Committee to discuss exactly what is to happen with the general law of penalties. We're here talking about the criminal responsibility and penalty warrants against the citizens, and it needs to be very clear what is being done at one time. So I felt that it was not right for me to go for any rise in the penalty frames in other offenses along the way, but I would recommend working at the Ministry of Justice when it comes to child molesters and child pornography. Likewise, I would feel that it is a reason for me, whether for the Ministry or for the reason. The General and Education Committee, to investigate the implementation of a bill on the committee for raising the line of sexual harassment for four years, just as this fraction implies, just in agreement, and because it can often be just as serious a crime, if not more serious than it is, that is finally able to enter the general penal law. I'm not gonna have this much further, a respectable president. Once again, I want to celebrate the coming of this matter to this place. It is the result of cooperation and opposition. I'd like to allow myself to wonder at the end if we'd been to this place just a little earlier if the cohesion had been just as great on both sides. But at this point, there is little to argue about. Here we are. That is because of the contribution from many categories, the bright future, the Piranha, and now the highest. Minister of the Independence Party, and of course all the good senators sitting at ease. A top-of-the-art Board of Education, and they've been working this case with the people here. So I want to finish my case by listing them why. Councilmen at this committee party. That's, plus what's standing here, huh? Councilmen Páll Magnússon, chairman of the Committee, Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir Árnadóttir, Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir Ginnisdótttir, Birgir Ármannsson's son, in advance, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Guinsdottttir, Þóra Tóri Björna, Þárbjörídur Gunlugadótir, and Þögstein Sæmundsson. I thank them for their good cooperation on the Committee and for the time being. The U.S. Senate to rapidly accept this matter so that we can finally take this important step in protecting our sexual privacy in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u33	A respectable president. First, I want to celebrate the arrival of this matter. As discussed in the front row with a committee party, I set aside a bill with the same objective. The reason I made that statement was twofold because I believe that in order to ensure freedom, oppression has to be banned. A major problem that has resulted from the Enlightenment Revolution, the use of nude images, or the use of sexual material for oppression or offenses on the private life of others has grown tremendously. It has always been, at least as long as cameras have been available, but these fractions have become so easily and impatiently common and overly hurtful that it takes special action. The second reason I wanted to contribute a bill is because I think it's a very high risk for us to make a mistake. The underlying technique is thus the international nature of the Internet and computer technology, that it is difficult to intend to ban behavior which is dependent on our having information that we do not want to keep and watch that we do not want to live on. The stress there is very much in the problems that result from the information technology. This is no exception. This often requires a tightrope dance in an effort to reach specific goals. One particularly has to do with obtaining these images or of this sexual content. I've had a little trouble with it over the years because it's very easy to commit by accident. Google, the world's most popular search engine, looks for pictures of bare - hearted women or naked people, as well as for nudity, and then a lot of pictures of naked people and other things get a lot more serious. There is no way for a normal user to plan on using such a search engine for innocent acts without seeing pictures of trespassers. Even searching for pornography, sex, or nudity may not even be necessary for such images. This cannot be held responsible for the users. There are no surveillance clearances for the police, which suggest that they can examine anyone who might make this mistake. In this regard, however, the challenge is to make a living, as it is said, and to create research warrants that assume that they are more than the usual offenses involving so low in prison punishment for a year or two. It also involves questions of inadequacy, since it is also twofold. The weakness I was describing is something that I think that every journalist has repeatedly shown in his work, and people who look for pictures in general life often do it without even realizing it. There's a sense of inadequacy. We do not want it to be punished, at least not so that the police have access to anyone who uses the Internet in that way. Then we have reduced the rights of the citizens to personal life, to use the Internet in the first place, and second, to fine some offense that they were not doing. However, this is different from the fact that someone takes a naked picture or sex, even with consent, by someone else, shares in knowing that it is forbidden to another or a third party, which then shares it with a fourth party, without which he may have been allowed or not. It's not necessarily that easy to find a straight line. That's why I'm a little worried that we're going to make a mistake in this legal process. I must say, though, I worked very hard to find some reasonable landmark in my own bill at the time. I thank you for the discussion, but I've been talking to some of the people who made it. I have to say, I think the results are very good, and I have no suggestions on how to do this better, so far. I think it's very neat landing or at least as clean as I could make myself. There is quite a possibility that, in the course of a judicial hearing, there are cases where we're doing innocent people a fine about something we don't want them to be guilty of, and it's also possible that we could have some effect on the police's research rights we don't want to do. However, in view of the legal evidence, both the committee opinions, the paper of the bill, and the talk we listened to earlier, I have little concern about this in terms of the bill. I think it's relatively good to keep those problems from becoming real, and thanks to that, it's time to celebrate. This is important because we want, I hope, we live in a free society. This means that we can act in harmony with that freedom in our personal lives without fear of experiencing the terrible consequences of another person's actions. The Internet gives and the Internet takes, and there are many two - edged swords throughout this trend. Then it is important that we discern any freedom we want to enjoy. We do not want to live with the freedom to break our personal life by clicking on a few buttons. We do not want our sexual behavior in private to make us a target for the common people or our closest ones. In that situation, there is a situation where the oppression that we are under obligation to fight and destroy, and as I said early in my speech: To ensure freedom, oppression has to be banned. To ensure freedom, slavery must be banned. I believe this is where we're banning oppression and oppression, and I think it's working. But it's a very delicate, hard-to-wall dance. I can't wait to see the bill turn into a law of soon-to-be which I expect very soon.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u34	A respectable president. I take into account the overall objective of this bill, a matter of Congress, which is to explain the ideal legislation, I do not speak of when it comes to penalties, it is very important that the penalty laws and laws and judicial hearings are very clear and that it be clearly defined exactly what it is to be punished but not given to the courts to interpret legislation. This bill is fine in that it draws out specifically and goes forward and puts in words what the legislators think is punishable, which is especially the distribution of photographs on the Internet, even though the bill represents more, as is explained in a report that it has been important to consider only a few more matters than merely the distribution of photographs on the Internet, as may be the basis of this bill. However, I have felt that in the discussion of the matter, and not only in this special matter, but in terms of the issues presented on the council in recent years, and the leading authority of the committee referred to the misunderstanding, at least. is quite misleading in my opinion that in fact, it has even been claimed to be approved by this specific matter of Congress, as we discuss, that certain behaviours will finally be punished. I find it shocking that the way things are worked out is because, of course, it's not that today, before this matter is approved, it's reckless to distribute photographs of naked people without consent, in the Internet for example, that I don't talk about children, and other ways about which this bill is about. This has been punishable for a long time, and many court decisions have been made. Recently, even if it had placed it on its own digital form and sent it to certain parties, the sentence fell on a naked person who had not granted her permission for such an image to wander on the Internet. This is true in many cases. In the bill's report, I have felt that the lack of a little more was on the subject, i.e. the situation today. The report has a fine table showing how certain fractures have been applied, and I expect them to have been applied to charges. I can't figure it out. The report does not show whether this is an application to the charge or to the application of the judgment itself. But up to one point there is a fine table, and when you look over it, you can see that in all of these cases, all these situations mentioned as examples, they have been applied under 209.g. The penalties, the law of shame - filled. Therefore, I find that the review says that the judgment analysis shows the greatest weakness in the law frame that they are mainly in the blurred limit of the application of sexual harassment and shame. I've been found to lack a small study of this in the report, and I can't find a location where this was specifically discussed, at least in the opinion of the committee. Of course, this may have been discussed with the committee. But I feel that it is important to be clear, in view of the discussion that this case has been discussed and that these violations have been punished, for which they have been punished in a number of cases. Therefore, if a man might ask himself, then he hears me, and I could not answer him. The head of the committee opinion - how it has determined what will be exactly changed with the approval of this bill. Then I refer to the question of whether there is an increase in charges or an increase in judgments, but at least not more severe punishment because this is expected to be the same line of punishment, but it is the option that this bill has beyond any other matter to be found here because it was somehow assumed for a less severe penalty, less penalty frame for this same offense than expected in 209 gr. a general penal law. That's at least It is clear that the billaries and committees do not intend to change the line of punishment. But then I'm just gonna mention it, without me diving on the committee or the committee's work, it caught my attention because of that. It was good to draw attention to the fact that this is especially expected not to be punished in a particular situation, as it is called, when it might be justified by reference to public and private interests. This refers to it if the media are going to deal with personal matters or even distribute what humans have come to think is human private matter, and yet, for years, perhaps hundreds of years, has remained secret. I would have considered it convenient if men had given some example of this in the discussion of the Committee. Since there is not much discussion in the report, it might have been explained to include a brief discussion on this subject and perhaps an example of the circumstances that could justify specific behavior that has been stressed as a punishment. But I'm not going to have any more words about this. I'm mainly stressing that as I see this matter, it works out that I have full faith in, I wonder if this is really important in the justice system. . i.e. On charges, in terms of a court order, except, of course, technical issues. I'm not dealing with the technical issues here, what is being done now, which are recently said, that certain behaviours will be taken into account, but not, as it is currently, that the exclusive requirements. But in terms of unauthorized distribution through digital media, or in other ways, by people who carry without consent, I think it is right to make a decision that it has been, and is punished, and a number of judgments have fallen upon it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u35	A respectable president. I was only going to answer the questions. Andersen The two points that she made the most part of her speech. So I want to start with the exception of the public or private interest, what is meant by that, first of all, I'd like to state that it's not the first law, there's no such thing as to be clear. For this primary offense, against sexual privacy, it is not stated that there is some kind of social or private obligation to distribute nude images or other sexual content, there is no exception. When it comes to accessing data from others involved in their private affairs, not about sexual privacy, but simply about getting rid of the data of others in unauthorizedness, we put in these restrictions exactly to protect the media activities and to protect the endurance of the media as well as those I entered into my storylines, which may speak of or even publish parts of their interaction with their bacteria or something like that. It could also be said that it is the personal interest of the bacteria, that it is to settle it if the victims want to talk about sexual abuse or other forms of privacy they have experienced, that they are not accused of expressing or that they are at least guilty of wrongdoing. Part of the Court's assessment whether or not. And for the media, because of what. A senator asked for an example, and this is illustrated by Glitnis documents. The ban at the moment is an example of this: where the media was put under pressure for having or for being suspected of having under the data of other people's private interest or personal matters; the media had a ban and other such matters were imposed on them. That's an example. But I'd have to come on to the other thing by then. A senator in the second man's answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u36	President. Thank you. The committee's head for returning roles, and it is in fact answering questions that I raised in a talk. I appreciate that, and it's a good point to think that there's not a discount on a certain behaviour or the punishable offenses, e.g. the distribution of nude photos. So the report came up - so I use my time in this counter - answer to ask more questions, as a matter of course. An authority will determine if she can get over - without the question raised here being answered, that perhaps a review of 209 might have been made. Gr., of shameliness; and thus speak a word, as I spoke in my speech, the deed of the matter. I agree that the legislation needs to be, so it has to be clear exactly what behaviour is involved, even though all of us can tell us in our fraction of shame. The question here is not answered why this route had not gone but was thrown up by the bait that would primarily test the interpretation of judges, e.g. effect of consent. It also discusses how we might react to it by reviewing the terms on approval and the right effects of consent. It would be nice to know if the committee had anything to do with this change of law on the subject as well as any impact on the understanding of the agreement. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u37	A respectable president. So I'll tell you what. Then, in the context of changing the wording of this action, a senator was actually consented to reveal that the distribution would be replaced by the person's consent, as stated in the bill, that it was done in a state of trespass. From that foundation, a conversation with the committee involved what was involved in this agreement. It's something we've seen develop into general penal law, such as. When it comes to the charge of rape, we have updated it so that it is based on a lack of consent, not in the past, but not directly that it was opposed or something like that. This is part of the trend that we see in the sexual crime phase. Hv. A senator asked about the expectations of accepting the bill as it is. I'm not planning on whether or not it will lead to further accusations. However, there has been a very clear cry of violations of these crimes, which have been called digital sexual abuse, sneering or vengeance, that there is a clear description of such offenses in common penalties, that it is not based further on universal penalties that can be interpreted in various ways. It is true that these regulations have been used to involve such behavior, but this has resulted in in in discrepancies in a judicial action, resulting in the failure of the situation of a wrongdoer to a person who is involved in a close relationship or not, and it has led to a confusion as to what is considered to be a close relationship or not. All of this is something that has prevented wrongdoers from getting a very clear picture of what is really being punished, that the toleration workers know what they can build their charges and that the police know exactly what they're investigating. [[The president calls.]] I may also want to quote a woman named Júlía Birgisdóttir for banning digital sexual abuse. When the police arrived, the police failed to understand much, and they did so because, in part, they lacked this clear description and are being corrected. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u38	A respectable president. There was no question addressed to me in this case, but thank you for the answer. Following the recommendation. I'd like to mention the 209th par. has been used, as the report shows, both in the application of charges and in the hearings. However, in these matters, as with other penalties, many legal requirements may be used to satisfy others, and this may not have been judged on the basis of all of them, but this may not necessarily be used. There's one law that's emptying it out, as it's called. Hv. An authority mentioned that there was something vague when, as is called, in close contact, but I have not found it in a court of law that there was a doubt in these cases. complete fault, while others are in place for filling and swallowing, the situation is that people are in close contact, not to mention children, but to have other viewpoints that could eliminate the blame rather than 209. I just wanted to make it right with my entrance to this discussion. There is no doubt that the transmission of unauthorized images of naked people, in close relationships or not, has been punishable in Iceland for decades.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u39	A respectable president. I'm here under the promise to finish by three o'clock, I want to make sure they're worried. I'd like to go back to December 18, 2013. Then the General Assembly of the United Nations met and agreed on the right to privacy and privacy in a digital world. There was an appeal to the nations to respect and protect the right to privacy, also in the context of digital communication. This is followed by the circumstances that existed then; there were very large questions as to whether to spy on citizens in order to prevent e.g. It's an illegal download. The issue we discuss here is exactly the same in a larger context. In simple form, this conclusion was to react with all available options, to revise all aspects and laws of the matter, i.e. privacy in a digital world, and that is what this bill is about, and then to ensure transparency and responsibility in government surveillance, i.e. that it ensures that, where the State comes in, monitors various relationships, and so on, there will be transparency and responsibility to gather such data. In a larger context, we are dealing with this problem exactly now over two decades late, but fortunately we are in this place and are completing this step. There are, however, some steps left regarding the context in which we now live, how it has developed in the past decade or so, which may be much more difficult to deal with. But it's a really good foundation to build on, and I'm really glad that this case has come to the place where it has finally arrived.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u40	Mr. President. Here, many people ask for the word, but they don't get close to it right away, because here I have an hour to go and will try to use it all, of course, to discuss these big matters, and doubtless I won't be able to go completely over everything I wanted to say. I recommend a bill to the Constitution order of a change in the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland, No. 33/144. It suggests a change to II. section of the Constitution on President and Commission but further proposed to include terms on nature protection, natural resources of Iceland and Icelandic language and sign language. My assessment is that we have an opportunity at this council to get together for good, significant and important changes in the republic's constitution, many of whom have been called for a long time. The fact is, what we have considered primarily in this hall for the past few years is a historical story, i.e. A series of events that can be traced back to 2009, when there was a debate over a constitution in the introduction of General elections then held, and then the process that began during the season of 2009-2013, where I served in the government and served as minister of education and culture. I could talk about this process definitely for an hour; I'm not going to do it now, but I know that many senators have no idea how to discuss it. I'd like to mention a fine book that was published last year, directed by Ágúst Ástrúnson of Þór Árnason vow, which came to these exact events in its own time, and Catherine Dupré, where there are many characters and players in this process, including President of the Republic today, a variety of scholars such as Salvör Nordal, Jón Ólafsson, Björg Thorarensen, Skúli Magnússon Magnús, Páll Þórhallsson, the Jóhannsdóttir of Aðalheiður and the daughter of Ragnheiður Elfa Þorsteinsdóttir, and the Þorvaldur of Gylfason, and the one here are talking about the whole process. To make a long story short, we, of course, remember the discussion that was held in the spring of 2013 that did not end. In the spring of 2013, it was clear that the discussion would not be over, including Because vessels were about whether there was a greater part of the bill that was then being discussed and the chairman of the second class had declared that it was not right to complete this matter, and I quote them to the earlier Árni of Páll's Árnason, the son of the Year. Senator and chairman of the United States Group. As a result, I had a concluded contract and a special committee that served in the ideal period of 20133/42016, where I would sit. Parliaments from different categories and representatives. That committee won all that ideal period, and it ended with the present at its height. The prime minister moved matters in the same costume as the one presented here, i.e. one bill for which it was recommended, not as a bill of directors, but as the bill for the Sigurður son of Jóhannsson, who then recommended the case. Since the elections were very close, a discussion about that matter was not over. My ambitions made it possible for me to contribute to a parapolitic cooperation with the people during this terms, as shown in the government contract, which is absolutely clear that the great work that has been done for the past 12 years has revealed both the need and the willingness to change and improve the Republic Constitution. That's why I'm talking about this case as an opportunity for the Council to show that we can handle the basic rules of society in harmony with our times and that we are in a position to achieve it as much solid a solidarity as possible. In fact, it has been said that a constitution cannot be changed unless there is a complete solidarity. Perhaps that was a test in the past, since there was often considerable solidarity about change, but not always. That's not absolute. In fact, I think these cases developed in a way that may not be realistic in believing that in this hall there will be a perfect agreement for any change in the constitution. Yet, after I have had quite a number of meetings with the presidents and representatives of the General Assembly during this election period of employment, which I believe all have faithfully and honestly observed that there are enough materials to achieve a solidarity of at least one agreement. many of the changes suggested here. However, in view of the recent discussions that we are discussing regularly in the community, I have to say that part of what we hear too often is that the General Assembly is ruined and politics is in part due to a discussion of government change. That is why I rejoice if there is a great deal of material discussion on the subject where we discuss what we want to do in these matters and look ahead. I believe it is our duty to look ahead and not necessarily stay with all this background that I covered here because it can, of course, take a long time. The presidents of political parties have participated in this work, as I mentioned here, which is a different procedure from what was between 2013 and 2016. True, I was on the committee as the chairman of my movement, where other representatives of the classes were primarily assigned as committees, and sometimes the support of the backyard was unknown. In fact, it became very clear as the work went by, that not all representatives were sure of their support of their backlands in all the suggestions under it. However, I believe, as I mentioned earlier, that although it was discovered as a result of the work that it was difficult for the presidents to reach this task, they may not be able to recover from all changes. There were new ways of dealing with the common people in this work. There was an excerpt and a debate, which I will find later in this talk. It is a methodology that I think is very good, was developed in close consultation with the educational community and is a methodology that we should increasingly use in big fundamental policies. A special project manager, a government assistant, was hired to hold the project. The former president of the Generals, Konráðsdóttir Kálsdótttir, took this assignment, and I know that we are all very grateful for her work. Our original intention was to complete the constitution of the Constitution in two terms. There was something that had been discussed at earlier points, including During the campaign period of 2017, which was then at the highest rate. Prime Minister, current financial and economic minister, announced us for a meeting to discuss the possibility of a complete review of three terms, which would then be based on a Norwegian model. Now approaching the end of an elected period, the results of this approach are being drawn in the bill. In my opinion, it's good and well thought-in' suggestions. I have the impression that very many people can really agree that they are greatly improved, that the bill becomes a administrative law, even though some may be warned of wording or material comments, the bill is a product of consultation, and in its progress it was emphasized to create an agreement between differing views. If I were to present a bill that reflected only my opinion, it would look different. Thus, this case is not only derived from my political reviews -- followed by reviews, I don't know with this expression - it's not derived from my political view, so that I can be creative in the language, but it's based on the work that had been done, previous suggestions, viewpoints that appeared in prefects and representatives groups, on the findings of public councils and scholars that came to work. The bill does not address all the points discussed during this terms. The majority of these proposals were to form, based on the fact that national pay bill that the voters would be part of the proposal, but after the Venice Commission's review of that bill, it was abandoned. It could be said that such views as those expressed in the Venice Committee's opinion should be handled as the lowest of national pay and reserves as little as possible, and, on the other hand, the viewpoints that could be read from the findings of the argument I quoted earlier, which made it clear to the viewpoint that it would be important to enact the subject of national agreements and to have some kind of threshold. So I think they need more work before they can be discussed in a bill form. The parties'view of exposition of authority was different, as was their view of change laws. Now I can admit that I myself have offered suggestions on changing the law at the General Assembly, and I know that many people think they have too high barriers, but it was not my vision that we should try to change the decision at this point in which there are very different viewpoints about how the changing principle should be. As it is today, two council members have to agree. The proposals for changing laws that I myself have contributed to the development of more parts and more barriers in due to Congress's payment. We have also had an understatement, which is simply based on a more simple section, both in Congress and in national pay. There are quite different viewpoints, but all of this was discussed, and experts came to their attention and came to meetings with officers and representatives. For a review of the Venice Committee, published on October 9, the second time, it shows that the Committee considers the objectives of change to be positive, i.e. to improve the constitution to reflect the common fundamental values of the people of the country and establish a solid basis for a democratic and legal state in which protection of human rights is guaranteed. The committee also welcomed the different forms of consultation at the shape of the project. The Venice Commission does not feel that it is her job to give the opinion of which way to make changes in the Constitution will be most successful. However, in view of the fact that the Council of Government has been placed under the national budget and that it was adopted as a basis for a new constitution, it would need to give the nation convincing explanations of government approach and any change from law. As a result, I went to the Institute of Law for the University of Iceland for an opinion, where proposals found in this bill are compared with the proposals of a board and interpretation. The figures are included in the package leaflet with the bill. Otherwise, I don't have to dwell on the obvious fact that I went to the beginning of my case, because here the Venice Committee quotes in the sequence of the campaign in 2009-2013, that the matter was not resolved in the council room for the reasons mentioned earlier. For the past 15 years or so, little has been added to the trend of change. My firm belief is that the only way to make the point is by making politics take what I have called a material discussion about the meaning of a change in constitution. The process has been long, 12 years, and at that time, there has been great turmoil in society and politics. In fact, in the excellent book I quoted earlier, the position to set out in a very extensive constitution, which was originally to be changed according to the council's request for a new constitution, where it was requested to make suggestions for a change in constitution that would lead to the recruitment of a new constitution. It is the kind of social turmoil, huge political projects, and political instability that marked considerable removal. At that time, the members of the House of Governments became even more members of the United States. so that the project did not end. This process has been under way ever since, and this conflict in the process itself, rather than discussing the material changes, is a loud and clear call for all who will listen. A respectable president. Then I'm going to discuss the bill itself and maybe not spend more time with the prehistoric. The bill is suggested for certain changes in II. section of the Constitution on President and Commission. These changes aim to explain more fully the basics of the president, the government, and the minister. Thus, the wording of the laws will be more in harmony with current action and modern view. Furthermore, some significant material changes are proposed. They take into account the law of the Republic period, the study of scholars, compared with other countries, and the results of the general talk I discussed earlier. The newcomers are mainly these: The way is given for the president to be elected by a so - called priority method. It is designed to prevent the election from being a president who has the support of much less part of the nation. The present arrangement can offer that risk home, to form when many are running in the open, with relatively equal support from voters. This suggestion is the result of consultation with the general public, but the reasoning survey strongly indicated that support for the current system was reduced as the discussion of that system started at that meeting. At the end of the discussion, there was a significant increase in support of the arranged election. This system doesn't fall out of the sky. It has a model to form in Ireland, where things have been done and done well. The rest of the European Union, with nationally elected, some of them make a two - round U.S. president if no one receives a clean part of the first one. It is possible to ask, in view of the fact that the office of the President of Iceland is not a position of authority, as do many of the offices in which this is appropriate and is much more like to form the Irish arrangement, whether the two traffic systems were not in a state of inconsistencies with the input of the Presidency. Along with changes in the conduct of the presidency, it is suggested that the election period will be extended to six years and that the same man cannot serve the President continuously for more than two terms, or a total of 12 years. This limitation is the main rule of the President in most parts of Europe, to be condemned by other countries. It can be debated, definitely, whether we want to have such a limitation and whether it should depend on longer periods of time. This may not have been necessarily pointed out in the consultation process, but it has been established whether even 12 years are too short for the presidency and more should be looked at at at at at 18. It has been suggested that such limitations should apply to more than just a president, but then I'd like to remind you that the President is the only national representative we have, the only person elected in the way we vote for president, i.e. He is the only individual who is the National Committee. I believe that's a reason to have a special rule about the President. If the bill is to succeed, the indiscriminate irresponsibility of the President of Iceland will be suspended. What does that involve? Yes, the president is responsible for the actions he performs on his own. While the government's immunity has a historical explanation, it is in most places out of today's view of power and responsibility and also in an international covenant against serious crime. That actually means that if President's actions are not that a minister's proposal is responsible for his own actions. A significant change is made regarding the legal responsibilities of a minister. It is thus assumed that the universal prosecution will be taken away by a special principle, and instead of a state prosecutor having that authority. At the same time, the district attorney is suggested to receive governmental protection as an independent office, as is now the case with the rulers of the court. This has to do with matters that we've talked about here quite often, what we just call daily when we discuss these matters, on the other hand, national judgment and the minister's responsibility. It's something we've been discussing at the Council several times that it's time to revise. A definite change in the constitution is presented here. Then, in review, the General Assembly presents the prosecution to the minister, but here is a change in the case of the district attorney, but the case remains to be considered by the Council and then directed to the district attorney. It is possible in itself to revise the laws on national rights and laws on rights of Ministerhood without changing the constitution. But the prosecution is part of what we propose here to change the constitution. However, certain adjustments can be made in the law. They're from the '60s. Along with this, it has been proposed that the prime figures for changing the Minister's Accountability and the Act on National Judgments I have presented to the presidents and representatives of the councils, and I suggest that they do so. The board of directors and board members might consider these with the opinion of the case. The nature of a case, if the constitution is changed, cannot be addressed for such legal products until the end of the change; however, it can also be reflected on, if the constitution is not changed, that, of course, long ago it is time to reexamine these laws. This has been done in the consultation of the Ministry of Presidency and the Ministry of Justice. Professor Ragnhildur Helgadóttir was asked to review these rules, and I reiterate that it is important for me to consider this with a discussion on the bill. It was interesting to see in the reasoned survey that there was concern over the possible abuse of the prosecution of the Council against counsellors. Before a discussion, there were 70% who felt that such a risk was too high but 79% after a discussion. In terms of national judgment, 60% of the participants were at the start of a meeting, while only 32% were at the end of a meeting. This was one of the issues in which attitudes changed the most as the discussion went on. It is suggested that an old - fashioned arrangement be submitted in the name of the President, for it could be said that his signature proved to be a specific formality. However, the president will continue to play a role in confirming laws as he can continue to deny their consent. It was also interesting to consider the findings of the poll, which clearly indicated that the nation wanted to hold fast to the President's Segregative Authority and, in fact, the bill rests on the foundation that there is much more to it than that the president's power should not be increased and should not be reduced, i.e. to maintain relatively similar government over the presidency of the presidency. Finally it is suggested that regulations involving the appeal of the General Assembly and the continuation of a meeting meeting will be changed in order to underline the custody of the General Assembly in their own work and in the time of work. It is suggested that Congress will no longer drop automatically before a new assembly begins in the fall. Therefore, it must be in the hands of the General of Congress to decide whether the matter of Congress will survive. This is another matter that we have long discussed in this room. The second terms of the bill include an application or further implementation of current values. First of all, the Congress order proposed to be entered into a constitution is a key to our board of directors, which means that governments and individual ministers should have the support of a greater part of the Generals or neutrality. If mistrust is accepted, ministers or according to national events must be replaced. It is suggested that wording of the laws on the creation and role of the government be brought into harmony with decades of action. The lead and coordination role of the Prime Minister is to be met by the Venice Commission's recommendations. The role of the management board in a constitution is recommended and controlled by its authority, as discussed in the times of the Common Era. The bill suggests that the Constitution of government agencies will be updated to reflect the requirements that ability and grammatical views will be involved in the order of officials and their retirement. The terms on breaches, which have been carefully discussed both in this room and in the meetings of directors and representatives, are further developed in the bill so that it is clear that the president and the prime minister share this authority. The president must thus consult with the president of the Generals and members of the Parliament before agreeing to the proposal of a council breach. In accordance with this, the president would be allowed to refuse the proposal for a violation of the council if a new function could be formed rather than an election. Due to a limited period of time, I will not recall all that has been discussed and write about this warrant for the breach. But this I believe would explain the source of the spirit she has been interpreted to, at least in recent years. The President's authority to give an exception from the law and cancel the prosecution will be canceled if the bill becomes a administrative law and will be placed in the Constitution of the Generals' Constitution to cancel a law that the President refuses to approve so that it does not come to national law. Speaking of interpretation, of course, it's something that's been done. Not everyone agreed to that interpretation in 2004 when the Council canceled the law referred to by the then president of the Republic. But that interpretation is confirmed here by these suggestions. These suggestions for the change in II are combined. the section of the constitution is very important for improvement. They take into account the public opinion of the presidency that there is great support for the Presidency as it has developed and that the role of the president should remain relatively unchanged from the present time on. Thus, it can be said that this is not a time for radical change. These are refinements that bring this chapter into modern times and, on the other hand, changes aimed at clarifying the office of the president and the authority as well as the government. I'd like to mention at this point that in the Control Board's Article of the Law and Control, where the background and purpose of the report is discussed, you can compare the bill that appeared in 2011, changes made in a half part of the Commission and surveillance committee, the prime endpoints of the Sigurður of Jóhannsson Jononson and then this bill, to better identify the differences between regulations. So I am coming to meet even the others. Venice's comment that we have it clear why things are done differently here and what the difference is. So it should be very accessible. It shows that this bill changes the role of the president much less than the prime of the Council and the management committee, where significant changes were made and more power is made to the president. These changes are not being proposed, and I believe they are in the spirit of what we have drawn from the polls and polls. There is no fundamental change in the territory of the Republic. The report covered each article well. Much of this bill, of course, is reduced from 2011 and 2013. I mean, I can't go over it in detail, including... In terms of the administrative position of the state prosecutors, priorities of elections, and so on. These are ideas that all come up in the proposals of a government body. In view of the fact that half of my time, I will move on to the regulations that are expected in the bill to be added to the constitution. I don't need to be traced back to the Constitution, but, of course, it's from that time, in the middle of the 19th century, when a relatively recent industrial revolution was under way. Today, as we face the consequences of the industrial revolution, climate threat, and other threats to life on earth, its diversity, and its wholesome environment, it is long time to adopt the constitution of laws on nature and environmental protection, as other nations have done over the last few decades. An article with the bill contains an excellent coverage of the environmental regulations contained in Norway, Sweden, and Finland's Constitutions. As discerning readers will see, much of this law is reduced from those requirements. The article in the Norwegian Constitution defines the right of humans for a wholesome environment as well as the use of natural resources on a universal long - term basis. This is exactly what is stated here in the terms in which the precautionary and long term objectives of sustainable development are discussed. The Swedish Constitution considers that governments must promote sustainable development that will lead to environmental benefits for the present and future generations. It is of interest to note that the directive is not in the rights of the law but in the section dealing with the foundations of the state, while the Norwegian constitution is the law in the Human Rights section because it is based on the right to wholesome the environment and it is part of the right to promote natural and environmental protection. The Finnish constitution contains three factors, i.e. The responsibility for nature and environmental management, the obligation of the competent authorities to ensure a healthy environment and then to participate. This article is in the Human Rights section. It includes the right to wholesome environments of everyone's duty to contribute to the protection of the environment, which is the same link as seen in the French constitution and is part of the arrangement laid down here, where the right to wholesome environment and also to all of us to contribute to the protection of nature and environment. Our constitution has been silent on this case party, so it is long time for this to be discussed in a constitution. This set ensures that a certain baseline value depends on environmental and natural protection is reflected in law and justice. It will be a guide to the legislature and to the government, as well as to the public and to the courts. It may be noted that in the 2019 Premier Association Institute for Social Science, Iceland, 84% of the respondents were more or very much needed to improve the laws on environmental protection in the Constitution. The directive contains several important principles, starts with a declaration that Iceland's natural nature is the basis of life in the country and nature is the prerequisite in the country, but, as a report says, it also has value in itself and that it also deserves recognition. As in the Finnish and French Constitution, the responsibility for the protection of nature and environment is common, that protection should be based on a precautionary and long-term basis for sustainable development and should help maintain the biodiversity of nature and sustainability. In other words, nature should enjoy the doubt, and we should return the environment to future generations in a condition that is not inferior than when we accepted it. It is then the Lawgiver's responsibility to expand the appointment of parties on the basis of this collective responsibility. The right to wholesome environment involves maintaining the natural processes that build the earth in climate and atmosphere, biodiversity and water access. A healthy environment is essential for a person's ability to live healthy lives and enjoy other human rights. The directive places the obligation to the government that the environmental quality of the country is not a short or long term threat. Then shall the law command the right to pass freely through the land, that all may enjoy the nature of the land. This is certainly a subject that we have discussed in this hall in recent years. The Universal Court there appears at the foot of the Grey River and the Book of John. He has been in nature protection since 1956, and of course, it would be very important that he receive such a government - directed position. However, the Lawgiver is committed to further exporting the public rights, which should take into account the rightful interests of landowners. It is finally suggested that the public's right to inform about the environment and the impact of its implementation and to participate in the preparation of environmental decisions that affect the environment should be implemented. These rights are already recognized in the general legislation and based on the Ásarús Convention. In fact, there is a special study or study that would have to be conducted, how many of the suggestions here have often been considered in connection with a constitution have been used since then into the general law. I could mention some of these suggestions that I know even. From previous jobs as Minister of Education, it went on to form academic freedom into law on a university that hadn't been under the law, just because of a discussion of administrative changes. I'm just going to remind you of the work done by the Institute of Law, which points out that the law on the rights of all to wholesome environments is more clear in the current bill than in the 2016 bill. It might also be noted that this is not a law that guarantees the public access to neutral judges. Of course, there is something that we discussed at the scene of the presidents and the representatives of the classes. It has not been able to access all the foreign constitutions that I covered earlier, and in some way it was decided to go the way it has been going, i.e. how to talk about effects on decisions relating to your own environment. I remind you again of the Finnish constitution in that context. But it's only natural for us to discuss this because the conclusion is not self - sufficient, even if it is being made up here to suggest it. A respectable president. The 18th and 19th centuries's constitutions did not deal with resources, but the debate on resource resources is not new. About a century ago, there was a great conflict in possession of water and production rights, and in recent decades the control of the fishing resource has been a major issue of Icelandic politics. In this context, there have been ideas about how the Constitution should be used for decades. In effect, possession of natural resources was being discussed at the Allied Parliament of the Republic. There have been fundamental questions. It was primarily about the possession of the nation and thus how it would benefit the nation from resources. Other viewpoints have developed in modern times due to increased environmental and natural protection on how resources will be used sustainablely. The promise of resource restrictions has been made to enter a number of treaties, but it has never been agreed on in the General Assembly. From then on, there were more politicians at the left center who proposed such laws, including Einar Olgeirsson 1963, with a suggestion that the possession of foreigners of real estate and natural resources and Ragnar Arnaldur and others with the bill that certain resources were to be specified in national property. These suggestions, however, were not a personal matter to the left - handed politicians. Gunnar Thoroddsens's bill in 1983 suggested that natural resources and resources be national property. In 1994, Oddsson's late prime minister, Odddsson, gave a bill that in a constitution a provision for the use of the sea's resources to be shared with the nation, under the rule of the administration of government. None of these regulations were resolved. The richest committee led by Jóhannes Nordalur's office gave these proposals in 2000, which have continued to be among the indicators of what has been yet to occur and therefore not to occur, unfortunately, listed in an exhaustive way in such a short period of time. The provision presented here involves a suggestion to put into the constitution of key principles for common resources. It is determined that resources in the natural world of Iceland belong to the Icelandic nation. It refers to all resources independent of property. Such provisions highlight a strong connection between the Icelanders and the resources of the country, regardless of which is legal, as the right of property is human work. We own our resources together in a profound sense, cutting deeper than property that allows for purchase and sale. This also means that if you have a resource in a unique sense, you must not do anything with it. The property is a responsibility, and the resources are to be used in a sustainable way to benefit the entire population, as clearly stated in the proposal. This is where the thought of the sustainable uses not found in the resource guidelines of previous ages is expressed. For some resources, nobody can claim them, and this really applies to our main resources, such as the fishing grounds, the central highlands, and the water spills that flow there. These resources are described as national property, which means they will never be privateized. The government can always take these resources to heart, no matter how long they have been used by private agents, and none other than the state can take them under the nation's control. This is a very important step that draws a certain line into the sand, setting clear limits on how far the private property rights can reach. The government's vote to give private users the opportunity to access national resources should be based on the motion given by law and the equality and transparency should be taken into account. The provision of this arrangement is clear and in detail that such an intervention must not be a permanent arrangement, which means that it must either be temporary or repetitive. In this regard, it is not relevant that innovation is introduced before the proposals of this bill become valid. Thus, it is taken out of the question that the Council and the Government can change the arrangement and bring in a fishing rights if they want to do so. Of course, it must be done objectively and on appropriate notice, as is true of all administrations and the treatment of official authority affecting the rights and duties of the citizens. Finally, a tax price must be paid for use in terms of profit as further as it will be applied in the general law. This provision is considered in the Law Department's report. It is of interest to read part of the outcome phase, as while the prime products presented at the Council since 2011 will differ in their definition of national property, they will all agree that no one can obtain national property or rights associated with them for possession or permanent use. As a result, even that national resources must be temporary or divulgeable. In terms of time binding, the regulations of the bill take place beyond 2011 to 2013, as they separate that provisional documents should be provided for some moderate time at the same time. But the principle that this will not be provided permanently is clear in this suggestion, as is true of all the earlier suggestions. The regulations of the bill 2011 specifically speak of the total cost for the use of national property, which is now a different way here. The Lawgiver is obliged to issue a payout for use as a means of profit. It is new to speak specifically of profit vision, but it answers certain questions that have raised questions about how to define currency and whether it is always entitled to form in the case of social management. Let's just take the heating and water system as an example, which I now hope many of us would like to be involved in community business rather than marketing where the price for a full price must be the price found on the market. With this discussion including turned this proposal into what was called a natural fee to propose a greater part of the Commission and monitoring committee which has now been submitted to the General Assembly of various members of the Parliament. But the definition of normal currency has also proved to be a challenge. It must, of course, be viewed as the nature of the resources and how it is used. I believe the usefulness of a profit is a very important addition to this proposal as it ensures that resources can be used in a social way. Even this would have been true in previous legal requirements, since there is the highest price available to resources. We have to wonder, when we discuss such a high political level of resources, whether we want a constitution to include such political goals, that it should aim for a full currency for every resource, or whether we want the legislator to take it when it is passed on every resource so that the mood will be revealed at any given time. I say yes to the way this is meant because I don't think it's going to be settled permanently in a constitution each exact price should be for resource use. I think it's a political issue, and I think that there are some viewpoints that can come in when we discuss fish or water or what it is, what we want these resources to be new and whether we want them to be used at the free market or to be used in a social way. And I have to say that I thought that such discussions would deserve more time here in the Generals' sales, exactly this high political debate that I think has been lost in the discussions of resource regulations, which have primarily been about sea fishing and fishing systems, and not other resources that we have been assigned to take care of here, both for the nation and for nature. I wish we could take that up on this objective basis, because we won't and I don't think there will be any landings in putting the special rules on the fishing system into a constitution, although some may want to. I also wish in the light of a discussion of speech that members of the council do not make me or others the view that they are working for a particular business, as I have sometimes heard, but that we discuss these very material things. A respectable president. As I came to the beginning of my talk, the new approach - Forgive me, I forget one very important law. Yet, it is the law that most people have claimed to be able to follow and support. It is a law for Icelandic languages and sign language in a constitution. It is not based on legal proposals, for this was not discussed in them. However, the majority of the management and monitoring committees decided to include the Icelandic language directives in their proposals for a change in constitution. The presidents'discussions introduced the idea that it was best to speak about Icelandic Sign Language as well. I now apologize to members of Congress that the bill that was distributed here was not distributed in the correct form. There were two printings. I apologize to Congress and explain what it is, according to the verb "probably needed, " which was originally distributed in the bill. In June 2020, at our meeting of presidents and representatives of the classes, a special review of this provision was made in which the Deaf's communication center made significant comments in the constitution of the verb "to be used " Since it would indicate that sign language was an emergency. So it was different. I'm sorry that this has been inside, but you know what it's like when 15 documents are in progress, that can be a mistake, and I apologize for that. I come to the other error now, since I have begun to discuss the updrafts. There was also a change, a change in my attention not being drawn, which was done in a seminar at the council, and became an expression of national rights that would be presented to a president of the Council of State. It was in the bill, as we returned that the contracts look at an ◯ change in land law, but they changed here: making changes in the law of the land. It was a mistake, too, and it explains the print. That's why. Senators with the clear motive. A respectable president. As I came to the beginning of my talk, the new approach to the constitution changes, including in new ways of the public council that I came to at the beginning of my case and described my hopes that more of such activities could be done in a national policy situation. Iceland's Social Science Institute cared for the oversight of a reasoning survey that took place in the summer of 2019, followed by a reasoned meeting invited by subjects to attend on November 9, 2019. There were 233 delegates sitting and sitting all weekend, discussing specific chapters in the current constitution, benefits and defects, and possible changes. Methodology, including. has been developed by Professor James Fishkin at Fishkin University, in a vision that informed conversation by the public and experts leads to successful decision making. During the meeting, the participants sat together in small groups and discussed the subject very organized under the guidance of a discussion manager. They had access to information on different viewpoints and opportunities to ask experts. At the end of the meeting, a second screening for participants was conducted, followed by how the support of various statements grew as the meeting went forward or decreased. This methodology also sheds light on how informed discussion and conversation with experts affect people's view of government changes. The final report on the implementation of the project can be found on the social science agency, while it is also explained in the bill itself how its individual suggestions harmonize with the results of the report. I felt this example of methodology that we could apply to a much greater degree when it comes to applying the public to participate. To vote for suggestions that you have not had a chance to discuss in particular in many places is a different kind of methodology. Then I am witnessing to make only a national witness that can certainly be very good to answer specific questions. But this methodology is about really being able to have an active conversation. We've seen this new in many parts of Europe. We have also seen such related methodology elsewhere, and since I mentioned Ireland earlier, the Irish have been very able to use public schemes to solve complex issues. I would like to mention, for instance, a civil council that was held there as delicate as a pregnancy crisis that resulted in significant changes in these matters. This is what I think I'm supposed to be. Here's two leaflets. I like to tell you about it. It is the work of the Law Institute that I have referred to, but there are differing elements and made in a way that compares the regulations, disunited, and then put together in the final chapters. I'll just mention that one of the interesting things I've found is the fact that the resourceprogramme of the bills is a list of national resources. This was done in the proposals of the administration board at the time, but it was modified by a greater part of the management and monitoring committee by adding resources, while the addition of the list could also be made that the General Assembly could describe additional resources if the list could not be exhaustive. This is one of the things I've done at times as a publicity material here. I believe that without a list of items, where resources are defined open, much normal in a constitution, but such a long list. The other day, I asked a senator, and we didn't finish it, it was all discussed in this few minutes: Is it really true that you're throwing the proposal? Is this not just one of the things we need to discuss? Do we feel that this list is supposed to be, and do we feel that the constitution should include a list that could change the list? I think it's a far more complicated way than it is now, where there's simply a tight wording as space of resources, some of which may be unpredictable. I've wondered that here we have discussed what a resource is in soil and aquifers in Iceland for the reduction of carbon dioxide. In a sense, as 2012 puts it, you may be able to fit in as minerals in foreign lands. But we don't want to keep this open if this is, for example. Not in a nation? That's my conviction. Law agencies pass through these principles one by one, one by one, and I hope it will be simple work already. The management and monitoring committee for the material discussion to compare, evaluate the abnormalities, evaluate what is different from what is similar. Here I see the chairman of the Commission and Control Committee has an open legal report, which is very well recommended by this report. The rest of the ensuing document is the formation of members of the Controversies and Pirata from the head of the party. Toward the end of that work, it was stated that those who wished them to share their views in this way, but all the presidents and representatives of the classes participated in the work at 25 meetings and between meetings. The union and the Piranians returned this account and it was presented here in a document. The treatment at the Council will then reveal where lines lie in the Council on the proposals of the bill. I mentioned in the beginning that I thought that there could be a material solidarity on a number of subjects on the bill. I think that's why, as I mentioned, it's not from the left-green tool office, it's based on dialogue, it's based on consultation, it's based on the fact that different views have been taken into account. I realize that this is not a complete agreement, but I expect it to be quite consistent on several matters. So I have high hopes for the Senate coverage and hopefully for all the people of the country, about these steps that I consider all of them to be greatly progressive from the current state of the world. A respectable president. Now there are two minutes left of my time, so I'm not going to start a new discussion at this point. There is plenty of time for policy and for the work being done here, and it is well planned. So I would like to reiterate that I truly hope that this Council will complete certain changes in the constitution, which hopefully will be confirmed by a new council. I feel that we owe the community to complete such changes. I learn from the experiences of the past few years, where I sat in the government that took the initiative to set up a government body of directors in its time that it is important to do this in stages. I believe that this is how we will be successful in these changes. My experience of a good conversation with presidents and representatives gives me the hope that we will be able to complete these changes, and I think that would be a great benefit to us. A respectable president. I'm not gonna have any more words about this time. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The management board following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u41	A respectable president. It doesn't have to be surprising that I'm going to focus on the huge resource policy. I will consider another aspect of my speech. V.E.G. The prime minister and director of the left green, we're here talking about councilmen's affairs, saying in his speech, and stressing that was important to me that it included the need to be temporary or indistinguishable. This is also shown in a paper with the bill. But as we know, which has been here a long time, we don't have much weight on the report. It is the law itself that matters. That's key. I ask: If this is the meaning, if it's the real translation - and there's a huge amount of interest in what the Prime Minister's answer will be below, and if the council has got a head of space and a half of the clearance right here at the council to change this. Do the prime minister sees to it that the council takes exactly this into the law itself and challenges the real will shown in the report and wants prime minister to accept any permission that is temporary or stated? Is a prime minister lent the word "temporaneously" to the law?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u42	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. The law is very clear to me. The principle clearly states: ▪ Resources and national rights - and I call attention to the fact that land rights have not always been supported, this is a very important point when we read the story - ◯ which are not on exclusive property. No one can get this quality or rights related to them for a possession or permanent use. What is the meaning of this lasting use? Yes, that's clear on the report. That means they're temporary, now, or reversible, or even narrate, as I was considering in my speech. This is my clear understanding of this law. Does the council have the authority to change? asks why. paritaprevir It's a Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. The matter is now followed by this discussion for Congress treatment, and I have the expectations that the Commission and the Commission will review it in a very serious way, because I believe that I often believe that therapy by Congress can lead to a better case. But to me personally, this text is totally clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u43	A respectable president. Then I want a clear answer from the highest. Prime Minister, that it tells exactly what this resource command will do. Are we talking about the fact that the national property will be active or that it will just be inactive, and there is no change from Article 1? Fishing, now in effect? What does that mean? If that is that understanding, would it not be best to press it firmly into the law itself and insert a time tie or details from the source? This is of utmost importance, and it depends on me whether we can take this step, because I agree with the highest level. Similarly, the prime minister and the procurator of the Independence Party is expected to take these steps in steps, but they must be real. Then it should not be formalistic or verbal. If the time is really involved, the prime minister should include it in the arrangement. That is why I ask: What difference does this proposal make to the prime minister from the present arrangement? Does she change anything? Do we contribute to some extent to the national property? Or is this not a change?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u44	What difference does this law make? asks why. Senator. Of course, it changes the legal environment of the resource resource that the resource's national property is being renovated in a constitution. Of course, that changes it. There are more resources than fish in the sea, and even if this is in 1. we're dealing with more resources here first, and second, the law will be changed in a way other than a constitution. What difference does it make? I would say that the provision of national resources is extremely significant. It affects how we approach our assignment as well as our payment. It's not been years since. In 2012, when discussing fishing fees that were then under discussion, a senator addressed resource expenditures. The discussion has changed a lot since then. However, this reminds us that the law will be easily changed, rather than a constitution. [[The president calls.]] Here we are setting an enormously important foundation for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u45	Mr. President. Only a continuation of the conflicting and temporary differences. Suppose an old friend of mine had at times been allowed to stay in a room where I have, at such times. One day he comes to me in trouble, needs a place to stay, and I say he can rent my room until I have to use it for another. It's getting a lot longer now. He paints, he parks Parket, he buys furniture. Then it happens that he's going to go up to the room for the weekend and a weekend for a much bigger amount than I'm charging him. As time passes, I find it more and more difficult to tell him about the rent and the legitimate expectations of longer stay are built up with him along the way. Now I simply want to ask the highest. Whether afterward it would have been more prudent for both of us, I concluded with him a temporary contract with a market rent and an acceptable notice.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u46	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I expect the story of a good tenant who might be described as an illustration should refer to a principle of resource. Then I'd like to say it to what. Einarsson The nature of this law means that mine knows that there are many resources. Right away. A senator decides to rent a room, although not fully anticipated, he may do so for a shorter time. Then other resource uses may require a different kind of view. Take, for example, a land of rent where there is trouble. A senator builds a summer house, but such a time is often 99 years old. This may be a normal time for land use. Since some other resource use, say energy, some 35 years have been said. So, when we're talking about different lengths, I think we have to look at the different kinds of resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u47	Mr. President. Let's not go out like a cat around a hot grin. The prime minister stopped earlier and spoke of us being caught in fishing for the resource. But that is exactly why time is not fixed. One industry is being spared more than another. How much better it would be to come to an agreement that everything would fit in! It is good to see that this statement clearly speaks of a price being taken advantage of as a means of profit. That's very good. But because there is just so much talk about payment for a profit that has been separated from this social innovation, is it not also a perennial reason to insist that the currency should be so that the owner receives the maximum price for it?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u48	Mr. President. I am pleased that the director of the United States will agree with my viewpoint on social use, since they are not meant to be made up of the originals that have been discussed by the Council of Control and Control and Control Committee. There's a defect on those initials as far as I'm concerned. Hv. A senator also talks about marketing, and we come back to what I mentioned earlier. I don't like it when someone says they're protecting one industry more than another. It makes me feel that right or wrong, that I am being made up of opinions. And it's not like that. It is my firm opinion that this law should cover all the resources and that the legislator is responsible for taking sides in terms of efficiency. It is very important that the law should do so. But I also believe that it is the subject of each session to take such a conversation, since it is different whether we speak of land, fish, or energy.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u49	A respectable president. I am disappointed at the way this work has been done. I'm going to go over it a little better in a talk afterwards and not tired at the top. The prime minister's more with it. But I especially miss that we are not, at least no more than the senators who are interested in it, discussing the national law I love most about. The prime minister has decided to let go quickly. I get into it in my speech below. The reason for doing so is the highest reason. A minister will likely do this because she considers too much work to be done in order to include it in the bill; the viewpoint I disagree with but understand. What I find harder to understand, then, is why the resource directive is presented in this obvious, great, decades - long conflict, when the consequences of the sentence of this law are not even clearly explained by the current system. Of course, we are eager to talk about the fishing resource because it is the root cause of the conflict, which causes this law to get so involved with the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u50	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying I understand why too. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, who, of course, has had an intense and focused interest in democracy development and including national fees. Just so I explained my point, I haven't thrown that law into the ocean yet, but I didn't think it was mature enough, just from the different viewpoints that I discussed in my front story talk. But I believe we'll have to deal with it. Another thing I'd like to mention, and believe that there are full opportunities that we could bring in by general legislation, is a national principle that we've discussed, i.e. that a certain part of the country - time is a little out of line - you may wish for a subject to be scheduled. For resource reasons, I believe this isn't just about fishing the resource. I think that was part of the big debate here. I can't stress just how much we have in other kinds of resources. I think it's important that this law also embraces them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u51	It's late because the president was sleeping on the watch.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u52	A respectable president. The suggestions given here, as well as those from a similar source in the Constitutions, have been repeated on the meetings we have conducted, are regulations that assume that it covers all resources. The suggestion is, not to set a resource policy that applies only to the fishing resource, but to regulations that include the fishing of the resource. It's about us not just forgetting about her and pretending that she's something we have to keep out of the discussion. The modern use of fish resources is the most controversial resource use in the country and has been since the beginning of the greeting system, much less when expeditation was authorized and all that was involved. I just want to be clear. Then I'll call attention to two adjustments, one from Exhibit and the other from Piranha, the Conspiracy and the others, allowing the council to vote on other exports. They have to do with both resources. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking for an attitude of the highest order. Minister to them for their change and for the discussion of the council on them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u53	Mr. President. This resource policy also includes the fishing resource, as it were, of mine. Right away. A senator says that it's the most controversial resource we have, and I'll just be the first to say, "Yes, the fishing system has been disputed. But that's not the only element of resource use in Iceland. I must remind you of energy efficiency, which is one of the fundamental issues that have repeatedly split the nation, thus reminding me that it is extremely important that these resources are being proposed to be used in a sustainable way and that the measures of environmental ratios into a constitution are extremely important. They have been even more controversial. That is what I am saying, that this law must cover all this thought. That's why I make a comment to a list of points, and that's why I'm saying that we're dealing with paybacks from what I've been primarily talking about the fishing system, not other resources. I know there's a lot of disagreement here, and that's why I suggest this resource policy, not the rules of changing things. A senator asked about.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u54	Mr. President. I wanted to thank you at the very beginning. Prime Minister for speaking this matter. I think it's useful and important that we get a discussion on the subject rather than a prehistoric subject and do not repeat some of the 1,912 - year - old debates, as we've often been in on the Constitution issues. I wanted to ask the highest. Prime Minister on the Presidential Phase or II. section of the Constitution for the President and the highest hand of the European Commission. Then perhaps I would like to say first that I have some comments on that chapter and his implementation, to the point that I believe it is changing things that are not necessary to change but other things that may be indicated as a basis for a review. One thing I really wanted to ask about at a limited time is the method of being elected, how it comes about. She was not sent to the Venetian Committee but later comes in. I wondered, " Where is this idea taken from the world? '
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u55	Mr. President. Hv. A senator asks: "From where in the world has this idea come? You're right, she wasn't in the consultation suit. On the other hand, we received comments and, of course, put the basics in a crossword to get comments. It was noted that we had not taken sides in the motions that the elected president had the majority of support. Then I took a special look at the results of the poll, as mentioned earlier in my speech, and in the conversation that took place there, this methodology became increasingly supportive. And from where in the world? This is widely known. I mentioned here that the president of Ireland is elected by arranged vote. It has been claimed that this is not the case with a relatively powerful president, but I believe they are far more relevant to the two - round system. But I'll find out better from here on out.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u56	Mr. President. Yes, I know the example from Ireland, and I know that there has once been an election system in this illustration in this country, in the famous Constitution election, which, of course, was one of the most failed elections ever made in this country in the entire republic account. But there is another story, and of course it is not relevant. But I just wanted to say that certain changes that are being made in the Presidency and elections and elections and other measures somehow suggest that there is some idea that the Presidency is a real government and that some means there is a limit to the time of power. So the majority of the terms and the like have to be guaranteed. At the same time, we have a provision, both in the current constitution and in the same arrangement, where it is clearly stated that the president is both irresponsible by the conduct of his administrations and that he will have a minister carry out his authority. So I find this to be a contradiction to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u57	Mr. President. I just learned in my speech that there is no increased authority, and it is only natural that such views arise as a matter of course. A senator crossed. I'd like to mention, though, that if we're looking into history and the election as it has evolved here in the country, then the candidates have grown a great deal in the election that makes votes spread. Clearly, the current arrangement does not guarantee that the president is elected with a greater proportion of votes except for the minimum rate of elections. I remind them of the opinion of the Joint Commission of the Generals 1944, where it is quoted as stating that the nation was thus able to dissuade Presidential matters that votes should be excessively distributed. I would believe, however, that the experiences of recent years show that there has been an increase in the number of volunteers. True, it is also a suggestion to increase the number of references, which I imagine is a change that no one would agree with, but I shall not say. This is an attempt to ensure that the president is more involved without any proposed changes in his authority.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u58	A respectable president. I just have to say here to begin with that I'm very disappointed that we will be in this situation, that the work we've worked in, readily and content, is now here on the Senate Committee, the matter of the prime minister. Something else I wanted to ask the highest. Prime Minister on: Is that really so? The prime minister here is saying that it is normal for the council to decide on which of the resource costs to be rather than the Constitution itself, our basic laws? It is not as if we were setting some general rule. Well, we're talking about the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland. I reiterate it before I read the fistula here in my next answer: Is this really what it is? Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u59	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Inga Sæland Land for her answer, and this is what we've talked about many times. I know there's a point of view about total currency here, no matter what it's all about. I know this is a view of something called a normal price, regardless of the kind of innovation. I've always stressed it, as I think it would. A senator knows that there should be special provision for profit. And, yes, I think it is reasonable for the Constitution to give the legislator the clear instructions that he should take his stand on resource charge. This may be a majority wish to set resources for some kind of auction. Then it's the lawgiver's will, and I don't think the Constitution can recommend it. It may be that there will be more of a share for raising the cost of hunting. I don't think that's exactly what the Constitution can say. However, it must be taken into account by the lawgiver in terms of profit use.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u60	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answer, and he intends to refer to the highest authority. A minister said before becoming prime minister, that we should take the resource tax that she could afford to pay. What I'm wondering now is a simple rule of law in a constitution, and now it comes to this question: Can the highest. ▪ Prime Minister gives an answer to what it really means to talk about a reasonable, natural price that each government can decide for itself? Is that not simply wishful thinking? Does it not involve a determination that has nothing to do with ensuring full prices for access, not just that the marine resource we all know lies here, we all know, no matter what they say, but that all the other resources we have together?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u61	Mr. President. A change may now be proposed to require a full fee, a market fee, for resources. It's not being discussed at the council right now. It is a suggestion of a so - called normal price that the nature of a case is determined by the council. Hv. A senator may prefer to make a change in the amount of charge that would be some kind of market fee. But I'm here pointing out how difficult it has been for us to control the definition of a constitution. It's because no matter what anybody says, it's a resource problem for different kinds of resources and not just for the fish in the sea. This may seem natural to us, since we represent different categories and viewpoints. But I am stressing that we are taking this variety into account.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u62	Mr. President. I only scratch my head on the resource problem because I don't fully understand what is being done by saying in the constitution that there is a legal fee for something to be paid. I thought that was the basis of what we do every day. We take note of the box around everything in the country, including the expected payment for resources. Here the debate has taken into account that this is not only a matter of fishing the resource but also of the resources that are involved in the community business. Yes, but is it? The two-party. has been referred specifically to as a means of making money. We're not talking about heat plants running on social grounds, we're not talking about public quality that we don't want to charge to the top, but we're talking about the resources that big companies can make money money money if it's not a fair price. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u63	Mr. President. This is one of the issues discussed that were very detailed at a meeting of a 20133/42016 committee and that are discussed here in the Law Institute's work as a guide in this bill, which I would have considered to be a cause of joy. What has been defined as a matter of currency, as is done here well, is that they have not fully agreed on their interpretation of previous bills. It is possible, however, that differences in objective viewpoints may be used when discussing resource expenditure. This is not merely about the fact that there are not all benefits, since it is not, and should not be necessarily, but it may also be a very varied viewpoint on different kinds of innovations.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u64	Mr. President. Just because we're discussing the resources that are used for profit, they think the total amount of money should be and that it is temporary. I'd just like to discuss the changing principle as high as possible. A minister chooses not to volunteer. In view of her words in a background discussion that we know what it is like when we have 15 documents in progress with critical changes, there is a mistake, and then the project is a big one, is it not an example of why we need adjustments that allow for a change in constitution without the breach of Congress? This would have been possible, not with 15 documents in the air, but perhaps one at a time, taking the resource directive for one year, agreeing to it, sending it to national pay, finishing that package, going to the next job, rather than standing here just for a huge package that has not been open to discuss all the factors, but going before the closed doors of an elite group for almost four years. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is that the foundation we want a new constitution to stand on?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u65	Mr. President. First of all, I'd like to say, because of what. A senator is concerned that the election is short: There is enough time to discuss this matter here at the council and a long way to the election. It's primarily about doing the job. Hv. A senator makes a comment about the discovery of the prefects by closed doors. All right. It is the work environment, which we have published and publicly published according to what our work has earned. But I'd just like to quote again in a fine summary of the Law Institute, which quoted when a client gave a review of a proposal of a management body for a full price in which a board of laws made it a suggestion that if a possession is taken on the basis of a law for the sake of public interest, it would be in terms of improvement. They simply couldn't apply to any resource, even if it could apply in some cases. [[The president calls.]] This discussion is very important. That is why I believe that the most natural way is by which the Lawgiver is given a role clearly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u66	V.E.G. President. I believe that the way here is going on trying to achieve a change in constitution is a warning example that can lead to a long future constitution as a victim of every day's political debates. The proposed changes in the Constitution of Congress to increase the likelihood that there will be a future change in constitution and entering this room, where there is often a conflict of controversial issues, possible changes in the constitution and the future as well as the election campaign. If we run away from the goal that I heard was the highest. Prime Ministers consider it somewhat old - fashioned, with the greatest solidarity in the Constitution not only to be damaging the constitution by making it a political debate but also to reduce the value of a constitution that has to be had and has been conceived as, i.e. A document that is more and less acceptable to all and can unite in being a principle of society. I am content with my comments on the method for now, but I expect to discuss it only later in this discussion. Now I'm going to move on to some special suggestions for new articles, but especially two of them. I'm very happy with it, and I just think it's a positive thing to be added to the Constitution of Icelandic languages and Icelandic Sign Languages, and I don't have to spend much time talking about it. In the process, I make a comment that the government is in my opinion already breaking this law before it has been proposed to destroy an Icelandic man - made tradition. But that is a discussion for later, and hopefully there is no evidence of what is to be done with the seriousness to be placed in a constitution, its regulations, articles, and adjustments. As for the section of the President, as well as articles on the role of the president, I would also like to wait for most of the discussion. This is a point that was relatively neglected or small in the preparatory work and as a result. paritaprevir In addition, the annual Birgir of a Ármannsson pointed to new things that actually appeared relatively unexpected. This chapter contains things that may seem minute at first sight, but they can have very significant effects. However, that discussion waits for later, for now I have to use my time to discuss what is called a law on nature protection and natural resources. These regulations indicate that many phrases sound more like the aims of a political class than the clear articles in a constitution, the interpretation of clear principles of how things should go before them, what is lawful and what is not, where right and duty are. However, I was prepared to accept some of these excerpts for my efforts to work together in this regard for the work that has been done for many years. But this would have been dependent on a clear sense of urgency, the real effect of such beautiful phrases on the legal environment and the national government. But there is no such thing as at least Not good enough at all. As a result, both of these articles I learned about here, nature protection and the resource sector are in order to increase uncertainty rather than reduce it. However, the role of the Constitution must be to clarify the principles and to reduce uncertainty regarding other legislation and government. However, here we are putting in unconcerned phrases that are far too uncertain about what real influence will have. Consider the suggestion to 79 C.E. , but it begins with this: ▪ The natural nature of Iceland is the basis of life in the country. These are relatively obvious truths and may not be necessary to state them in a constitution. But all right, it's all right to start an article like this. Next comes the responsibility for protecting nature, and the environment is shared by everyone here, wondering what responsibility it is to put on the public in this country. Of course, there are laws that govern nature, laws and laws. But what new administrative responsibility is being added to the general public in this regard? We may have a little clue about it in the report, but for a more orderly review, I'm going to wait on it, and I'm going to finish tracking myself through the text of this article myself. It should be established that the biodiversity of the environment is maintained and that growth and maintenance are guaranteed. Another beautiful sentence, common sense, which I assume most or anyone can agree with. But what will be the real effect? I'm only coming in after who they could be. Another sentence that follows: ▪ Everyone has the right to wholesome environment. I believe it is difficult to find one who does not believe that everyone should have the right to wholesome environment. But what is the result? Now, before I go to the report below, I take a few examples of the happiness that comes from using these provisions to support the conclusion that greenhouse gases should not be released because it should not affect the climate. Of course, it is a good goal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Where, though, should the line be drawn? All productions of greenhouse gases. Is it really possible, then, to take advantage of this provision? All human activity releases greenhouse gases. But it specifically states, this sentence is specifically associated with the inability to influence climate. This is also associated with the other items that follow. Before I return to the healthy environment, it is said of the public's authority to travel through the country that nature should be well cared for. Another general and practical truth that I believe is that most people learn both at home and at their first class or at school. Nature will be well cared for and the interests of landowners and other rights will be respected. This does not say to respect the rights or rights of a land owner but to respect their interests. In what ways should a person take into consideration the interests of such a person rather than their rights? This opens far more widely than is needed. This article concludes with the following words: ◯The right of the public to inform about environmental information and the impact of these activities as well as to participate in the preparation of environmental decisions. The right to information and right to participate in the preparation of decisions affecting the environment. What projects don't affect the environment, Mr. President? This is to suggest that all environmental activities should be evaluated in general, at least In Iceland, but as with the context of the Ásar Convention, it is concluded that wherever they live, there is more or less of them at least In Europe, the right to evaluate all the projects carried out in Iceland. Of course, we are familiar with examples in which foreign pressure groups have collected signatures and encouraged their people online and elsewhere to send talks to Iceland in the power of this right to influence performance here. This puts such a thing in the constitution and outlets. There is also much unclear about the term "skillful development " mentioned in this article. I suppose it is true, Mr. President, that I read that sentence all: the responsibility for the protection of nature and environment rests on all of them together, and the protection will be based on a precautionary and long-term basis for sustainable development. This term came up with some discussions in the preparatory work, or in the committee agreement, and was adjusted after the wording as it was, that it should happen in a sustainable way, if I remember correctly, give very vague instructions. This slightly altered expression, that this is to be done by sustainable development, certainly does not prevent ideas, other things. Sustainableness is not possible in all human endeavors, for example, for mining, mining is not a sustainable nature. However, by using sustainability to guide them, you may want to say that where sustainability can be used, it should be appropriate. But then later we will see what is behind the term "sustaining evolution. " It is, in effect, the idea of initiating certain ideologies into the Constitution. It defines sustainable development as a form of ideologies that will be legalized in Iceland, and as a result, the effect will be extremely vague and will not be made a major attempt to explain the effects in the real world. Then motion to 80 st. The constitution. It begins: The natural resources of Iceland are part of the Icelandic nation. It should be used in a sustainable way to benefit the entire population. This word again, except now clearly stated, shall be used in a sustainable manner. Again, you wonder, " How can it be possible to use a mine in a sustainable way? ' So says: The EU has control and management of the treatment and use of the resources. Of course, the major question in this provision, which has been discussed to a large extent in the decades of long discussion of the marine waters and the fishing system, is how natural resources are defined. V.E.G. Prior to this, the prime minister said that she wanted that definition open, but at the same time, more and more items could be added to the legislation, defined as natural resources. It actually comes with a list of certain kinds of resources. But resources are a very diverse phenomenon. Berryyng is a resource, berry mollusk is the resource of what owns the country. Is it possible, then, to promote the law of beating? In fact, the discussion in the Presidency group reached a point in conversation with experts that it was rolled up, without a clear answer being given, e.g. The wind, even the sun, the sunshine, would be a resource. Some did not trust who would say no. It was then noted that the state could have a governmental right to take away the resource costs from the use of the air. As long as this is as vague as it is and characterized by these beautiful phrases rather than by clear rules, it is impossible to determine where this will take place. This, however, is not inconceivable; rather, it indicates that it will be made up of a governmental right to deprive humans of property. The right to own was now considered one of the main sources of government, not just in Iceland, but elsewhere. But this is a constitution of the possibility to deprive humans of property. Now it's time to say that I'm not talking about fishing or fishing the resource, but it seems that many members of the council are likely going in that direction when this law is discussed. I'm talking about the things that are now hearing under the natural rights, that are being opened for putting those things under this definition allowing them to take away the rights. Finally, this article states: The use of natural resources and national rights owned or owned by the Icelandic state shall be based on law, and should be balanced and transparent. According to the law, remuneration for a profit is required. Then you ask again, " How extensive should it be, how many are now going to pay for something they actually had before, or had at least The right to go? It is interesting, then, to be tempted to put this into contact with the report immediately, for it cannot be interpreted as having the right to form an obligation to do so. The government would charge farmers if their sheep crossed any boundaries into the country. So these are regulations that complicate rights and responsibilities rather than explain rights and responsibilities as an constitution is to be done. Then, to the report and back to the nature protection arrangement. Regarding nature's values, it states: The fundamental principle that nature also holds its own value is the economic and social value of existing and future generations. What does it mean, Mr. President, that nature has its own value? Of course, it has value for us humans, for animals living in nature, it certainly has economic values, as mentioned here, but also values of such factors as this. A beautiful environment. What does it mean, though, that nature has its own value? This is clear, but it cannot be compared with the evolution that has been discussed in modern politics that man should view nature as being almost a living creature if not a divine being. Of course, nature has a variety of values for us, and it is vital that we treat it properly and protect it. But what does it mean that nature has its own value? Is this just one of those offsets that would identify this work too much? So that the role of the Lawgiver that I once played in the general law of any obligation will be placed on the basis of the principle of responsibility for the environment and nature's protection. Here, we will see a little more clearly the responsibility to give to the people of the land. This is not merely a general recommendation that a person should cultivate his garden in a personal or a figurative way. No, we see that new responsibilities are being put on the public, specific, subjective work, as if to be said, will become clear when the report comes in. It may be noted that the obligation to treat nature properly is, of course, already under law. In considering this concept, sustainable development. It appears to refer to the 1987 Brundtland report. One cannot help but wonder if there is a basis for definition, that a report written by the former Prime Minister Norway some decades ago should be based on the understanding of Iceland's constitution. This explains what is meant by the right to wholesome environment and what I was tempted to mention too soon ago, i.e. The focus on the climate. However, it is also referred to as a form of biodiversity. Where do people draw the line there? Just like most of the things I've traced here, I think there's a general agreement in the way the Icelanders view these matters. But what about once a constitution requires that biodiversity always be preserved? What effect is it having, e.g. About what in Iceland? Now he's become part of nature here, evil healing. So this will reduce efforts to eliminate minor problems, although it may not be realistic, at least -...to keep him out of the way? The danger of such wording in a constitution is that a beautiful but vague phrase is then used to justify something that does not have a basis for it. Hence, a constitution must be based on clear rules and understandable rules. Next thing I'm going to do, I'm going to work on the right to information and make decisions. I think it's right that I start by reading the first part of that section of the report, which says: 3mg. a-a team twenty-two. will be discussed on the right of the public for information on the environment and on the effects of implementation, as well as in the preparation of decisions that affect the environment. These rights are essential for the public to maintain their right to wholesome environment. You see, this is very interesting in the context of the right to wholesome environment. This is a very broad definition and cannot help but include e.g. In connection with what said above as an instrument in climate policy, especially when it is spoken of as a wholesome environment. So this is probably not just Icelanders but people around the world are growing the right to make a decision and to participate in the preparation of projects that can actually release greenhouse gases. The next sentence to follow reads: The rights also have great significance when it comes to the public's responsibility for environmental protection and protection. Then it seems that he should make good use of them, especially in sending talks every time someone plans to perform something. Then, in line with the Árús contract I was able to negotiate earlier, it has already had a significant impact on the country. But now this is being extended and put in a constitution. Therefore, I repeat at the end of the talk, since time is coming from me, the importance of it, especially when a person approaches a constitution in this way and puts in ornaments like such a beautiful phrase, that the expected effect of these phrases is clear. It also serves as a reminder of the importance of achieving as far as the most widely distributed peace in working as the Constitution changes. V.E.G. The prime minister repeatedly referred to a conversation scan or something like that, but I don't quite remember what it is called. A minister stood before or induced his political armies to stand before him. No doubt they worked well, and not all were necessarily political alliances, Mr. President, those who might accept this. But the things that caught my attention on this most important point. A minister at this meeting was that the reliability or importance of it seemed to be based on the results it reached. However, regarding the section of the president, about which I have no time to discuss this talk, there was something else. Then the Venetian Committee seems to present the position of this conversational survey. Why is there a group of five, I think it is, Norrman, Belgium, and Moldovan among others, to control more about how we change the constitution than this conversational survey, which in other respects seems to be a significant reason for the need for change? There's a lot of weird stuff in this, Mr. President. But I hope this discussion is most effective and we avoid the accidents. But the risk is primarily how vague this is and how different the understanding of the effect will be.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u67	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. He discussed the resource problem and came into his speech that he did not like it enough and that there was some solidarity in the thinking among the people, if I understood the senator correctly. This law has now been discussed at Assembly Halls at least Then 1983, in all its forms. The most may have been discussed since 2009 and what. A senator well knows the lead of this discussion, and he had, at least, as I have understood it, a part of pushing it into the lead in the 2009 election, although it may not be possible to argue with the resource directive it was the driving force in it. Nevertheless, the senator began that discussion and was expected to participate in a similar discussion in 2013-2016. As a result, I would like to ask the senator: " What time do you think it is time to take up the resource discussion to the next level, and take over here at the council, if appropriate? Does the senator really feel this way, whether we take the past 2009 or the 1983 30-40 years'discussion, that it is not time to complete this discussion and allow the council to take sides in the matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u68	Mr. President. There's never a reason to go through a case that you've gone so bad at work and took so long. But it is time to make provision, and hopefully you can do so as soon as you can, when there is an understanding of what the law means. The danger of such charismatic speech, as reflected in this and, in fact, others, is that people fully understand the impact of the law and we don't even know what's underneath, what will be classified as natural quality or resource. As a result, the Constitution is made up of the legal right to reimburse the government, even taking possession of property. The problem with this law has been that people have been primarily talking about it from sea to sea. I think that explains how much time it has been able to put together the law, and even the explanation for why it is so vague. It is likely that especially if we approach matters in such a way that we can understand each one in his own way. However, this is not good when it is a constitution that is acceptable to one another and then it is intended to be interpreted in all directions. The answer is: It is proper to take care of it when people know what they are doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u69	Mr. President. Most of the cases are likely to be true when they are understood only when they are not willing to be delivered. But just in the light of history, and in view of the past 123/413 years of age, you would have thought that some understanding of it was beginning to develop, not just in certain individuals, but in the community, what they want in there. It's time to take that material discussion in this room and try to find land first, as the senator enters, to do no better or better in the committees and advice that have been discussing this in the community. A senator has lived in such groups over the years, controlling at least one such committee. You may just have to take that discussion into the council and discuss it and finish it. As a result, if this resource directive is not acceptable, not clear enough, not wide enough, or what description of the choice, what would it take, or what would the senator consider to be effective? Or is such a law just absolutely unnecessary, in the opinion of the senator? Or will the senator, or according to the events of his party on the Board of Directors and Controls Committee, offer such regulations and try to establish a solidarity on the committee? I think we owe it not only to the nation but also to this institution to put us at risk of once trying to resolve such cases from the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u70	Mr. President. Of course, you're right. Even here at the council, a senator may be useful in gaining insight into matters, but in view of the fact that in months or years, eight members of the political parties seem to have not met the common understanding of this law or language, you have had doubts about the common understanding among all 63 members of Congress. That is why I thought that a clearer law would be better off reaching a solidarity in the council. I will admit, however, that I have praised the highest. Prime Minister for Work trying to get men together on this law. I realize that part of this relatively vague wording, or a beautiful expression, so we now use more beautiful words about it, is the result of the Supreme Efforts. Prime Minister to Get Men Together Still, it is absolutely necessary that the understanding of what is meant but in particular that we discern the actual impact on the law and follow-up of valid laws. But all of this is unclear, since this work did not run out. It is impossible to determine with any certainty what will be the real effect of this law, as it appears today.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u71	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech and the cooperation. I want to say three things in this counter, maybe two comments and one question to the question. Senator. First, I cannot agree with that understanding. A senator on the resource policy that it is unclear. I think that this resource problem is good because it's tight. It is much stronger than previous regulations, and it covers the principles of the constitution. Note two: I must make a note of it when it's cool. A senator wishes to call the University of Iceland Social Science, a professor at Stanford University, who I don't personally know, and other scholars at the University of Iceland, my political alliance. I make a note of this presentation because it is the scholars, the people working in the academic environment, and the people who were moved to work on a case I introduced to all presidents and representatives at the beginning of the career, about how we could use the methods of public society. Actually, I don't remember much comment about using these methods, and they didn't revolve around politics. They focused on how we could get people involved in the discussion. And it was only brilliant, totally independent of the political opinions of all these people. Hv. A member of the United States led the 2013Mr.2016 government and conducted a reexamination of constitutions and committees. I still have the order from what? A senator who appointed me to a committee where we discussed the resources of national property, environment and nature protection and the exposition of authority. In time, that law and national law were canceled. Third, I'd like to ask, because of what. A senator now spent most of his time discussing the laws of environmental protection: Was he not at odds with the work being done under his office, his office, in those years, which is actually the foundation of what we are discussing today? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u72	Mr. President. V.E.G. Prime Ministers respond to social sciences at the University of Iceland and some professor in foreign lands. I added earlier that not everyone there was the highest support. Minister. The reason I mentioned this is that, of course, there was a disagreement within the committee on who should lead a particular job, inevitably end up being made aware that their position in the matter is not a conversation when they are political candidates can be involved. This disagreement went so far that it could not be agreed to appoint a special team, as it was at the outset. I don't think there's anything wrong with saying it in this context. This was a significant case in my opinion and led to such a disagreement that a team of experts could not be appointed. However, the highest standard looked for. Ministers to people who have much to do with them, and probably a train, neutral, and good scholars. Regarding the work of the former Constitution committee, I appointed Professor Sigurður Líndalur of that committee. I don't think he'd given up very vague regulations or vague expressions, at least. It was not as if they were in a position to understand what was going on there. Then others would accept and work very well, but the work, like the work the president has done today, is certainly a matter of debate over the resource problem. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u73	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer and would like to catch back the thread on which he concluded, i.e. The amount of work that was done was 2013◯2016. He quoted the fact that Sigurður the Valley of Líndal led the job off the face. Then another agent took over the highest. Páll the son of Þórhallsson, the prime minister, led the work. Hv. A senator spoke so extensively about environmental protection laws that he thought were vague in some way, but still, it is based on the work that I have always considered to have been carried on before. paritaprevir The Sigmurs of Gunnlaugsson Gunougsson. So, I just want to ask you again, did he have a problem with his work, or has he somehow changed his view of environmental and natural protection regulations, and will he make any suggestions for changing such a law? Because I don't believe anything but that. A senator wants to see that in his constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u74	V.E.G. President. It's impossible to get to the top. The prime minister who has discussed this discussion stressed that the contents, the facts, are now so much about who has done what and who has told us what. But all right, I actually answered the highest. Prime Minister at least two if not three ways. The work done in the days of Sigurður Líndalur, and after he finished, no doubt there was a lot of work to be done. There, the resource regulations, such as the highest, continued to be used. A minister mentioned, very similar to what continued in the prehuman group. And what did I say about that law? I told you, I've encouraged the best. Prominently, the prime minister is pleased with her efforts to build on that law. Of course, the freshness of this law depends on the ability to identify its effects. So I came to understand that there was a word of speech and that it might be added to some extra statement as an attempt to bring men together. But the work is not finished until a reasonably good understanding is made up of what will be the real effect on this. As a result, I have not criticized the former constitution committee on account of this arrangement, as I thought it was the highest. The minister suggests, neither has my heart been toward the end of the law; and I have testified, I have commended it most. Minister for trying to keep this together. But it cannot be introduced into a constitution until it is realized how it will be affected.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u75	Mr. President. This ended some blow at the end. It's like the highest. The prime minister mentioned earlier offered classes to submit a book published in a report. The union took advantage of that opportunity, along with the Pirates to make public remarks. Less is involved in a material discussion on articles that are unique. Of course, we will. I'll be here in speeches, commissions, commissions, and finally votes, if the case gets that far. Thus, at the beginning of this discussion, it is necessary to review the book. Iceland's Constitution is a social treaty, the highest law in the country and the foundation of the European Government. It contains human rights, as well as the duties of state and citizen alike. Therefore, it is very important that the Constitution be part of all the people of the country, reflect their common values, and enjoy general trust. From the Republic's Institute, the Icelanders have put their own constitution in place of the current so-called temporaryity that was brought upon us. Many committees of members and presidents of political groups have considered a review of the individual chapters. Some have succeeded, but an overall review has not been made. I think it may be said that we have made it the longest time with the Council of Control 2011-2012. The Council gave the General Assembly a panorama bill to the Constitution. The Board of Directors and Commission continued to win the proposal and put in place the 2013 Committee Committee for Commission Review. Although two-thirds of the voters wanted a national bill, it provides a basic bill for a new constitution failed to resolve the case from the General Assembly. According to the original constitution of a administrative council, which later became a administrative body, the council was to serve in the three Administrators at intervals. With continued work on the Constitution, it would have been best to maintain that basic concept and that the case continued in another stage, in continued work of the administration board and the administrative committee, including the management and monitoring committee, taking into account the feelings of the Venice Committee, national experts, according to incidents, and the general public. Such continued work could have occurred at the scene of a newly elected administrative body by civil meetings, random counsel, reasoning polls, the Internet's help, independent expert advice, or by other open, modern, democratic means that we have the right now. A new constitution with the methods used during this ideal period is worse in two ways. The first route is a journey that aims in part to the important part of it, a constitution that will exist in an open and democratic way that is least dependent on traditional categories of government and power interests and, in fact, the national constitution with the possibilities for direct participation. This would no doubt increase much more trust and respect and become a real social agreement, much more than the way we have enjoyed fine meetings, but still closed, where political leaders have met, officials have been with us, and experts have been called in. It is also remarkable that this experiment with the community council, the reasoning survey that I supported my brain, made no more apparent than is actually one of the prime minister's originals, and the poll leader has called attention to it. In fact, there was a fine change in the last records, but that is all. Second, such a constitution is far more likely to be a collective one and to be derived from a set baseline that shapes and conforms to the overall picture. For example, the executive body of authority was distributed, transparency, and responsibility. This theme had an impact on all chapters of the bill, from Genesis to Revelation. y., of the Republic's government, of the President's rule of state, of national regulations, etc. A constitution based on Danish monarchy, which exists from the late 1800's and then overpopulated, will probably be late complete and consistent and modern. Thus, it is the firm opinion of the classes that made this book to end the Constitution with another and democratic milestone followed by the first by the order of the Council of Government. It allows the public and the experts to participate, complete and complete a new and complete constitution for Iceland on the current foundation. Some of it has, of course, found its way in here, and I don't demean it. Nor will it be avoided at the beginning of this solemn career to cover only the work that has taken place at the meetings of the bosses during the past three years. She was instigated by the highest. The prime minister who put our lines in a memo from January 2018 That's where we even came from. to have the overall review of the Constitution during this terms and the next. The work that had been revised in recent years would be considered. In particular, it was called a national meeting, a administrative committee, and a board of administration, as well as a board of committees of 20053/42007, and 2013 ◯2016. It would also include the discussion that took place at the same time during the premeditation and, of course, possible discussions of the politics at the Council at the same time. This will likely also include the 43 thousand individuals who signed the last fall for the new constitution. V.E.G. In the past, a prime minister said that this was not her wish, and I believe very well that she watched conversations and other jobs. But she makes that statement on her own, and it's her choice of where she takes it and where it cannot come from. It's quite different what comes, for example. ... ina resource-based directive of the administration board or in the bill Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, why. A senator and a chief. Minister. The regulations that we were going to complete in this terms of natural resources, environment, nature protection, national law, advising the authority of the republic's president, the handling of the European Commission, and finally, of how the Constitution would be changed. Asked if the bosses had no authority at this job, the highest said. Prime Minister that she reserved her right to continue her work, even if one or more classes told her about it and did not eliminate the contributions of a bill, which would be a broad support and harmony of the committee for such. This is significant when we are standing here and discuss a bill submitted by a single channel. A senator, though, is the highest. Prime Minister. Although we in the Union would have doubts about this methodology, we certainly thought that, because of these factors, we had to continue, participate in our work, and contribute to our success. But from the very beginning, we also held that the proposals of the Government Council should primarily be put to the foundation of 2012, as the great majority of the people had agreed on in a national fee. I can't say now, when I see this, even though many things are right here, that they were the red thread at work with all the regulations we deal with here. Today, approx. Three years and 25 later, we'll start a review of this bill at the highest level. Prime Minister. It contains four layers; of resources, of the environment, of the president, as expected in a memo, as well as of the standard Icelandic language regulations that were not expected there. But I think there must be a measure of support. In the weeks to come, it can be seen whether the other provisions are broadly supported by the prime minister, at least at the beginning, be the basis for this to be submitted. It is also clear that half of the rules we were going to make during this terms will not be complete. They didn't even walk into a TV. Prime Minister, however, is extremely important. I'm gonna spend a few words on them. At least the first discovery took place. The presidents of both Union and Pirata strongly stress that the change would be completed before further observance would allow the nation to receive at least A more direct and more obvious approach and a new constitution would be easier to change without disrupting a council if not done otherwise. This was not necessarily appreciated by the majority of the committee, so in the next three years, there was no much discussion of this law. As mentioned in the case of the highest. Similarly, the prime minister did not come to the bill for national instruction. It has explained that the Venice Committee's tip to a series of prefects was a little different from the ideas that seemed to have the most sound basis in the argument. Of course, I understand that the problem is considerable. But this raises quite an interesting question, and we have a strange situation. I think we need to discuss how to interact with the experts and the public and how and when the process will best take place on a reasoning poll or another public body. There's something I think we all need to be open to discuss. At that time, I feel very bad that there is no greater desire here in the council to shape a good, open exodus. Clearly, there are conflicting opinions on how far to walk or whether a head is in need. In fact, our international commitments should take away any doubt that this would be convenient. Besides, we are faced with many challenges from day to day, which should make us all aware that we will not achieve a successful conclusion about continued life in the world of mankind unless we have a much wider international and international work. To share in it with others, we must be ready. We can mention such lasting matters as wars and inequities, but as much as global warming, much less the new technologies that we have not known before, those who have no borders, who make the next person's ideas and conversations about borders, and even nations, no doubt have to be anything else to do. These terms are not constant, they are constantly developing, and they may not be particularly old, bedy private car. Finally, when we are faced with unexpected things of that kind, the Korean epidemic has taught us that the benefits of cooperation are necessary and undisputed. These things will spring up, perhaps in some form that is quite different from what we see now and perhaps harder to control. So I don't think that there is any doubt in the ocean that we need a provision that enables us to make a commitment to a far more extensive international work. At least I think I'm sorry. It should be minimal that they themselves can call for such sources if they want them to and that they are not forbidden to do so. Just for the bill. Of course, it cannot be overlooked that the season is passing toward the end of the season. Then, and just then, we'll be able to get the immediate change in the current constitution, at least is based on the current change rules there. Three of the regulations aimed at completing the current terms will be found in the bill; the directives for President and Commission, the environment, and, finally, resources. A number of technical improvements in the current constitution, despite far better than none, were suggested in the management group. It's some of them in the highest bill. Prime Minister. The union does not rule out that in the case of a committee it will be possible to reconcile the changes most necessary and obvious and are not incompatible with the proposals of governance. The first mention should be given in the highest bill. Prime Minister's proposal for an article on nature and the environment that has made a very positive change at the Committee of Chairmans and has become a very physical proposal made by a board of governance. It involves an appeal to sustainable development, a provision for the public's right to information on the environment and the impact of implementation on it and other important improvements to the authors of the Protocol stress that there may be no tolerance for any further waiting in climatetime. So we in the United States are ready to work positively on an article of this spirit on nature and the environment so that it can be approved. Secondly, the bill is the highest. The changes made by the prime minister are subject to the president and to the Commission. As shown in a talk at the highest. Clearly, the prime minister of the past is building a clearer framework for the development of his office, in other words, of the dominant custom. The suggestion has some benefits, but some things are more vague. As an example of good things, e.g. For example, technical issues such as increased demand for a number of references and deadlines for a future president's session, although you can also ask yourself if it is necessary in an office that is not so powerful, but most certainly a form of priorities that would ensure that the president always has the majority of the country's support. I think that's a good thing. It's, for example. in accordance with guidelines. More important, the season will be extended from four years to six. I won't violate it. But further work on this law will eventually reveal whether or not the Conspiracy is in agreement with it. Third, there's a bill on the top. Prime Minister also proposals for natural resources in Iceland. Without a doubt, that section of the bill will be the most successful. It is of utmost importance that a constitution clearly ensures that the nation's ownership and extramarital resources are known and unknown. However, how such a bill is important is, especially in view of the possibility that decades will pass before we will make other adjustments in the requirements we discuss here. This article was discussed extensively, and often it was found by presidents, as well as by a number of qualified experts. Finally, proposals were sent into consultations, which, in fact, were not bound by individual classes. At that point, however, it was anticipated that individual political parties would be greatly disturbed. I found it strange, though, at all this work, and it became very clear in the treatment of this article, that it was a bit difficult to understand the changes that occurred on the bill pages between meetings. It was very difficult to see how the tips received, e.g. ... ina governmentcommunicator. The motion came, for example. turned into the board of presidents after controversy without any understandable changes reflected the most complex views on the Internet. We called for a service memo that explained the methodology, which brought us very little closer to our answer. Prime Minister has been talking about the need for a public body. I agree with her, and I believe her when she says so. But we need to remember that it is not enough to offer a consultation, calling out for public consultations and voices, that must show how this has become so. One of the candidates for the poll, Jón Ólafsson, criticized it. In a harsh review of how random it would have been to disseminate the poll, where nearly 300 citizens would have spent their precious time improving it. By itself, Mr. President. Suggestion at the highest. The prime minister of resource uses, in the opinion of the United States, to a full overdose and would in effect support and sanctify in the constitution of unacceptable distribution warrants. The proposal is very much like the sum of resources in the Community bill and the 2013 left green greens based on the proposals of governance. This proposal was decisive, in accordance with the majority of the people and would have ensured both the irresistibly time binding and the normal payment. It's got the highest. So the prime minister changed the course from the time she contributed to giving it a bill, or at least The platoon. This bill does not guarantee that the owner of the resource, all the people of the country, will receive natural gains from its property by paying a fair wage. We simply will not agree with such an article. Although the debate on resource regulations has been too focused on fishing the resource. This has not only been shown in the discussion but also in the president's meetings. Indeed, the nation's resources of various kinds and innovations are increasing and will be increasing as a result of a number of factors. It may be a change of weather, much the same with the increased knowledge and thinking of man. However, there is nothing strange about this, even though there is a slight confusion about the fishing system. This article has been the grieving part of Iceland's professional life for decades, turning over a great number of valuable jobs, but receiving vast wealth. Hard debates over the structure of the new thing have been done for decades, and this is also not a good position, either for the owners of the resource or for those using it. Most of us in this room can probably agree that the 1983 invasion was a successful step that laid the basis for the environmental sustainability of the article and, later, other changes have guaranteed the management sector. However, the basic concept of distribution has not changed much in nearly 40 years. The third support for sustainable development, the environmental factor, the social support, far too weak. Not only is it difficult to see individual settlements and even whole areas - but it is often arduous to see whether enough money from the resource will lead to its owners, the people of the country. The arrangement of distribution has even created disagreements about what the rightful owner of the fish in the sea is, for in spite of 1. The fishing laws have led many to argue over the years that these untimely and long - lasting sources have been creating rich rights. Some claim that eventually it would be a privilege. Although I do not agree with it, the time binding of all the resources would take place there doubt. In fact, there are a number of flies that can be struck in one stroke. It is clear then, after all the access permissions in all resource resources has been made temporarily, how long that time is in individual cases. It is likely to create a presumption for those who use the resources and it is necessary, both for society but, of course, for companies as well. Everyone is benefiting from the success of their professional life. It also opens the possibility of a new kind of expectation. It is essential to every industry, as well as simply a matter of basic rights to work. In fact, I'm wondering if we were just discussing the use of new resources. I hope at least Could not connect to torrent %1. Therefore, I object that our emphasis on this, as shown in the case of the highest. Prime Minister, the only thing we have is our eye on the fishing resource. The very reason why we are not suggesting the unprovable time conditions of a document is that it is somehow not to deal with this problem. The fear is about adjusting the present system, which has been done many times since 1983 and only with good success. I'm not worried that the range of time bindings in different resources and articles that provide an average level of normality and does not compromise the survival of individual resource resources. A significant deal of the Committee's time was to discuss how the words should be paid. The Conspiracy's view is simply that the owner, the nation itself, gets at the highest price each time without having too much success in the operation of the article, and the owners of companies enjoy a fair profit. Often, it is the people who have run their businesses with hard work, seers, and pioneers. No one's going to take it from them. The United States has pointed out that the most obvious way to obtain the right price is by means of some kind of invitation. They would be brought into action with various interests of the owner, the nation. There may be based reasons, permit size of enterprises, etc. Thus the companies themselves would find out what they could pay without getting too close to their operating skills. Of course, this is a general practice in a business where a company on the market has access to a limited resource and it is important to remember that this is a limited resource. Examples of these include e.g. Expenditures in monumental activities that are not different from this in themselves. In fact, this also occurs in the fishing field. True, it's a business between enterprises, transitions, where one company pays the other something that is then near the market fee and is at least much higher than what the United States receives. If someone has a better solution for the nation as soon as it guarantees the management of the enterprises, I'm open to it, but it certainly needs to be more convincing than that the General Assembly of each era feels that it is possible to make an answer to the price at any given time and what is not. Finally, because I am now running out of time, I also find it interesting that at the end, a new version of the law became the highest. The prime minister made only a subject of conversation. This will help you determine when to charge resources, i.e. when it's a profit. Then we can forget all the questions that have been mentioned in the Committee on Heat or Social Projects. Then it's out of parentheses. But when it becomes clear, there is also abundant reason to expect the owner to receive the highest price possible at any given time without leaving the dead who buys the sources. In this matter the national will is decisive and visible. I'm sure I'm going to make more speeches, but we in the United States want to reiterate that we want to work on these primarys. We will keep our views clear, but we still suggest that the case be met with another and democratic channel, which is more consistent with what was started in 2010.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u76	The President reminds me of why. The senator should refer to another man. Councilmen and the highest. Minister of full name.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u77	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the talk and rejoices that the Union is positive when it comes to trying to get together, that is most likely the environmental principle that we have considered most of all, and positive for the changes in Presidential and Commission, and other things. A senator came in. That, of course, is what lies ahead. This is here, and now we need to help with it here at the council trying to figure out if we're not going to make it through the project. I think it's really important. Hv. A senator concluded something that I wanted to talk to him more fully, as indicated by his proposal, along with other members of the council. I don't think that's clear in the suggestion, but I think it's clear that the senator came at the end of his case, i.e. business on a social basis and how it will fit within the resource code when it is spoken of as a normal currency and for a certain moderate amount of time, or when it is spoken of as a total price. Can we reach the conclusion of a normal or complete wage? Will we ever agree on that? That's what I'm talking about. Can we reach some conclusion in this regard? We haven't talked about taking all creation out into the market. I might be wondering that, too. Hv. A senator mentioned the water and heating systems. Can we assume that public citizens should pay a natural price for this use? Is it possible to bind the hands of the Lawgiver when it comes to a project that is being run on a social foundation and not for profit? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u78	Mr. President. It is made clear in our account that we will approach this work objectively. Of course, we will pay for things not directly opposed to the proposals of a board or their spirit proposed, they do not need to remain unchanged, which were accepted by two thirds of voters. It may, then, be the environmental principle and the Icelandic tongue. Well, maybe that's a little obvious. There's a lot of good in the President's chapter. We would have wanted to do this another way and make more adjustments than we can see. Yeah, I don't think there's anything wrong with having such a set of words, like a "normal" that someone might find hairy. It's just a clear message, and it has to be very supportive of a report, as is actually done in the 2013 proposal, in which the terms of the natural price are being handled very well. To mention it, and, of course, to get it done, like a bill at the highest station. The prime minister assumed, explaining in which case you expect the highest price. It must be fundamental when we're going to run a community with a first-class welfare and health service, and make sure that everyone here can have a meaningful and good, safe life, that we get as best use of very limited resources but don't give more of the money for them, whatever resources they are now, in the hands of a few people who have shaved money together in the last few years and decades. I would now have thought that senators of the left green would support that viewpoint.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u79	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. It has always been clear from the left to the green that we want to maximise the nation's property and resources. But we haven't wanted and haven't talked about marketing solutions, as I think it is. A senator does, over the whole line really. There's something like that. At any rate, I have understood the language in such a way that the line is laid and that this is how we can approach what we were discussing earlier; a natural fee or a fair one. We know that there are very different opinions at the Council on what is fair and normal, especially when it comes to money. But I think we're gonna do what. A senator can agree on many matters when it is time to do so. The suggestion. The members of Parliament are listed as being a group of resources. I think it's a complete counting, but new resources are not expected. I may have misreaded something. I wondered, then, what should we do with it when we talk about the next remuneration? We're not going to adopt a constitution solely to do that. This may have seemed to me like a transvestite, apart from having spent way too much time, many years, discussing processes rather than content. So I'm very glad that we're discussing the contents of this matter, which is the constitution and what is under here. I believe that, in the end, all of us will agree that it should and will improve the implementation of these regulations into a constitution. That's why I'm hoping for work ahead of me.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u80	Mr. President. To keep it in place, I mentioned that I knew no better way to compete for limited resources than some kind of tender or competitive offer. I would be open to other suggestions if they were found. However, I have little faith that the members of the council here can find the right price. Expenditures can be many, they can be cut apart because we also need to be careful about our social activities, which are part of sustainable development. You can provide parts at a time, set out in certain areas, and provide specific sizes. Then there are other laws such as maximum resources as individual companies, which sometimes prevent them from offering more. So I'm not worried about this, and this is, as I said, done everywhere else. I'd like to hear it. A senator's natural, worthy, good, or easy assignment for the council if we were to find out what was normal for a certain company to pay for or what would be normal if they were to be paid to build a bridge or such? I mean, bring us some ways that give us proof. Group of left green approved at least A higher proportion to the calculations of the government's fishing fee with the United States than he is now. What is the basis for this? A feeling? Groups of cooperation? What?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u81	The leaders...
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u82	Yeah, the premium? No, it was just a percentage. It's a lot of normal for people to just go for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u83	Mr. President. There may be two things I would like to say after that. paritaprevir Logi, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Einarsson. On one hand, of course, he and his associates in the United States and other groups have given high priority to the proposals of a administrative body and their progress in the form left by a government and monitoring committee in March 2013. I think I just have to ask. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson straight: Did the Conspiracy ever make any changes to the constitution based on anything other than the one mentioned there?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u84	Mr. President. Yes, we have been, and significant changes can be made from the original legal proposals of governance. I mentioned in my talk that I thought it best to continue this democratic process and to apply the suggestions as they were in 2013 back to the nation and have them processed. The Venetian Committee has come up with opinions, expert reports. There, the public will have an opportunity to discuss them more fully. Who knows if they come in a little different, and we can keep them going. I also mentioned earlier that we see some improvements in individual requirements here, which are being discussed, although the overall principle and the overall thought were not directly in accordance with the proposals of a board of directors. I gave up the ball with the idea that we'd at least shoot the ball. In the end, we will consider the positive aspects of our decision to do so. So I'm a much more open man than you think, huh? paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson of a year, and he is quite ready to discuss things with you, but from some of us will not waver, and it is primarily about the resource directive. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Actually, I don't understand why. A senator who is part of a group that will always flaunt the concept of the free competition and benefits of the market never relied on such ideas when it may be the nation's largest commercial means. It is totally impossible for me to understand. Maybe you're right. A senator will come and explain it right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u85	Mr. President. I'm glad to hear that. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einar Einarsson is ready to discuss more solutions and other ways in connection with the Constitution changes, but only to be firm in the proposals of the administration board from the third term from now on back to time. In the meantime, things have happened. Many suggestions have been discussed in various fields, but in the type of work that I know best, the Controversies and the Piras were so stuck in that they would have to work on the basis of a proposed government recommendation that there could be no conclusion about anything else, even if the compromise efforts were very far along. Then I'm referring to what happened in the spring of 2016. What I'm doing in there. A senator left is, in fact, whether the Conspiracy is in any other and more flexible place than then, and I understand why. That is the case with a senator, and it is out of the question. The other thing I was going to mention in my conversation with a boy. A senator on this point regarding a proposal he has made, along with other members of the council on the Constitution, which, of course, is not being particularly discussed here today but is still affecting this relationship. It's interesting to me that in the suggestion that I think was distributed here at the council today or yesterday, it is assumed that a simple approval of the Generals and National Orders will follow without any condition. I wonder what. A senator and his co-mates have not examined e.g. in the spring of 2013 a version of the changes that included more part of the council and some minimum support for the Constitution of national law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u86	Mr. President. Yes, I know the suggestions. And as with more groups meeting for a suggestion, I'm going to need to find a member of my team, and I'm guessing that's what they're going to do. A senator recognizes it in a government with left green. I don't know how much I'm supposed to believe a story analysis. Senator. Of course, we have been flexible because we think that we can be flexible, but let's bear in mind that we are not playing films in school. We're discussing basic rules in a constitution, so we've been talking about how we can do compromises in various fields, but there's some things we're never going to compromise, and maybe in this case, I'm going to get the resource advice. But as I said before, we are open to working on this environmental principle, and we believe that there are no plans to build on the basis of a proposal of government, although some adjustments are made because two-thirds of the nation wanted it to be made. And when should you obey someone, if not so much of a national bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u87	Without the intention of being unduly boring, the president wants members of the council to direct their words to the president.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u88	A respectable president. First, I want to discuss the history of this subject, even though I intend to defend my brother's part of my talk in reviewing the subject of the bill presented here. I would like to begin by saying that the prime minister was faced with a very challenging assignment, to lead this job, and that he chose to include all classes in his work, each to his own advantage. But I think the prime minister did as well as the circumstances offered and had been leading important issues that have taken much time during the council in recent years to try to see if there could be some minimal agreements on the basis of certain changes in the constitution. I'd like it to be evident from the beginning that I earlier described it as early in this process that I felt that there was no need for basic changes in the constitution. I have also described earlier that I feel that it is wrong to believe that the council is somehow bound by the national law that took place in its time, and it is quite wrong to believe that it has chosen the bill itself to be written in its own time, that it is simply not true. It suggests that the wording laid the foundation in the Treaty itself and in close touch is referred to a brochure distributed to each house in the consequence of the election on the importance of the vote. I'm not gonna spend any more time on this. The important thing is that we, the Independence Party at the General, voted against this methodology. Then I come to a particular core point that I want to start with, which is: It is not a mistake to have the rule in the constitution that is so often discussed in connection with this discussion and is stored in 79rd. To her just as it is. Having this law is not a mistake, making it difficult to change the constitution. It is for a reason that the arrangement is built as it is built, and the General Assembly is not going to work on the Constitution itself as to how to change the constitution. It's against the rule itself. It is contrary to the will of those who originally wrote the constitution. I'm going to insist that they saw it just as they thought it would be difficult to turn the constitution into a bill, and that's why the article was built just the way it is. This is an enormously important factor. In many lands government laws and governments are in a way that is not easy to change. In America, e.g. To get through two divisions. In recent years, we have seen that this has been difficult. Some may ask, " Is this not a defect in the government arrangement in that country? ' Thus, they wanted this to be, that there would be a need to seek the media, that no one alone could control the memory of the part as it is at any given time, and change basic laws or other important legal procedures in that country, if I mention the United States as an example. In many parts of Europe, there are either laws or constitutions that control power. In our own constitution, the principle established for this purpose is to triple the state's jurisdiction to the courts and to execution and to the legislature. I think it may be said that here the center rests in the tributary. However, it is often discussed at the council, and I'm going to come in a little later, that many feel that the authority of this power is very important in this conflicting arms of government. There is this core law on the division of power in the land and the equilibrium between these different arms, the core of a constitution. There we actually take a position on how we want to live in, how we are going to organize our democratic organization. How free we are to the rulers, for example, depends largely on our having, for example. Independent courts. In our constitution, we are about to find regulations about how we administer the ballot, even though this calls for the election law. I don't mention it in the beginning just to draw attention to the 79th C.E. pars. it is as it is, and it is to be respected, but also to remind us that many of the points we discuss here are of very little concern to these fundamental factors of our administration. Even though many people are acting that way in this discussion, as if we're talking about the basics in politics, we're not doing that. We're not doing that. We're mostly talking about the political popular language that's been running into the Constitution speech, sometimes with the feeling that I'm being too upset. This is significant because we start a discussion about a bill that, despite all the work, is brought only by the prime minister, not by the premates who sat together to resolve matters and test common wills to make certain changes. I support the prime minister in it. I think she's doing the right thing, and I'm just going to say: "I admire a little of her determination to have the council stand before this opinion and not have them locked up in a conference room all the time. It matters. I really support it because we're taking this discussion. It is at the same time a little sad to talk about formalities when, of course, the discussion is about the big matter. It's tempting, but maybe I don't have enough time to do that in a half-hour talk, to cover one and another in our constitution, which I think might be totally up - to - date and would have been a larger part of the discussion of the constitution in recent years. Without going into any detail, I'm going to let myself mention, for example. the power switch between the legislator and the European Commission, the power balance between that. That is fundamental, and it is exciting to discuss that matter. If there's anything, I think I can say as a senator for a few years, both in the administrative and administrative parts, and in the government, that it's quite indisputable to have considerable authority in Iceland. Some of the proposed items I would also consider the authority of the European Commission, e.g. that if we open up the possibility that a matter could exist, not only within the terms of the election, but even between terms, and then consider a suggestion, in view of the fact that it is with the Commission where the bills are built up. Then I think it might be said that it was to further support the development of the council. But there are other factors that, of course, have an impact. We have been making changes in balance between the majority and the smaller parts of the council without finally being pacified in a stone, allowing for a long future. We've been, I'm going to say, to try one thing and another on that subject. I'll mention it as one. Another thing I could mention, which we're not discussing in this bill, is the ballast ships. There's a point I feel that voters often come up with someone, and I think it's time to ask myself, " Is it a good time to wonder if the ideal arrangements we made with the change? ' How is it enough to achieve the goals we aim to keep in touch with the voters? How do people in the country like to live in these grand districts? I'd say they could be cut in half, each by itself, to make a better connection. What does it mean to have Reykjavík north and south? I say, "That makes no sense." May I be one of the districts, and if you read the constitution on this point, it's kind of a practitioner, we'll just cut the principles in two to meet other requirements or other goals we're working on. This is how I could continue to deal with things that we're dealing with in the constitution and with the actual democracy and the implementation of it in the land, but we're not here to discuss it. However, we are discussing many important things. I'm gonna let me say again about the 79th floor. That we are in this position, we have this bill, we have many suggestions, not much harmony I hear, here in 1st. V.E.G. Prime Minister: This is not my dream bill; this is not what I would have suggested if I had sat alone on my keyboard. I can say exactly the same thing. Still, I could support myself for special arrangements or work with them at least At the council. I haven't heard anyone say, "This is my dream bill." This is the situation we're in. We are at the same time in the situation that even if there is more here for the change, we know at the same time on the basis of the 79th C.E. that's not enough. If you're going to fight for it and take a lot of time and put forth earnest effort during the council, deep down you need to have some conviction that it will do enough to get it done again at the next council to have the constitution changed. What is most likely to contribute to this? Yeah, it's workin' it out like it's the highest. The prime minister has tried to do all this chosen period, to have this conversation. But this is so difficult. I say that this is mainly because people simply do not want to respect this article of the Constitution and have sought ways to go around that article. Government and all the bix that humans have made around the arrangement, then throw it into a national law, and say: "It binds us when everyone knows it's not binding. This is way too far. It is time for the council to face the task and to take it seriously. Talk about it seriously, try not to dismiss it all the time, and respect what was accepted by much of the country's national law to keep it exactly this way at its time. It needs to be respected. That would be a good start, I'd say. I'm going to go over a few of the principles of the bill that, of course, are very different to each other, but I'd like to try to touch them as much as possible. I'm gonna start with 2. The bill that deals with elections for the President of Iceland. I'm just going to mention that when a priorities are proposed for choosing the President of Iceland, it is in itself no other reference than that a reasoning poll called forth an interest in the priorities. All right. I don't think there's a huge call for this. I'm going to let me draw attention to a bill with the bill saying, referring to a previous discussion, that the nation, despite the failings that may be found in the present arrangement, has so far been developed that a vote is not to be excessively distributed, as the court says, and it refers to the findings of the Committee on This. I think it's a little bit of a matter on this point. It's a suggestion. She's interesting. I think it's worth discussing here, but we're not solving some urgent problem that's come to our attention as some sort of defect in the control ship. It's my input into this point at this point. I also believe that we have gone to quite a bit of detail in 2nd. 2.g. When we're beginning to wonder that there can be a minimum in each district, etc. It will bind us a little if we leave in the future to make changes to the ballot. Then we have to go back to changing that law, and I don't really know what is being done with it. I think it would be easier to just stick to a certain number of references as the principle and not write it out any more. Of these, there are many to my comments to the bill, i.e. It is moving a long way to deal with situations that may not concern themselves very large but that need to be thought - provoking. Six-year term is just fine with me, and in itself, it's not a fundamental change. But like the highest. The prime minister came on called the time of power and the general limitation of the power of the office. When we have relatively small positions of authority, the evidence is that we control power by setting the maximum power time, of course, the memory. You would have thought that this is the case because the president is not a very prominent large person, although he is the one elected directly. Then it's the democratics that might just take a chance. This is what I'm going to mention just to come into this show. I don't feel very much about whether or not we're going to put a roof on this thing, but I'm reminded that the people have slightly chosen by the other method, i.e. I don't know. I don't know if there's ever been a more-than-long president than that. The question is, What does history tell us about this? I don't know if we're solving a realistic problem, but I think it's nice to get this out of my system, and I don't think anything would go wrong in Iceland if we took this rule up, but it doesn't touch the core points that I just mentioned in the beginning. I don't think so. I'm just going to mention that the President of Iceland has called a little bit of a call for his authority limit to be clarified. These things have been revealed in his speech, that I think more than once, and have not been very deep in them. I have always understood it so that before the presidency it is important that it be made clear between him and those who give him authority, those who choose him directly, where his authority is, what he will sign and what responsibility it holds. It says here in the Constitutional bill, as in the constitution, that he is irresponsible. I believe that this is a good thought behind the part of the case that explains this better and the extent of the transfer. I don't know if it's perfectly clear under the bill that the counterclockwise can be resolved in order to make a different rule today, but it's fine to explain exactly and in that sense I think the articles are fine. But I call attention to the fact that we are not changing much of the President's authority, which the president has sometimes mentioned when talking about his relationship with the voters. It's nice to just have it on the table that we're not moving it. Next time, I'm gonna stick around at 7. It discusses that the district attorney can accuse a cabinet minister and then the Minister's Court will be dealt with as well as with investigation and judicial action due to the proposed minister's office violation. It is noteworthy that in a study referred to, an introduction in the case is a concern that the charges against counsellers may be abused, 770-79% consider this to be the case. That, of course, is a huge fact. There is a great delivery to the council that this is the result. According to this, people really believe that the charge against counsellers will not just be used, no, but misused. That is an overwhelming conclusion, perhaps not all of which are surprising. But I'm glad it's on schedule. What you may need here is to make sense. It may not be in the Constitution itself, but all that is yet to be decided on by the law by taking a stand on whether a national court will survive, in what way the investigation will be carried out, whether the attorney of the State can take a case of his own initiative or only after a lawsuit by the Council - all these little things are difficult to understand if you are going to take this step to change on your own. It is very difficult to say: We will take the charge of the Council, but we will not answer any questions as to what will be done if the General believes a minister has committed a crime. Here we begin with the question: Is it relevant to the General? Is that the idea, taking it altogether from the Council? Or is the Allied a role? About which, for example. The court should live, according to the report, has a decision to be made by the General. That's normal, and I would have thought we would have to have that bill in our right hand while we have the Change of Constitution to our left. That's what I wanted to say. The survey suggests that prior to a discussion, 60% of the participants were opposed to ending national judgment, but after examining the matter, only 32% objected to laying down national judgment. This is clearly the subject that people associate with today. It's not time for all factors. I would have liked to have more time to talk like that. 14th ..., writing it out on the synonym as it does. That's a big deal. I went through law school and read it under a court order that a prime minister would handle the tribunal. Then we learned this here a few years ago that it may not be quite like that. Then we'll have reason to write it into the constitution. But if it needs to be written in this way, we'll make it clear that this is what the president needs to do before he agrees with it, I don't know. I think there's quite a bit of human activity going on. The same is true of Article 16. I'm gonna let myself say that the media bill is clearly a matter of concern to people. The media bill is adopted at the General Assembly. President denied. The Synod gathers and replaces the law. Then you scratch your head and say, "Is this normal? Is there any conclusion that the council has only five days? I think this rule is really inevitable because in political conflicts such as those involved, it is quite clear what would have happened if a council had been called together and someone was supposed to finish a bill in five days. That bill would never have been completed in five days. It's just that way. I don't really know about this. But this is not a question of the implementation of democracy and human rights in the country or anything like that. And speaking of human rights, it is now the constitution that has the thickest and longest articles on human rights that often defend its citizens because it lacks all efforts to distribute power as I have been to, which is the core part of our constitution. Well, that's 21 g's. I had only mentioned that a case would fall to the end of an election period. I know it so well. I've been sitting here so often at council contracts, and it's so sad to see the same matter written over and over again. It's easy to be frustrated with this as a minister or with a case that's crossed out, but you have to look at it in a balance of power. We're talking about how far we should go in making the European Commission the means to achieve our will in the power of more things and how much we have to spend the lesser part of it. I don't have time to go over all things. I'm going to go straight to one big case that is the last provisions to enter the resource policy, as Prime Minister came to, a long, long history. First, I'm going to explain my view that I personally feel that there could be some misunderstanding about the article. Then I'm specifically referring when people call for it, and I've heard more than one prime speaker call for the need for the article, and it must be mentioned for the temporary distribution of documents. It's just that it has to happen, or we're facing the risk of it, if I get it right, that the sources will be somehow permanent. But we have a solution to the courts on this point. We have a judgment in a so - called Water Island case, where the Supreme Court has dealt specifically with this point. And what does the Supreme Court say? With the permission of the President, I'm going to step down to the Supreme Court's logic support. I don't have time to go over it all, but this is more of the Supreme Court. It says: ▪ Sources are thus just permanent in the sense that they will not be cut down or changed except by law. Thus, under the cover of his authority, the Council can further determine the right to fish, bind it to conditions, or collect more money for him than is now being paid because of changing views about the provision of the European Union, which uses in Iceland's centres. So it says: The Supreme Court considers this matter and concludes: "It is quite clear that even if a fish - control law allows for premature distribution, of course the lawgiver can always intervene. This interpretation, this conclusion, we are strengthening with the bill of the law at its height. Prime Minister contributes. In my mind, we have an excellent set of resources in front of us, which does not change the fact that the council must make a decision on the individual arrangements. The only comment I have to make is the huge compromise that actually means taking into account supporting such a provision is that the concept of national possession, which is then a new constitution, has to be redefined. The Venice Committee has responded: "Where are you using this new concept? What does it mean to create a new, special phenomenon - what? What's the point? In the historical context, the Constitution that describes national property or possessions is described as the property of the nation, for example, in general. In the Soviet Union and other such countries, which have eventually collapsed, such laws have had absolutely no meaning. This is in this respect to a considerable socialistic ide of some new Icelandic variation in a report. In effect, the report says that this is no different than just as a general policy declaration and underscores the authority of the Lawgiver in order to have full custody of its use. I simply have to let this float as a general comment on this. Other than that, I feel that the requirement to build on temporary sources has not been reasoned sufficiently, especially in the light of the judgment I referred to. The Supreme Court has already taken this into consideration. A respectable president. This is where the Constitution itself is, and when you're speaking of it, time is quick to pass. I'm going to reiterate what I mentioned at the outset that Prime Minister has done well in putting the council before these big opinions, and I believe that we should try to live up to it by taking this work seriously and testing what we can agree on so that after the election there is some possibility that after the election there will be a confirmation. Otherwise, it's no good.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u89	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the speech. She was interesting, as usual. I'm still a little confused about one thing, i.e. how to get it to the highest. A minister envisions the democratic coming of the people and what national desire should be respected. V.E.G. You see, a minister took note of a switch between the executive authority and the legislature, and it is like music to my ears. Of course, we should do as we would if we were discussing a bill to a new constitution on the basis of a administrative committee. Unfortunately, we're not doing it today, but I agree with the highest. Ministers that it is fundamental and exciting to discuss it. I look forward to further discussions with the highest. Minister on that. In contrast, it was the highest. The minister's comment that these are proposals to change the Constitution's terms so that Congress should be confirmed and the voters needed to confirm, as a democracy expansion, rather than a new council. He referred there to national law on the current change laws, expected from a republican institution. I call attention to the fact that this law is 61st. The Constitution of Iceland's unique matters. The new bill has the first words, with the permission of the president: We who live in Iceland want to create a just society where everyone sits at the same table. The opening words in the constitution as the highest form. The minister seems to consider it democratic, by permission of the president: We, Christian, tíundi of God's grace, King of Iceland and Denmark, Vindur and Gauta, Duke of Slésvík, Holtsteland, Telemerski, Ldenborg and Aldinburg, well known... A respectable president. I'd appreciate it if it was the highest. A minister could only explain his understanding of the country's entrance to decision making.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u90	A respectable president. In fact, just so you know, the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland starts with the words: '-Iceland is a republic with a political government. But how do I picture the approach of the nation? I believe it is important, and I refer to the fact that the council must live up to its responsibility. Then I look at the arrangement that was set here at the time, when, in fact, when I was in a position of government, that the council merely gave up the project, gave it up, and actually sent it to some committee, who eventually became the majority of the authority at the General Assembly. That's what I'm saying. We can agree that after a case has been handled here at the council and that has been handled in an excellent setting, we test our national will. I think it's all right with me, and I can see, for example. nothing to say that after two Parliaments have agreed to do so, there is some sort of security problem in the nation. I can totally picture it. But the council must take the initiative.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u91	A respectable president. I have to celebrate the ultimate. A minister is kind to ask the nation for anything because I notice how selective it is when to listen to the nation or to voters when it comes to national pay. The law of change, but the highest. The minister put it as if it were going around the current constitution of the Constitution, is to increase democracy, in order to have voters in order to change the constitution rather than only representatives do so. It's a democracy increase. There's not going around anything, it's a democracies. However, the law is the highest. The minister here falsely stated that he had been approved in the Constitution of the Constitution for the extraordinary affairs of Iceland, to which the king kindly handed us. So there is not much democratic will behind that particular arrangement. It's more like the 61st par. as shown in later adjustments. [[Up front.]] But at least I welcome it to the highest. A minister is kindly prepared to allow the nation to have some opinions about what things are like. But I just wish it would go further.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u92	A respectable president. I'm beginning to feel like me and what. A senator is in his discussion here, each in his own chamber, even in his own department. I don't know what it is. A senator is leaving when he says I'm protesting some billing option. I'm referring to the events of the past few years. I'm referring to an arrangement that was set here by a greater part of the council between 2009 and 2009, to create a new channel for administrative changes without a basic basis in the administration laws. Of course, it all ended in disaster. That's what I'm referring to. I'm not contradicting the country's approach. I believe that there is a great improvement, just as the current constitution was originally under the nation and was given a very broad support, of which, of course, is fundamental. Or do people think that it's only fine that the more part of each time is a little bit of stirring the Constitution, and it doesn't matter if we get 52% of them on national terms, so just come back a new government and take it back? This isn't what I picture.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u93	Mr. President. In the government covenant, which the government groups sometimes make as if an irreverent covenant, such as. already at the highest level. Minister wants to sell a bank, says, with permission of the president: The government wants to continue its full reexamination of the Constitution in an interpolitic partnership with the country's source... According to the government, partnerships are being achieved through the careers of the work. I'd like to refer to the book at the highest. The secretary of finance since October 2018 or when this bill was being processed had just begun. It says the highest. Minister, he doesn't think he needs an overall review. Although he has differing opinions about the subject, he feels that the group is being immersed in material that is outside what he feels is needed to discuss. At the beginning, the prime minister's memo refers to an overall review of the constitution, so I'd like to ask the highest question. Minister if he was in this prefect's work with all his heart, whether he had never intended to land this task. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u94	A respectable president. This is where it goes. A senator says that when people say they're going to have a full reexamination of the Constitution, they intend to change every law. [[Up front.]] No, let's say what. A senator up here. All right. I don't know exactly what to do. So a senator is going here. All I know is that the work in the constitution mentioned took place, that I was there at meetings, and I participated in work, and that I was giving a talk about the highest level. A prime minister held the matter tight but faced a considerable challenge. One of the things that happened in the district work was that the chairman of the Conspiracy could no longer support the decision, but it could not, in any way, be a part of supporting the final outcome. I don't know why. A senator is trying to draw the attention away, or he is trying to bullshit in here the idea that by participating in the overall review of the Constitution, people are committed to changing every law, which, of course, is crazy and never existed. That's what my book goes on, that even though we go through the entire constitution and see where the need to change is, it doesn't mean that we're going to swallow the proposals of a board. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u95	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, and I'm sorry if I've upset him. But I don't know any better than I do. A minister has not been prepared to accept the conclusions we are considering today, the highest. Secretary of finance, part of the government trident and chairman of the Independence Party. I don't understand why he's dragging the Speaker into this when he's not behind what we're talking about today. So the directors of the ruling parties were to accept whatever the prime minister put on the table, all the suggestions, but those who made this government covenant and cooperate with the highest level. The prime minister did not need to agree? I noticed, too, that the highest. The minister of finance here speaks of the political fanciful debates, so he wants to ask for the highest power. Minister if he considers the interest of a nation of his resources to be part of the popular politics that are being babbled in a constitution discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u96	A respectable president. It's all right. A senator has something material to say about the matter. What I'm talking about is what I'm talking about. I'm talking about the management of fish fishing for years at the General Assembly, and now it seems to me that some people want to put an end to this discussion by simply changing the constitution. Then there's nothing more to discuss. And I say, it's just the wrong approach. I find the requirement for the type of change in the constitution which includes the requirement for temporary access to common resources and the evidence presented in the bill at the highest level. A lengthy piece of paper that is well - supported is the case with the prime minister, whose strength is behind it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u97	A respectable president. I would especially like to rejoice that the head of the Independence Party is going to take this matter seriously. I hope he doesn't look at the constitution as a popular or popular. For my part, I immediately declared it, after working at the 25 meetings, that I was ready to be on at least Three cases. In many ways, I agree with things that happened at the highest level. Secretary of finance on the Presidential part. But it's not my question here. It's just that now I'm simply pointing out that we wanted to show that a greater solidarity could be achieved, which was the key to our original work. I'd like to ask, however, the highest. Secretary of finance whether or not I understood him correctly, supports the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance on the resource directive as it comes from the highest level. Prime Minister? I think it was very important to get it straight. Is the minister of finance declaring support to that arrangement? Because he's gone after the thing that concerns the resources like the highest. The prime minister makes that recommendation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u98	A respectable president. So I just start out in a manner similar to what happened. I'd like to be happy to hear that she seems to be taking the conversation at the Hall of Congress seriously. There is, of course, great joy. I'll just give it back to you. A senator and thank you for this comment she made. Of course, it means very much to me that she noticed that I was going to take the matter seriously. I think I've been quite clear about the resource directive, that it's very rational, that it covers a subject we've been discussing for 25 years, and that the law is not perfect. What I particularly have in mind is the need for the concept of national property. In the end, it is all about how a report is outlined. Of course, it's a new term in Icelandic rights, which is not to be found in a comparable way than it is stated here, and I leave myself the right to continue to discuss the subject. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u99	Mr. President. So we really keep going, it's clear to the top. The secretary of finance will support the arrangement as it seems today. What disturbs him is the national principle. The current national rights principle does not change any of the current law. V.E.G. The prime minister gives no basic details as to what to change with this bill. The report says that this means that there must be temporary or divulging documents. First, the highest. Secretary of finance is so pleased with the law as it comes from the prime minister, I ask: Can the highest. For example, if this is to be his real will and prime minister's, does a financial minister accept this passus and post it into the article itself so that the Lawgiver's will be unambiguous, as indicated in the report? I'd be the highest. A financial minister who is truly ready to think about it?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u100	A respectable president. Whatever it is. A senator here indicated that she was at peace with the arrangement, if it was necessary to be temporary or indistinguishable. However, it has been this way throughout all the work to bring in the contributions of this bill, as well as to the change in the bill's proposal, that the wording of ◯ or divulgeable ◯ is released. The point is that there is no need to settle this in the text itself. That's perfectly clear on the bill and on the report. Whatever it is. A senator may need to be a little clearer to the fact that there is a need not to say anything or to divulge. Hv. A senator is not trying to do anything but drive through the Constitution changes in the fishing system. Let's just talk about it the way it is. That's what it's all about. Despite the fact that I have called attention to the Water Island Court, in which the Supreme Court has taken a stand on this point that it is claimed that some legally unsure state exists, this remains to be kept on the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u101	President. In the bill at the highest. Prime Minister, by permission of the president, says: It should be prescribed by the law to provide the means to make a profit-exploitation wage. If we were to receive the spirit of the member of the administration body and then end up with a commission from the Commission and Control Committee, 2013, then there was a total price, and a natural fee was spoken of in the treatment of the council on the case. What the Piratars and I have been trying to get together and keep together is that it's a total price, i.e. p &lt; 0.0001 &gt; &lt; 0.0001 &gt; &lt; 0.0001 &gt; &lt; 0.0001 &gt; &lt; 0.0001 &gt; &gt; &lt; 0.001 Now, I'm just going to use the word market fees for what the prime minister is saying, a tip-a-pelled company of sources for profit, so that everyone who uses Iceland's resources for a market price. Is it something that would please the highest? Secretary of finance?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u102	A respectable president. I've been involved in governments that have directly in a government contract to open up this possibility, that for innovation rights, a potential market-based fee is due. Of course, such ideas need to be completed and built so that we can achieve our purpose. What we read is that none of what we do in the constitution prevents the lawgiver from taking the cost at any given time. We need to be careful when using terms such as a full fee, a marketing fee, a natural fee, or what it may be because by such phrase, the Constitution will bind the Lawgiver's hands to the extent available to the intent of the Constitution. We need to be clear as to what is meant. This was only applied when such use was being used for profit. This is because after even long periods of time, it is sometimes impossible to gain much benefit.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u103	Mr. President. I just want to do the best. Secretary of the budget later in answer to the 79th paragraph. It's like the highest. A minister went over the law needs to change the constitution as far as the 79th paragraph. Medicinal product no longer authorised Yet, it can also be changed by a senator's bill, and it was done in 2013 in ways that could be changed in some other way. V.E.G. Secretary of the budget, the highest. Prime Minister, agreed that for a certain period of time the constitution could be changed in another way. If the Council agreed to a bill or to correct a two-thirds of the paid votes and a minimum 40% voter accepted it, the constitution could be changed. So a change in the rules of constitution can be drawn up. This has been done and has been approved, including of the highest. Secretary of finance. Maybe it's the highest. Minister's gonna get something into this. Regarding the people's will: What is in the bill of the Government Council is just what was presented at the National Meeting and through detailed processes. On the other hand, people want to find a way to bring up a legal bill at the General Assembly that politicians are neglecting and the possibility of being politicians doing something that is clearly in opposition to national intentions, they can call after getting the case to themselves - they can go to the Baptist and beg to get the case, which is different whether he allows or not - that with 10% of the people's will they can call for their own national pay. [[The president calls.]] Is it unnatural to have a national agreement where a greater part of the nation can stop what has been done at the Council? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is that unnatural?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u104	A respectable president. Only on the provisional principle. A senator referred to his historical explanation, using a safety valve that could never happen at that time except with the nation's overwhelming support. This is all a story written in 2009, and indeed before the elections in 2009, where there was a huge conflict here in the council, steeled in steel, how to continue to win the case. It ended up in all kinds of votes and appendages, such as the Council of Government and Council, and what all of these were called. It was an attempt by members of the General Assembly to handle the matter a little from the firing force, saying: "We can do this if we can achieve a broad solidarity and also achieve a solidarity of the nation. But that was not enough, unfortunately. My presentation simply goes on to see that it is a good thing to approach the nation, even after the acts of national law reformation. A senator was asking about it. On the other hand, I notice interesting findings in the reasoning survey on this point. [[The president calls.]] But the starting point is always to respect the constitution as it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u105	A respectable president. The nation is the director, so it's clear, and I don't intend to answer any questions about it. That's just the way it is. However, in view of that fact, the question is, How will we show ourselves here at the Council? how we are going to be relegating in the light of the legal technology that we live in, in fact, in the current constitution and in the political process. We'll talk to a bill at the highest. Prime Minister on the change in constitution. There are many things about that bill that are physical, that are not so fancy, and that many things are missing. It is the main symptom of the missing objects, despite the very original plans. Prime Ministers and those who headed for the expedition and the pursuers. V.E.G. The prime minister and financial minister have talked a little about their desire to discuss the matter materially, and in general, this is a very serious point. At times, the Allegler's insistence on seeing a committee at the right time or on having enough time left for someone or anything and forgets to think about the subject, so it seems that when the top end of the matter, it is a very serious matter. Ministers talk like that. Normally, I'd be in that place myself. However, the form matters and also matters in other cases where we discuss something other than a constitution, but especially when it comes to the role of the council and the role of the public, voters, when setting a new constitution, you think the process is important. For example, what if a prime minister decided that he, she, or high, would have the authority to establish a law without the council, and the council would object, and the prime minister would say: Yes, let's discuss the matter in a material way. What would the council say? I think the council would say, " No, we're not discussing this materially, but we're going to discuss how you're going beyond your authority and how we're going to have the democracy in this country. I think and I hope that that's what the Council would say and do what it takes to enforce it. But now we are to discuss this in a physical way when it is that it was really, in the real world that we all live in and argue, at the national conventions of 20 October 2012, and the results of that national payment were clear. It's important, more dignified President, that we heed that conclusion. Even if we can ignore it legally, it's wrong, a respectable president. Ignoring it is morally wrong. Now it's just as right as the highest. The secretary of finance earlier said that this national hearing was not about a particular bill, it was about to establish a new constitution on the board of directors. We can do just that, and the situation has changed and can be changed, and that has always been clear. That was clear when a government council was chosen. This was clear when a governing body was appointed. This was clear when a proposal was made, and it was clear in the Congress of the Council of 2012 and 2013. There's no disagreement about it in here, and we don't have to wrangle about it. That's why I'm bored of being ignored as if we had to wrangle about it. It's just in front of you. The other is that if we are going to remain loyal to politicians, we at least have to pretend to listen to the national will when it comes to an important arrangement that the nation has judged. It is not necessarily a law that we like. I'll give you an example, the National Council, which a greater proportion of voters in 2012 would like to have in a constitution. It was a bad decision in my opinion, I think it's absolutely crazy to have a national church law in today's society, but good and good, I'll still put my name on a bill with such regulations, screaming and kicking, because I believe that if I'm going to change it, it should be done under other merits. The bill to the new constitution is a compromise. There was always compromise, and the Constitutions are always. It is wrong, in effect, for stewards to act as if it was just their way and nothing else. It's just wrong. Senators have been quite willing to participate in discussions about these matters and have participated in discussions and have taken the initiative to discuss these matters for many years. The law is missing from the highest. The secretary of finance to discuss the issues he then gets into a pita and claims that he would like to discuss rather than the issues under consideration. Let him do it. In a sense, I agree with the highest. Minister. But all right, here's the bill, there's some things nice and there's missing, and there's still another bad thing I'm going to go over here and hope I can make it last. But there's a lot to go over. As people probably know in this room, I was among the so-called presidents, I'm not the president of Pirata, I don't have an Chairman, but I was the representative of Pirata in the Presidency group that has been met in the season of election and ended up by the Supreme Court. This bill was presented by the prime minister. I've worked hard to attend and observe and do my homework, and I have to say that at the beginning of this work, I honestly didn't have much faith in it, but I wanted us to attend these meetings, keep our viewpoints in the discussion, and try to make sure that this would be controlled on the course of the best course and try to see the good and bright things that were being said. Prime Minister. We immediately arranged for us to start the change. We immediately suggested that the meetings be opened, but we were never heard when it came to such things. We're good, chief. The prime minister decided to do this, and the prime minister decides to do so and has not made a commitment to do as we would like. I just want to point out that we had done this differently and that we wanted to do this differently. We shared in this despite knowing that it could end completely differently from what we wanted. That's because we're certain, a respectable president, for a conversation, I'm sure. We've proved it now. But after this process, I'm, unfortunately, completely convinced--I hope I'm wrong, but I think I'm probably right--that the Council is not in charge of the project, especially the government. I don't think that the reason is because these specific people have chosen governments or that these specified more things exist, I think a certain political impossible is that governments, or premates, come together and set their own limits on how their power should work. During the collapse, a shouting of a highly maligned government to show that it has sometimes been ridiculed, such as the misapprehensible dog when people may have been referring to a highly esteemed government, which I think, a respected president, to the fact that the cry was true. The government is incompetent to determine its own limits of power, and it is overgrowding in this bill how profound that truth is. It is evident at the bill how things are missing from the bill of governance and other ideas that have developed, things to control and limit the authority of the Ministers, or to maintain and counterpolitical politics in general. As an example, this bill provides a time limit for the republic's chair, which is almost powerless in its entirety, at least We want to believe that. What for, Mr. Honorable President? Why is it necessary to ensure that the Republic's president does not sit too long? It's just because of the ex-fiancists. President Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson? Why aren't ministers in there, like the Council of Control? For this reason, there is a very obvious reason, a respected president: The minister wrote this bill, and there is nothing more complex than that. There's no perplexing reason behind that. There's no mystery or secret that makes it a worse idea. It's just because the people who run it today, the legal technology as it is, the constitution is the same people and should submit to the limitations of the Constitution, to put their authority. I'm beginning to agree that we will eventually be forced to do that, and perhaps as soon as possible, we need some sort of separate meeting, some form of administration, which I haven't finally implemented into my head, but I believe that this is the only way to prevent the conflict of interest that is inevitable, that politicians decide their own limitations. One of the many things I feel are missing in the bill is a law of national law. Now, there is a full passage on the principles and ideologies of the Council of Government of many in this room and the supporters of Pirata that others think are most important. As a voter, I believe that national law is the most important thing. There is no law I love more than that, no law that I think would improve politics more than that, and it's just too busy to take, and I want to underscore it. It is not in the bill, and from the perspective of the prime minister, I can quite understand why. So it was that the bill - which me and Piratar have severely criticized, and we may not have voted with, in fact, unlikely - was sent to the Venice Committee, who gave her opinion of it and everything good about it. The Venice Commission made quite a comment on that bill, including some of the criticism we have made, especially about the rejection threshold, and then the prime minister saw that it was too short or too difficult in some way to change it and save it, especially in view of the results of a scientific survey that was held at the time. Okay, I understand, I disagree, but I understand. I would have liked to put much more pressure and more pride in having a proper national law. It's interesting to me that it's as if there's nothing to listen to people who want to have more democracy when it comes to it, as if they're always having fantasies, as if they were allowed to be a national law as long as they're either never used or not working or so defective that there's no way for them to refuse anything. It is as if the Independence Party were completely set up in terms of national pay as long as it either does not take place or does not matter. But I will give a national law that matters and is used, not every day, but from time to time. I think the implementation of the bill of the Council of Government is just fine in that stuff, except that certain things might be more explained, but I don't think it's an impenetrable road. I think it's quite possible if people want it, but people have to want it. Another law that has been widely discussed today and in society is the resource directive and should not be surprised. That discussion reflects the decades'struggle to change things so that things are cleared up today. The situation today is that a certain profession has received permanent fishing warrants and, yes, it stands to reason that if the provincial body was pleased, it could be taken back and referred to the Supreme Court for its support. I suppose that's true. But, a respectable president, why isn't that done? There's only one reason, it's clearer. I hope that I will now offend someone in this speech, but that is because there is a need for interest. The independence party is a protection of personal interest. It is unmitigated, and it is an immoral, respectable president. We should not pretend that a political party is a fairly public protection for the financial interests of certain members of the community. That's not okay, especially when it comes to constitution. To change that, we need regulations in the constitution, and I'd like to give an example. Complaining macroilation occurred recently and is now being treated in a professional committee of saying goodbye to a gray patch. Obviously, it is maintained that it is perfectly normal to make a permanent dinner in society, but it is not okay and that is to be fundamental to its failure and that it is to remain in a constitution that it is not in order. And as soon as we're on the subject, we're just supposed to be clear about this, even if we leave the question of what would happen to our present quotas with the legalization of this arrangement or a change of motion on the part of our reverends, Pirata, Groups, and others, these are two forms of change. It is important that we place some rhythm in the constitution of national possession at least not permanent use in the hands of a private member of the so - called national property, at least not. It's supposed to be clear. I kind of thought it was funny, but it was kind of tragic, to listen to an answer at the highest. Minister to ask why. paritaprevir When Jón Þór, son of Ólafsson, asked the highest question. A minister is direct in what he would like to have the arrangement like this. The highest answer. The secretary of finance was in every way, so that he would be willing to have any fees as long as this permanent holding was still on the people, i.e. least among those who already have. We've come forward, Piratars, Group of the People, and why. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, the only motion to change the bill so that the subject would be the same as in the second bill we have submitted, which is a continuation of the bill of administration, which said the bill based on the board's bill. It was submitted before the hearing was recommended for her in the trial, to be included in the committee. It's a good way to change it. If it is done on clear and metabolic grounds, there is nothing wrong if it is guaranteed to achieve its objective. We have worked hard to keep the subject text the same as since the case was correct in the management and monitoring committee in its 2013 extension list. However, we refer to a paper that is quite extensive, about 35. The bill for the new constitution also included at the General Assembly of 26 Parliaments, which includes the European Parliament. magazine on the eternal bitebone, full of fees, or normal, and I'm going to go right into it, and I'm going to read from the bill's paper to be clear about it. In section V., an explanation for the 35th paragraph. says, with permission of the president: Thus, a principle normal to charge the total cost of resource use in national property is reasonable. The total price, i.e., refers to market prices. The highest price anyone is willing to pay, e.g. on the market or auction or in contracts with the state as the agent of the rights owner, the nation. Again, the full price of the principle is applicable to the situation where resource resources are formed at a different level. On the other hand, if resource use is not a private resource, such as social projects, research, or standard applications of individuals without significant revenue, the legislation of the legislators may require that the normal currency be required after incidents none or determined in any way except on the market or on the auction, such as a fixed budget. There's more coverage to find, a respectable president, whom I'm going to release read directly than reference to it. I read this up because I've noticed that in the resource - charge discussion, it has been tried to paint things up so that it is impossible that the terms normal pay or the total price applies only to the fishing resource. I'd like to reiterate that it's wrong when it's the highest. Ministers say that this resource policy, or what we have built up, or the Conspiracy, or the Pirates, or whatever we have in the Council of Governments, is only expected to hunt the resource. It's simply wrong. All resources are expected. Of course, emphasis is placed on how to handle the most advanced resource; of course it is emphasized. That doesn't mean she only defended her. I must also say that I've wondered exactly what it is about these market routes that have been breast-fed on the left motion, ◯ green supply. I can't quite figure it out. All I've heard was that. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir noted that left greens are generally low on market routes, or as she put it, they did not speak for taking all creations public. However, market areas are not being proposed. It's just assumed that we use the right way to get the right price for resource use, and I don't really like it the best way to say it, sometimes the market way is just the best way to do it, not always, but sometimes. It has generally benefited better than the fact that the State determines it, such as the examples prove, here and elsewhere. I don't want to rub the left movement a quarter of a green supply out of it in particular, but ad for a little more explanation. Councilmen VG see what it is about these measures, which are bad or what the consequences are. I can't figure it out unless the word "pussy" doesn't sound good for people who call themselves on the left. That's my understanding, and hopefully the understanding will deepen by the evening or by the time. But then I will take my case for a change of law. I mentioned earlier that at the beginning of the work, it was the highest. The prime minister has arranged for the change to be put first. This is because the current constitution works in such a way that to change it, the General shall have to accept a change, interrupt the council immediately, not afterwards, but immediately, there is no particular stretchable term in this context, and after the election, it needs to accept the same change as they have responded. This means that there is a tendency to wait until the end of the terms. I think that's almost always done, although I haven't checked every case, in fact, in this matter. It is also important to arrive at the entry of voters to make changes extremely small. Groups such as the Independence Party do not make a particularly great distinction between national pay and general elections. This may be reflected in the fact that the Independence Party is in control, feels entitled to what seems to be, and feels that it merely national desire to be in charge and control as most, now a national agreement. In fact, some members of other categories said here during the most isolated period of direct words that a national agreement had been made and referred to them as General elections. It's a ridiculous idea if I'm asked, a respectable president, but it's now that we can have such ideas in our head and even express them out loud. In any case, there have been some ideas about changing the laws of the Constitution so that the nation's presence is somehow ensured in a national fee. A number of subsequent transfers have been made, one in the subtraction board, another in the bill of the management and monitoring committee, still another in a committee or a leading committee party, and another from what happened. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir, in 2016, probably. It is not great holiness when it comes to laws and arrangements, but it has been accompanied by the desire to increase the nation's approach to a change in constitution. There's a good reason for that. She is that when we choose to go to the Generals, we choose a lot of things. That is the fundamental difference between national pay and elections. The meeting of voters to the way things work in Iceland is that they get several letters, a part of our alphabet beautiful, and they get to match one letter every four years. It's the whole event. That's all the voter gets to say about how the country is ruled. I suggest, and hope it doesn't sound anarkic, that it may quite be more than that. The letters could be five, even ten. Perhaps it would be best if voters had someone right they could use themselves to make things straight, had only a lot of letters in front of them, perhaps in the form of a bill or a suggestion where voters could read the proposal and say yes or no to all the beautiful words there was. I don't think it's a crazy sound, a respectable president, I think she's only relatively modest and self-proven, that's what I think, being a Pirati and all of that. V.E.G. The minister of finance went before him to use the valid principles to change the constitution, and we took only small answers as to how it should be considered more democratic than the ideas that have come up in the process of changing the laws of the Constitution. But that's when they wanted the highest. The secretary of finance defends himself by talking about the administrative and administrative phenomena and all the bad things that were being done in his time, a long time ago. So I would like to answer this question: If Iceland's politicians are going to say that they want the entrance of their national will, they're going to recommend it, whether it involves an arrangement of national pay or an act of remuneration, or a system of national legislation or a new law of government or whatever, just that they're going to offer some suggestions. But the proponent that the most democratic way of doing this is as if it's always been done, a respectable president, I think it's a joke. Once buried in history, it becomes very fast. I think that opposition to changes in these activities rests primarily on the incrediblely alleged glory of the past, which is an opinion I do not share. Most important, in the last minute I have, I want to go over the road ahead of the fact that, unfortunately, he's a little fuzzy. I don't know what happens to this bill, and sometimes I say to the press, in fact, very often, that the longer I work in politics, the harder I find to predict the future. But I just know that the idea that the nation is the director is not going back into the bottle. That spirit is loose. He's not going to steam up, he's not going anywhere, he's going to stay. There is a conflict between fundamental ideas on how to change the constitution or establish a new constitution on the basis of the Republic of Iceland. The problem is that if there are politicians who themselves are to decide how the Constitution establishes its authority, then there will always be an incapacity. Politicians intend to set their own rules. I think it's more natural and reasonable that some other meeting places the legislatures, the executives and the judiciaries in a constitution. It would somehow be democratically chosen, and preferably with the highest access to the voters themselves, many ways are referred to in that topic. But I can't imagine, even if this is going to be approved, that nothing is really going to change in this sharp, vaguely shows who is the constitution manager, because when we received a constitution on Iceland's special affairs in 1874, it was the same arrangement with a nation, two elections between the elections to agree with a new constitution. Since then, there's been a lot of water running to the sea. We've become an independent republic, but we've given up a new constitution based on the ideals, the vision we have of ourselves. We still have the opportunity to change it, instead of suggesting that things have always been the way they are or that they should respect how the Constitution is now, which is true in a certain sense, not true, in the sense that we should never change it or make adjustments in it. But it must be a clear, dignified president, for we cannot go on as a republic today unless we settle this fundamental question: Who is the constitutionr? That's the question, and the answer is, America.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u106	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson before the speech. Let me begin by saying that I agree with the conclusion of his speech, that, of course, at the end of the nation that is the constitutionr, so it should be at least To be and I can totally agree with that vision of the senator. In fact, I have personally felt that when changes in the Constitution have been made, it has, in fact, been more so that the nation has made its consent to these changes than if they had directly chosen them because they have always been chosen for them in connection with the General elections without any special obligation. But there is something else. The Senator got a lot of talk about the process, how all this was done, and he talked a little bit about the 79th par. I'd like to ask the senator if he feels that it should be easy to change the constitution and whether it should be so that changes can be made in the Constitution from Congress to Congress, depending on how the winds blow in society. Or does the senator believe that for such things to go on, there would have to be another one, an increase in the number of members of a council that either obliges it or increase the share in national pay? Or is the senator really calling for the fact that only an assembly can be changed without any particular problem?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u107	A respectable president. Well, what do you think is a special problem in the political sense? My answer is no. I don't think changing the constitution should be easy. I think it should be difficult, not impossible, but I have to admit that I don't have a final version in my head of how it works. However, I firmly believe that the voters should come to that decision. This is because during the election, we are choosing so many things at once, as I did a little bit earlier. We really have just one letter of very limited means to say everything we have to say. And, for example, I have often said before becoming a senator, and indeed, after I became a senator, that I often agree very strongly with the left movement, a green offering on various matters and agree with the Independence Party on other things. I have to choose either one. I don't quite understand why. Why can't we just choose more? Actually, it might drag me into a discussion about something else, but I'm not gonna do it here, i.e. ... forpre-election. For me, the nation's central approach to the case is because each subject is drowned in the election. We are never merely choosing taxes, or being premeditated against liberality. We're never just choosing something special. We, of course, all of us who have been in a campaign here, know that we are trying to appeal to voters from our own values and what we believe. But we do not necessarily have all the answers to each voter, in fact, we probably do not have all the answers to one of the voters. It's all in shape and waiting. It's all in the same pot. But when it comes to the Constitution, it is so fundamental to discuss how state of state we are going to be and then I think it's normal that the question is answered quite specifically, completely out of the way, from what else the voter wants, is the main thing to me. The extract is e.g. I'm open to such ideas, but I warn that such proselytism will be affected by the democratic process itself. I don't have time to explain it. Maybe I'll do it in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u108	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. In this regard, we agree. Obviously, we both feel that, or the nation, we have been drawn a little closer to paying a vote for a constitution when the changes in elections are under way. At least I've been there. However, this element is not included in the changes discussed here. But, hey. A member of the council concluded that there have already been some changes in the proposals to be discussed in the management and monitoring committee. All right. But for the changes that are under here, and we are discussing the bill now the highest. The prime minister of the change in the Constitution in a material way finds it acceptable. A senator that is desirable, I don't know if you should say it, rather discuss the suggestions that are on the table materially, try to get a common landing with them at either the Senate Hall or the Committee, and then carry them back before the council, and then test whether there is any more in the council to do at least that. These changes? The Senate seems to have been difficult, as it were. A senator came on, of some pessimism, I mean, but isn't it our duty to give the council the task of actually taking a stand? Is it not our duty as a Congress, the National Congress, to restore some product to the Hall after a discussion with the committee so that the council really needs to take a stand on it? That's our job, isn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u109	A respectable president. I guess that's what you expect to be easy to say. I'll say yes but. The bill under discussion in 2013 did not come to a vote. The bill that the Conspiracy and the Pirates and others have put before us this past council has not reached a vote. The foundation, ideologically speaking, the answer is yes. I feel that this is what the U.S.R. should take into account. But I wanted it to be true of the ideas that lie on the table because I've noticed that it seems that there's a prominent bit less certain in members of Congress about how they should handle this matter than among those I'm talking about, both those against or against a new constitution. I'll see if I can get another talk in the future. I'd just like to discuss how the attitude toward a new constitution is defined by a certain indifference in the community and not just from the communicators, I'm talking about someone who is trusted to study things, examine them seriously, and make serious comments that are useful for building up. I've felt that such a thing was lacking. I hope this answers a question. Senator. I don't blame the highest. Prime Minister for bringing up this matter for discussion, and I am glad that we are still talking about the constitution, for that is an important discussion and all of it. On the other hand, I feel that with the intention of focusing solely on the material aspects of this bill, I need to ask the question, " Why are we not really talking about everything else? ' There's the unfair thing about me, there's no opposition to discussing this matter. I just wish we had another conversation, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u110	A respectable president. We're discussing an enormously important case of Congress, which is a product of a lot of work, I'm going to draw it out. I've been saying from the bottom of my mind that it was a good job. I supported Prime Minister, Chairman of the Left Green - because this is a Senate case, maybe I'm going to talk about the Chairman of the Left Green rather than the highest. Prime Minister - in a comprehensive review of the Constitution, that we give ourselves two terms and a part - change of work. I sense that I am not in the same range as the highest. Prime Minister and Director VG on how to change the constitution. My 1999 virgin discourse was about the Constitution, of the equal value of votes. But I haven't changed, and I might come in later. But the work was good, and of course everyone was faithful, but I also want to point out that it was just a matter of opinion that you could immediately find that the contribution of certain officers was not much because they, and it's been happening today, not wanting much change. It's an old story and a new one. That's an opinion and a approach, and we'll respect it. I have often found meetings for this constitution comment that this is the way we were involved and that we were not supporting the other ones and these developments, whether they refer to a new constitution or another. I'd like to draw attention to the fact that Correction has a clear policy in this regard. Only last time at our district convention the other day was that we wanted to reevaluate the Constitution, in line with that. The proposals of a consultant, as well as the changes that have taken place since then, will be considered. The group has regularly been informed of how this work has taken place. Nevertheless, and I would like to draw it out, there are conflicting opinions within the category regarding the position on the change in constitution. It is especially influenced by the fact that we always experience, as made very clear by the prefect of the Independence Party once before, a transponder fence against all changes that involve a real resource principle that activates national property. I'll go over it later. I strongly supported VG's chairman in this work, and it was nice to be part of it, but by the end, you realized that it was beginning to be more about how the government groups could come out of this work than about our forming with a resource problem that would activate national property. It's not enough putting in the word national property, it's gotta have some substance. As it is now, it doesn't matter by the current law, I'll come to that later too. In this great work, and something has been over it, a milestone with the projects, and it was just a rather difficult, respectable president, to take a stand on which cases to wait and who should not. They needed leaders to set their priorities and to think about their overall picture and vision. My vision, and that I also hold with VG's chairman, was that after two terms the Senate would have reviewed the constitution, taking into account various viewpoints, not necessarily changed everything, but considered these criteria. I mentioned earlier my virgin talk. It touched the balance of votes. It's always been a big heart thing to me, and I remember that I jumped up at my time, without realizing that there was a virgin, it was just a brief remark, because it's not right when the force of a vote depends on where people live in the country. I understand that wood needs to be added and to counteract the injustices of the country's settlements, but that cannot be done on the basis of a conflicting decision. We do so in another way. I'm sorry that I've passed high for 21 years, and nothing has changed in this regard. So it was difficult for me to agree that this enormous princely affair would be proposed for an equal measure of votes, one man one vote, until the next term. Instead, I saw that we were going to a great deal of work on resource regulations, changing and sharpening the Presidency and implementation section, but notably giving a clear expediency law as well as the provision of national regulations that were important, as it were. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson earlier. To him, this is the primary provision. But what happened? Soon after an agreement made that the separation of work was completely clear that the government groups as well as the Central Party had no interest in exodus. Of course, I began to have two masks when the national law also went out, and then the law received the change, which was especially the Union and the Pirastans put on great emphasis, not on discussion. What really came up for discussion and coverage was something we could accept and be brief, and I hear it in the talks of most speakers, such as the regulations on the Icelandic language, normal language and other regulations, and the resource regulations that hold the conventions together and will not change anything. Although you have some experience in politics, I was always deep inside, and it may be simple by my side, hoping that we would see the real change in practice, a change in approach that involves that the person who led the Constitution would have real power to work across government and government. Not always to seek the blessing of someone with whom the other members of the government could accept. Rather, we would be trying to achieve a broad solidarity, as it were. It was just that adjustments should be made in some matters. If the matter was not settled, there would be at least a wide agreement. It has been found that it is not. The stone took a little off when we went ahead with the reasoning survey. I'm not going to criticize her, I supported her, and I didn't think it was right what I heard earlier today when the methodology was being criticized and I asked if anyone was a friend to the prime minister or inside the left green. I'm going to point out that this work was done well, and it can be done for a very useful purpose, and it would have a clear desire for the public. We were trying to make public effort. There's a lot of interesting things happening, including about the equal value of votes. The more people entered it, the more supported it became to form in the country, when they realized what was going on. However, although both expedient and leviatory terms had been handed down, even in spite of the rich desire of the public to accept it, it was not a matter of taking in the balance of votes. As part of the day's talks, I realize that the issue is not top priority. I'm even saying that. Because the head of the Independence Party discussed a number of issues here and drew attention to the situation. ... tothegoldtranslation. Yes, there's a lot of debate over the fiasco, he wants to have more ideals, but I've been more inclined in the past to have the country alone of the districts and once for all the equally important votes. Never, though, did he consider it to be an equal measure of speech that is so important. But at the same time, I'd like to rejoice that within the Independence Party, there are voices that have begun discussing that smell. The reasoning survey brought out this will, the same as the president then used to argue that it was good for people to be opposed to the national judgment that I also welcome, and used to promote their case when discussing the chapter of the president. It had nothing to do with what was a clear guide to us presidents, taking into account the balance of votes. This is one of the things I see to make Upstate, and I promise we'll finish in the next term. We have to promise that we will continue with the work being done and that we will get it done. I hope to the highest. The prime minister and director of VG agree with me that what we did not finish now will be finished in the next term. Otherwise, it is always this way that eventually it is the Independence Party or Annuity that controls everything when it comes to the constitution. I would like to underscore that there are some opinions about how we should change the constitution. I've been, as I said before, more towards the steps and methodology that have been proposed, that the council do so and take time, but try to see exactly what has been done. It would be a good idea to look to the government board, to the national law, to national meetings, then to work then, and to try to make good use of the poll. I think it's a wise approach, but it can't happen at this point that we can't go any further. It's unannounced. This is something we owe the people. The head of the left green has repeatedly said that we owe the community to finish it. Yeah, we owe the community to finish, including. These changes, as well as doing so with dignity, are not to sell to the nation something that is not to be sold as the resource arrangement. I'm gonna spend most of the time, natural, on a resource policy because it's the biggest case and I want people to start any alarm bell when they think about it and think about what's really selling it, but I'd like to guess it, too, and I'd like to stress that I volunteered to be on Icelandic bill only natural. I shared in building that law on the meetings. As with the Environment Programme and the Presidential chapter, I have a case I declared to the chairman of the VG that I was ready, and restoration would be ready, trying to achieve the highest solidarity of them and hopefully get more groups to do it. I'm glad to hear that people are ready to examine them more and more. For the President's section, there are things to consider, but there are also things that I think are a cause for rejoicing. We see that charges are being handled against the minister, when it comes to prosecuting a cabinet officer, and accepting the minister's responsibility. I agree with the comments that have come here that we need only to shape what the rest will be, what laws must be changed, and how. But there's an important step. I believe that time limit should be placed in the office of the President of Iceland. Whether it's 12 years or 16 years, it's not a big deal, but I don't think it's in accordance with normal democracy rules that we have that much space. Although the office has little authority in many places, it is dramatic, and I believe it is important that we see the possibility of renewal every few years. I find the proposal made by the chairman of the VG. We talked about it, and that was one of the things we had fun conversations about. I believe it is important for the council to have the space needed to evaluate it and to cover it. I think it's very important that the environment should be agreed. I think it's urgent that the environmental directives as it seems to be here today get a good review here at the council, but it's urgent that we accept it in a way that explains what the will of the Council is for the environment and nature of Iceland. That's important to me, and will, to the changer, to do my job to support it. But here's a catch, and it's that in this bill, there's a resource principle that I say is extremely dangerous, just the way it is right now. No one is surprised after all of this, and it says a little bit about this arrangement, the knowledgeer of the spirit, and who has participated in discussions with the Independence Party on the Constitution, that if this is a law that the Independence Party agrees with, and the forward party may not only be left green but also the Middle Party, a certain story is being made. It tells of the fact that nothing is being changed. 1st par. The fishing law is what it is, and this law does nothing more than that. As a result, the National Institute of Law for the University of Iceland tells us exactly that nothing here is being changed, not anything. This means that there is still much uncertainty about the time limit for those who have our resources, whether it is fishing the resource or other resources. And why is it that we make time and make deals? That's what we're supposed to do, make deals with the resources, as the head of the advance party suggested in its time, temporary negotiations, but it now seems to have fallen from that idea. We're here to establish agreements on the resources, and that's not the exception of the fishing route. This law sets out the separating of the sea resources. The fish - fishing system is being developed by a special resource directive. Our proposal is not to overthrow the fishing system, surely not. My proposal for the change in resource policy simply means that a constitution should include temporary negotiations. It's not about the duration. It's the Lawgiver's decision to make the duration. Are the contracts made to 15, 20, or 25? It's just that it's in a constitution that the legislature, for the Commission, is not allowed to deliver resources except by temporary contracts. Despite the water cover and despite the environment of the 1st. Fish - control laws are still quite uncertain about the time limit. It's a good thing to mark the chairman of the Council's Professional Board, huh? paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, here at the council, that this was all the worst case of all the time when there was a fishing case and who could provide such information. Then she even said. that the fishing rights would move from generation to generation to generation, underlining them their approach and the rest of the section here at the council that, in their view, is an untimely national property. I've had no answers to anything other than a discount, no clear answers, no clear answers but that this is very clear in the mind of VG's chairman. She and the head of the Independence Party have held both talks today, but they are not ready to make those clear words, temporary contracts, in the constitution, so that there is no doubt about the national rights of the nation, that we really do the national property, but we don't have show and show. If we owe our community anything, it is to speak clearly, to say that we are not going to hand clearances to resource use, wherever they are, to unlimited time, just not at all. Why, then, is that not to be said clearly in the law itself? It's not enough for me that the chairman of the VG says so in the past in his speech or that it is on page. 37 of the report by the bill that this includes the temporary use of material that needs to be stated or stated. If that is the point, why is that not just part of the article? What are they afraid of? I would like to remind you that the resource manager who worked in 2000, led by Jóhannes Nordalur, made a very clear suggestion on how to ensure the nation's real share of resources. She realized that she was 1st. The 1991 fishing policy did not provide sufficient resources for the nation's share. It took on all resources, and it was very clear that they should be temporary or in advance. It was also clear what laws would have to be changed. Iceland's School of Law and Prime Minister and VG president have repeatedly said that this is just not going to change anything. Who's being fooled? Why aren't things really said? This is very serious, but at the same time, I'd like to say we're in 1st. on the matter at the council, and I'm still going to allow myself to hope that we will have a change of practice and approach. Let us not again allow the Independence Party to control how the resource directives will be in our country and get real active national property into the resource directive. My motion is based on the proposal of the prime minister and is my efforts to achieve some agreement on the resource. But it is not possible to give a discount in my opinion not to activate national property, and it is not possible to include beautiful words into a constitution and to say that it is really important to say that it is in a constitution when everyone says it's not going to change anything. Is that politics? Yeah, it's political, you know, hard-core politics. Does the political bitch want a round of the fishing system? No, not at all. That's outbacks. However, it is good to perceive the approach of the Independence Party, and now the governments, in this constitution, in the resource business. Once again, it is being molded, someone recognizes it, a special rule for the seabed. They will answer why the fishing route, one industry, one resource analysis, should be free of temporary negotiations. We need to activate the national property. This law does not. Time binding is a general rule of law in Iceland. The seabed is the exception. This route protects the fishing road, not defends the nation. It doesn't activate national property. That's very clear in the Law Department. It doesn't change anything. The commitment time should be in my opinion and ours in Resurrection taking into account all resources. Therefore, I do not suggest that the season of innovation be set in the constitution. It's a lawgiver's decision, like, for example. the current maximum. A secretary of transportation at that time, as a minister of the sea, made a suggestion that included a series of temporary agreements, 8 and 15 years of age, may remind me that it was, in total, up to 23 years. It was a time tie. There was a way. The left green must explain to me and the people what changed in 2017. In 2017, including in the committee that I appointed at the time as minister of the sea, it was clear that the left green wanted a time tie. They even managed to do so. Accept the season-separated bill of the Frustration Party. What changed? Yes, the left green went to the government with the Independence Party, and everything changed. It's funny, but it shouldn't be surprising when you've seen all the evolution and career in this. The richest committee of the year 2000 gave clear guidance. It's not being followed here. The route that's gone here is something completely different than setting up national property. It's such a big deal, it's so serious behind this and this criticism and approach. I beg to make a very careful examination, including the U.S. the way I'm suggesting, to make it clear, as the report says, that we time the rights, put it in the article to ensure real national property. I can say with the highest. The prime minister and president of VG agreed with the approach that ultimately it is the Council that determines how we will receive a full or normal amount. Our way in return is to talk about marketing, since we thus believe that the nation will receive the wisest, the naturalst, and the greatest price. But there's something we can handle in here. I'm not suggesting that it be placed in a constitution. First and foremost, there will be a currency and the lawgiver will eventually indicate it. I'm looking at time ties first and foremost. The Constitution does not deserve this discussion. That's what I said. The prime minister a few days ago, and I agree. I agree that the Constitution deserves better treatment. She also deserves to be honest with us and to say things. If this is to keep the board together and the board of administration together, that's fine. If you're not going to change anything, say it too. If not to rely on national property, it is the most honest thing to say. The Constitution deserves it, the people deserve it. We even saw it. in the United States, when former president, Trump, began to appoint a successor of Ruth Ginsburg, the Supreme Court judge, that his decision to restore his ways and extreme views into the court will affect his rights for the next few decades. That's why it's so serious here when we're confronted with these changes, it's not a change that's going to run very short, but for decades if it's approved after the next election. A respectable president. I'm just getting started, actually, but I see there's a minute left. The damage this proposal for the Chairman of the Left Green is damage that will survive with future generations. This product, this bill, answers in black to white that these three groups, possibly with the support of the Central Party, will continue cooperation after election. There's no doubt about it. More is needed after the next election, and it must be agreed to have this passive constitution. So this is also a declaration that these groups will continue to do so in order to complete this precise case because it needs to be approved by the council. The result is that the sea resources will remain in the possession and custody of the few, on the grounds of which, not the nation. If so, it will ultimately be the true evil heritage of this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u111	President. I'm just gonna be honest with you and tell you that I'm really thinking about what I'm talking about. Senator. I thought it started off well. She said that we should be committed to complete it in the next season, which was not now achieved as the balance of votes, which was, in fact, always a schedule for the next term at the highest level. Prime Minister, continue what did not run out now. But it ends up in some conspiracy theory that it is through the constitutions that the left movement oversupervises to link itself to the Independence Party to be with him in the government after the next election. What world lives anyway. A senator, a respectable president? That there are changes in the Iceland Constitution that can be reached by the Independence Party? Hv. A senator knows the Independence Party better than I do. I've never wore it the other way around. A senator. She well knows that this may not be the best time to get it from time to time. She may know more than I do about the inside of the Independence Party. But to put it at ease. There are other things that a senator does. Many things could be said about it and would be nice to talk about it during a moment. Board of Directors and Control Committee. But I'm just going to ask people not to talk as if it didn't make any difference to take a law today, which can be transformed by a simple more part at the Council, and put into a constitution, which we know is relatively difficult to change, that they don't allow themselves to speak as if it doesn't matter. That is when the laws of the law are in line with the rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u112	A respectable president. I understand why. A senator found it helpful to see how I started my talk. It's obvious he wants me to run the government. I just like to do it. During our restoration, we have endeavored to uphold the government when appropriate, but we criticize it when it is needed. We support good things, we stop bad things, we change bad things, and we try to influence them. And this case is one of the biggest and most effective cases of the government under the leadership of the left green, and it is the chairman of the left movement of the offer. There is no explanation why there is a corrosion of the policy of these activities in terms of time-separation regarding the activation of national property. Putting something in a constitution that doesn't change anything from the current law, who is being deceived? Why is the proposals of the resource committee not continued since 2000? In particular, by the year 2000, the Committee for Resources realized that 1st. The fishing laws did not guarantee active national property. It would have to be done properly. The law would have to be changed. The fishing law would have to be made up of temporary contracts. Why should the sea bus alone resource analysis be free of temporary agreements when using the collective resource of the nation? Why? What kind of special care is this? We're talking about a huge prince thing. Doesn't make it any better. Senators are wondering if this is exactly what it takes - and I want to give you some encouragement. A senator to avail himself of his right to the administration and monitoring committee to oversee exactly this feature and what it will change to put temporary agreements into the constitution. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u113	President. We're talking about a huge deal. I was hoping we could start up over a very tired knot in the populist. Special care, the fact that prime minister contributes to this is a damage that will live with future generations, I wrote after the time. A senator earlier. Yeah, I'll be good at it. Board of Directors and Control Committee. I'm going to ask all the jurists involved in whether the law and the Constitution are equally valid, whether something in the law can be changed by a simple section of the Council is the same as what it says in the constitution that needs to go through the procedure needed to change the constitution and whether that understanding is correct. A senator is correct, as shown in her case, that all jurists say it didn't change anything. I'll allow me to question him, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u114	A respectable president. The University of Iceland says this doesn't make any difference. This doesn't make any difference, it only validates the right and is being brought in the understanding of Article 1. The fishing law. This doesn't change anything. No other legal adjustments are being made, as the resource committee suggested in their time, in order to secure the nation's rights. That's not what they're doing. I tried all this time, and the way I worked, even the way I worked, I realized that. in that I was ready to spend three matters with Prime Minister and Director VG. I was the only president who ever declared it. Is that a sign of an indiscriminate approach? Afterwards, I guess. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Secretary of transportation, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, I was the only president in a government opposition that declared it. Is that a sign of an indiscriminate approach? But I resist threats to the right of the people to have a real custody of their own resources. I'm afraid they're doing it with these suggestions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u115	Mr. President. One, I'm going to mention it to the other. paritaprevir Of course, the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter needs to realize that this is not a government bill or a government case or something like that. She knows the natural history better than I do, and she knows it isn't. The other thing I'd like to mention and ask her to answer, because I'm just trying to figure out some aspects of her language, and that is if she could just briefly tell me what it is in the present constitution that prevents the ideas of changing the fishing system.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u116	A respectable president. This is a state of Congress, and I think that's why. A senator, if he has observed and I know that he has observed the discussions today, realized that the scheme was, of course, to make the most of it. If not, the issue would be presented in broad solidarity. It was then gone by uniting matters when it became clear that there may be more transporters than the president of the VG has a number of issues. We also see it and we're squeezing it out, which naturally says a little bit about the whole thing, and we'll certainly get it out now--I know that the head of the Action Party supports the case as it is now--and then we've got it out here today that it's the management parties that support the resource principle. Is that surprising? Is this methodology surprising? No, just not. It's just not surprising that this is the way that connects the board of directors. What is surprising, though, is that two of the three members of the board actually have a lengthy view of time tie, not trusting to make it clear in this arrangement. Then there are these indignities, with all due respect. Ármannsson But I also heard from the chairman of the Independence Party that this is a way for the restoration to change the fishing system. Not at all. This is the way to trust the right of the nation. We've been quite a spokesman for saying goodbye. We want another way and trust the market to determine the price. It is up to the Lawgiver to decide which methods are used to collect expenses. It's just the politics. But we're underlining the national rights of the resources and we're saying: "We don't deliver any of the resources owned by the nation without making temporary contracts. [[The president calls.]] No resources of the nation go to others or to any uncertainty of the time, although they can be called in after some X year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u117	Mr. President. I see why. A senator would agree that there is nothing in the current constitution to prevent any of the ideas being carried out that might have been altered by the fishing system or collected fishing fees or other such. To make these changes as a matter of course. Hence, a senator may speak about the need not to change his constitution. That's my correct understanding of the court. A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u118	A respectable president. It's all right. A senator has established this because I might in some way be more calm with the law, especially with the price, if our government groups hadn't retraced our proposals in Reunion, and from the Piranha and the Conspiracy, to settle agreements. It's been cut down. There is no desire in the administration categories to establish that law. While it is not done and during this process of making a suggestion, no law is changed at the same time, it weakens the people's rights. It does not activate the nation's right to the property of the resource. They're not going all the way. That's why I'm asking again, "Who's been fooled?" Why this acting thing? I don't think it's a good taste. [[The president calls.]] People are supposed to be honest. We're supposed to say clearly: We don't deliver the nation's resources except by contracts and they have to be temporary.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u119	President. Now that the director of the constitution and 2012 were chosen to establish a new constitution with a bill that was behind it. There was a text that amounted to a modest amount of time. Change of plans. A senator is spoken of as a natural reward for temporary privileges. But what is added, both in the process of change. A senator and a bill at the highest. Prime Minister, I find it interesting. That's a very grammatical criticism of the ultimate price. They're trying to absorb all the resources, the solar energy, the air, anything. We're going to try to expand it as a normal price and try to arrange it for the better, - the excuse, Mr. President - can set it in and adapt it to us for different resources. However, when we add the words "improved, " what is the basis for making this distinction? Of course, if the use of money is profitable, we will want a sufficient price to pay on temporary documents for it. All the others can be under these usual conditions for the use and community use and whatever it is. But as soon as governments decide that the use of money is a profit, they should naturally want to obtain the full price for it for a limited amount of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u120	A respectable president. It may never be wise when the senators begin to negotiate first with themselves and approach a compromise. My suggestion is a little bit to try to make peace with the highest proposal. Minister and Chairman of the Left Green. I made the adjustment, from then on. What does this mean when it comes to a natural currency or when it is passed by a president of the VG? In the end, it is always the council to decide. It's up to the Senate to decide. It's just like what I'm talking about, which is the key to this, that we need to set up contracts and say in the constitution that we need temporary contracts. It is then the Lawgiver's decision on how long the contracts should be made. They could be shorter or longer on the fishing road, but longer in terms of the use of other natural resources; energy, etc., today. When talking about currency in this case, it is not being directed to the sea surface alone, but to reach all the resources. That's key, too. I think it's important, and it's my thinking, and it's always been in this approach that eventually it's very difficult to put everything into the constitution. It is simply the Lawgiver's appreciation. The Constitution, on the other hand, indicates that a tax will be paid, and especially when using it for profit.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u121	President. That's why I mentioned the national law that sets in the fundamental will to have a minimum amount of time. Since they are the chairman of the Constitution, they frame the authority given by the council to set these things in one way or another. The current grammatical evidence is that the total cost cannot apply to all resources. Then you try to adjust it by saying "Volphy." However, when we add the word "gay, " we have resources that the government decides should make a profit. Fishing resources are to be run with resources that provide benefits for those using it; hence, it would mean total expenditures and resource costs, while heat reserves or something like that are being run only for social purposes, and it would not be decided to go into business using such resources. [[The president calls.]] That would be the difference. If we were to just add this, we could have a reasonable amount of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u122	A respectable president. I can totally understand this approach. Senator. Nevertheless, it is true that whether there was a total fee, a natural fee, or a way of serving as prime minister, it is always at the end of the council. Regarding the provision adopted in the 2012 National Code, which is now submitted, including the 2012 Convention. Of the Piranha and the Conspiracy, there is much more in all that law, as with the removal of all the warrants. I think there's something that would threaten the fish fishing system, especially in the miniboat system that is counting heavily on mortgages like the big system. So I come back to see if you've already made a deal with yourself before this is stated: I'm trying to figure out the approach we can make and then trust in the rights of the people, but I don't just trust the right thing, as the government class does in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u123	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a bill for a constitution. In itself, I could give a short talk and express my appreciation for the suggestions presented here, but I'm going to consider some of the reasons. Of course, it tells itself that a part of these suggestions, i.e. A new article on the protection of the 22nd sector. will be new 71. The responsibility for protecting nature and environment is somewhat similar to the bill I presented as prime minister in 2016. The source principle, which is also new, and I think it's very important to come in here, is not very different from that bill. On the other hand, I'd like to state that after the work we've been through during this terms, it's gotten much clearer. The text has improved so much as the constitution. The discussion will help us to distinguish between the traditional legal products, or constitution, and the text behind them. I must also say that in general the Constitution is simply forbidden to be treated lightly. Avoiding changes in the constitution of light language is also something I don't like, and I'll only admit that more people agree with me on that. This section of the bill also presented me at the time when as prime minister, I presented a change in constitution. Because of the discussion here, not much today, but around it, both in the media and in the individual members of Congress, my purpose was to contribute the bill after a lot of work, of course, to hope that the council could handle this project and complete it. Of course, the exact same thing applies to the highest bill. Prime Minister, this Senate bill she presents. Of course it is. Ministers not to make that effort just to show off the job. The purpose is to disrupt the position of variation to the constitution. For a very long time I've been a spokesman to do it this way, to cross a specific chapter, to give us time to do it and to finish it. I have even. I believe, as examples from Norway, that I believe, three terms of making plans through the constitution and changing and changing, or not changing, and taking care of the time and working together. I've been a spokesman for such changes. I'm against revolution. It's not surprising, I'm the head of the Congress Party. We want slow changes. At times, they must be radical to advance the change, but we are opposed to revolution. We're against experimental activities when it comes to constitution. That's why there were so many original proposals at the time that I felt bad. In one place, the model said that the perfect control system that we wanted was the North countries. Then they were just going to build something completely different, some unique phenomenon that came up with the idea of making an attempt to do it. I disagreed. Fortunately, some of these were corrected by the council's work at the time, but it was based on experimental activity that had nothing to do with the constitution that I think was necessary. That's why I have to say, just as it is, the work force is at the highest level. During this ideal period, prime minister has set out to define certain things that we are going through, even though we have missed them all - in my mind, there is nothing that will happen if we do not get them in two terms. You can have three terms, just if we're to shoulder the responsibility to discuss the perfunctory matters here in the council hall. I'd like to argue that, to a large extent, the discussion is subject to what I've heard today, at the conclusion of the matter, and then introduce the case to the Parliament's committee with the goal that we finish this, with the goal that we will vote and then accept the suggestions that the council will finally agree and change the constitution. I think there's a call in the community that we do, and the journey we're on is something that I'm doing just fine at, after 25 meetings that I think I've been sitting at the very best because we've just done it quite well with experts who came from the Ministry of Presidency and experts in this field from the college community. They have certainly helped us to gain insight into certain things, to make adjustments, to review the entire chapters, and to discuss this thoroughly. I have to say, just as it is, I'm going to do a lot of good with the way we did it. I like that we've come to where we've come from. I could in itself say that I can totally accept that the change in 22 articles will be the result, like the change in II. section of the Constitution on President and Commission. We have got experts in that field to give special consideration to him and to make specific adjustments, to get others to read it, to take the discussion personally among us, and then to be convinced that what we are trying to achieve is, not making great changes, but, above all, modern - day things. For instance, one expert, a former president, approached us and warned me that even if we changed little, even extraordinary, words, we could change the operations of the Constitution. I think we've been a bit careful not to. We have tried as hard as possible to cope with this task. And I think it's just fine. I've mentioned the environmental principle. That is very similar to the law I set forth as prime minister in the fall of 2016. Although I could certainly discuss whether it's absolutely necessary or whether I'd like to say it exactly like this if I hired alone, I can totally cut myself off with it as part of a larger unit, especially as it rhymes that my knowledge is very good with a new resource principle that I give a tremendous stress that we can get together to finish. How important that is! I've heard the discussion about it here today, on the one hand from the president of the United States and the chairman of the Convention, in which market fees and auction arrangements are actually the means by which these groups have proposed, they are always talking about the seafood resource in its own time. I have to say that several other countries have gone this way, and many of them are the world's greatest right states, pure capitalists, who have tried this route or Communist lands that favor such activity. What is the combination of these two factors? Yeah, it's rough. And another is marked by the ways in which these countries have gone: they all have stopped it. You see, she's ended up pretty bad. It has ended so that the largest of them became extremely large and tenacious in the market. That's the fact. So it can be said: Well, there are other ways to do so. Yeah, I'm sure it's possible. But this is the experience, and these are the guys talking up. It's just as rude. I don't agree with that. I agree, however, that the forward route, a bill I worked for as a seafaring minister in my day, could answer a great many of the questions and concerns that have been raised here. And I'm going to claim it here, my dear. A senator and chairman of the project I look at in the hall, that the law here would strengthen such a law because there is no provision today. I'm going to say so, quite contrary to the debate. A senator and president of the Forest for show-off. I have to say, as it is, that I felt as if I were in a play and I was putting on the stage some things. Because I don't think so. It is, in fact, when I read Icelandic crystal crystal complete in my mind what is in this new law. And it is better than the provision I made as prime minister in the fall of 2016. That's better. It would clearly prepare the journey I was on, and my candidates and I have talked about in our fishing policy. No question. I'm not gonna have many words about the third new change, i.e. about the English language. Somehow, I find it so default and normal that there is a law on a language spoken by so few who have so much pressure to attend are in a constitution. I don't think I have to argue with that. Of course, I support that law. I'd like to have a few words about the Presidential chapter and maybe a little bit more on the resource principle. But I'd like to say that I found it interesting an attempt to go to the community council for this argument analysis. I was particularly interested in the results of the meeting. There were 233 there, but there were 300, which is pretty good. Granted, randomness was chosen, but it was ensured that the distribution would be equal over the whole of Iceland, equal to gender, depending on age and such factors. What happened was that there was a group with differing opinions and certainly had a different knowledge of the topic. They were surveyed, then obtained specialists at the meeting, discussed, and again surveyed. I felt that the overall outcome for this project was that the one part of the chosen nation, along with good results, was more cautious than we, and especially more cautious, than those who want to make a very serious change in the constitution. This group wanted to be more careful about changing than we were working on. They even went so far as to be conservative in some instances. I was interested in this because we are faced with a constant propaganda that if we don't adopt a new constitution as a certain group of people, we are betraying the nation. There was another group, between 200 and 300, who gave their opinion straight away and it was another. She was about to support what I've saved, that we should be careful, that we should associate with the changes in the constitution with caution, not lightly, with caution. I feel like we're doing it in this respect, but still, we're taking a very important step. Let me give you an example from the above - mentioned reasoning survey. On page 18. 8 The bill shows that in the survey it is an outstanding view that the definition of the constitution needs to be simple and clear. That's what we were trying to do. Hv. A senator and head of the group said that she just didn't understand what was going on in this article, that it could be understood at least, especially about what the president should do. I think there's something we can agree with. We were trying to make changes without changing the clockwork into the constitution, and I think it matters too. The survey carried a prominent view that needs to be simplified and explained, especially with regard to the President's real authority. However, it was strongly felt that the president should represent the entire nation and be over traditional politics and that the role of the president would remain the same from today's. That's what this group said. This is quite different from the ideas presented in a government body that wanted to put this office down. I think we've met a little bit. I'm going to mention, though, that it is suggested that the President's terms be extended from four years to six and that the president can sit for two terms, or 12 years continuously. I'm not sure that's exactly true. But I'm also saying that it's wise to have some kind of time connection. But should it be three times four years, or, as I mentioned, perhaps because I am a candidate, five years, and then be three times five years or 15 years? It would be to meet those who were wondering if this should be three times six years or so. These are things we have to talk about. The reason why time commitment may be primarily that it is not desirable for humans to sit indefinitely. On the other hand, everyone recognizes that our presidency is more honorable than position of power, so time may be less needed. It's also a topic speech that I think is normal to take here in the audience. I find the change of priorities interesting to make sure that the president has more behind his terms. I've wondered if that's exactly right. Of course, this is based on experience with earlier elections. You can see that some would not necessarily have become presidents if such a law had existed at the time. Then you wonder: " Is it good for the future? We need to discuss this material in order to find the right way. I feel that we have achieved quite well the general conclusion of the community council. As a result, I disagree with those who say that we have not listened to it. I'm telling you, we've taken it into our bones a little bit that this group is asking us to change more slowly and less. But there are revolutions. There are three new layers, and in fact, a long time ago there have been ideas of entering the constitution of laws on nature, environment, and resources. These changes have been accomplished from time to time in recent years. I'm going to end up having a few words about the resource principle that I think is extremely important. Just for those of you who've been listening here tonight, I'm going to let me read it because I'm not sure anyone's heard it. Here's the suggestion, with President's permission: Iceland's natural resources are part of the Icelandic nation. - Isn't that clear? - They are to be used in a sustainable way to benefit the entire population. - Isn't that clear? ◯ [[Foreground on: No.]] The State has control and management of the treatment and use of the resources. (7) - Isn't that clear, too? ◯ Natural resources and land rights not dependent on private rights are national property. - I'm just coming on to it because it's where we're dealing with terms I'm not sure everyone's got on rhythms. But this is quite clear. No one can get these quality or rights directly related to them for possession or permanent use. - Very clear. ▪ The laws of the legislature and the executives take custody of them in the hands of the people. No one can get these quality or rights linked to them for their possession or permanent use. What does that mean? I think it's clear. That means no one can have it forever. In other words, it is temporary. Do we need two sentences on the same object? I think it's a way out of the way and poise to make an issue about this. That's my food. ▪ Renewables for the use of natural resources and national rights belonging to national property or owned by the Icelandic state shall be based on law and should be balanced and transparent. - Isn't that what we're trying to do in this room every day? And if we fail, we can be chosen away every four years, at the latest, sometimes sooner. It should be prescribed by the law to provide the means to make a profit-exploitation wage. - It's only been discussed here. Is the world black or white? No, he's not, he's more and less gray. Is their resources black and white? No, it's not. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. It's not black or white, it's more or less gray. That's why I feel that this law is clear to me. This takes into account all the factors we have considered. I have to say exactly as it is, my conclusion again is that although we do not agree precisely in this work, we in general have to come together with acceptable suggestions, are fine as the constitution, have quality in text and explanations, including in a report that makes it difficult for me to relate to the constitution in another way. On page 18. 30 discusses the unique characteristics of the national right. It's an identity. It is stated that no one can get the benefits considered national property or rights associated with them for possession or permanent use. This, by permission of the President, allows other people to have a direct possession rights, e.g. For tradition. As a result, selling the resources or national rights is forbidden, and for the same reason, this quality will not be mortgaged. At the same time, it would require temporary or divulgeable documentation. These points will be considered in a future article. And now I ask those who listen, including those outside this hall: Do you not understand this, so that these are temporary rights? They're forbidden to be mortgaged, and no one can own them, and they're national property. Isn't that the way it is? That's how I understand it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u124	No. The head of the Independence Party said...
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u125	That's how I understand it. On the bottom of the list. 30 and 31 are then listed as very few resources. There are a lot more of them because resources are not black or white and the usefulness of them is not black or white. It's much more and less gray. These are the peoples' committees for the first matter. Because we've also talked a lot about a central nation park and the importance of the nation's experience that it does not seem enough to be in the state fast, as it are, I'm just saying that with this new resource directive, we're going to be strengthening the country's population to be a national property. Perhaps it would be enough for some to feel that way, and then there would be no need to go further on that subject. Maybe, I just rolled it up. At any rate, this new resource directive is the most important thing we're doing here. It is most important to install it in a new constitution, or as a change and a new arrangement in the constitution, because it matters. It will strengthen what many want to do, but it will not overthrow society. You're right next door. Senator, Chairman of the Reprehension. As far as I could tell, the person was not aware that even a new constitution would be desirable to overthrow something or anything. Just before I finish my case, I'm going to say something about national pay and reasoning. As Prime Minister 2016, I presented a bill, just as the current prime minister puts these regulations and the national votes, they are not inside. That was because in our group, and indeed I'm not gonna put myself in that group, some wanted to keep the thresholds much lower and that there would be much fewer to participate and fewer to agree. The reasoning poll on national pay was totally on the other side, absolutely. The participants wanted to have very high thresholds and insisted that there were more things, if I remember correctly, I don't have this in front of me. In other words, that may be the reason. Then the Venice Committee came and said it was impossible if we went that way. Then it was set aside. Is that something terrible? No, it's not terrible. We can only record that next time if we agree that it's wise to change the constitution to such a rhythm, to take time and make good time as I think it would be. The prime minister has done his work, and with the heads of the classes, we have worked hard to do this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u126	A respectable president. There's a lot of things that cry about this, but part of our work here is about making a certain sense, that things are explained. That's what I tried to talk about in answer to what happened. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. When governments decide to use a certain resource for profit, we've destroyed the grays they're talking about here. It has become very clear that with that resource, the restrictions have been set aside for a moderate period of time, laid at the root of a board of administration, approved in a national law. Now it was the highest. Ministers are concerned that there would have to be some opposition to revolutions and anti-testation activities, etc. But this can be done over a long period of time. That was first started in 2009, 12 years ago. Then there are four terms, many of which have varied. There's already been a lot of work to be done on this project, and there's nothing unexpected in the administration board's bill. 80% of the current constitution is in that bill. It is very easy to review that list and explain why certain things are no longer there. The new things, most of what is added, are elements from constitutions around the world, where there is no experimental activity. No one has discussed at any point the need for this matter to be handled lightly. I can't wait to get to the top. Ministers say they approach the matter with care, but all others approach it lightly. It's not like that. We want to do it well. [[The president calls.]] But I'd like to ask the highest. Minister how he would want to handle this clear difference between a resource used for profit, which would be negotiated for a moderate amount of time at a cost, and a non-profit resource. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u127	A respectable president. Before answering that question, it is necessary to act on it. A senator said that since 2009 the Constitution had been under way and it had been 12 years. And what did I say in my speech? I said it would be wise to take smaller steps and finish them. But a pack of whales. A senator has said: "There is no way to change anything unless everything is subject to and based on the proposal of the administration. Party dog. The senator has basically said in recent years, and indeed more categories, including the United States: If not everything is subject to and based on the proposals of a government council, there is no way to agree to anything. And then are the groups that want to be careful? Now, again, I'm going to quote the reasoning survey, a group of people who came to be freely - free to - speak to a fellow associate minister of the north and are apparently full of some Scandinavian thoughts and apologize for that. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But the fact is that it is not just those who have wanted to be careful who have caused little change. It is no less that those requiring basic changes and that only their way is gone, which have prevented changes. So I'm going to throw it down. Senator. About a question why. The senator is simply such that although it is said that things should be, not socially, but for profit, for example. felt that the new resource and lawgiver would say that over the next 10 to 20 years, they will be giving those who are trying to exploit the resource and invest, saying that they are going to have a currency in accordance with it, and that would not be a total price. [[The president calls.]] The world isn't black or white. It's more and less gray.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u128	A respectable president. It's very interesting that we're trying to teach groups that want to conform to the results of a national fee on some of this, I think it's just a bit silly, because we're looking for a plan on how we're working from the nation, and when the result comes from a national bill, please submit an overall review on the Constitution, don't we do that? Should we do something else? I don't know what the bottom line is. Minister is trying to do this. I would also like to mention all these Communist countries and countries with a government far to the right that has gone an auction route. It was the Icelanders who recommended it, e.g. In Namibia, there should be a greeting. Although the Namibians did not do so, they did much more, much worse, but based on the current Icelandic route, with slightly more corruption between them than did the Icelanders recommend that the Namibians not go along the way that the Icelanders would take the quatane. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u129	A respectable president. Regarding the auction route, so I'll tell you what I was referring to, I think it was Chile, Russia, and Estonia that have tried these routes and all of them have fallen away from them, Estonia when it was a government state. That's why I was referring to it. Hv. A senator may know that the discrepancy in Chile is fairy tale and that it got worse. Therefore, men fell away from this and stopped, and this is not what is commonly used, so it is now quite clear. I know why. A senator and other members of the Pirata party are suing when you say that they prevented changes, which have so far said that nothing can be changed unless everything is changed on the basis of the methodology they want to use. Let me remind you that in August 2016, the new president took up office in this hall. In his introductory speech, he said that little steps in changing the constitution are also a victory, and I have heard Mr. President of the Republic later say so. I agree with him. I'm asking why. A senator: Does he agree?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u130	A respectable president. I'll agree with the highest. The secretary of transportation and the chairman of the advance party. The most important thing about all of this now is the resource directive. We can agree on many things. paritaprevir Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson has agreed on much in this constitution work, such as prime minister. On the other hand, I disagree with the approach shown on the bill. I'm not suggesting a basic change in the case. I am, however, making three adjustments, which are the passwords for the Icelandic nation. I suggest that the word will be taken out of the way and inserted untimely, that resources will not be allowed to be delivered for non-term use. I stress that hearing not only gave me hope but also gave me hope. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. A secretary of transportation, president of these administrations, says: "We're talking about temporary negotiations. Fine. So let's just do it conclusively in the itself of the law, but not in this pine and finery that's here. In contrast, the head of the Independence Party spoke very clearly. He doesn't want any temporary contracts. Then you ask yourself, " Wait, the executives of the advance and the WG say it's really a temporary deal. ' Then comes the head of the Independence Party and says: "No, it's not like that. Who's in charge here? Should I believe that another time, the government has tied its religion to the Independence Party? The head of the Agency itself provided a bill for contracts in its own time. He did. And so I ask: Why don't we give the council the opportunity, the tools, and the space to do exactly that in order to settle this enormously important matter, that the resources are really owned by the nation, and the national property are active, not inactive, as the prime minister and head of the left green says.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u131	Mr. President. We're gonna go for a second. A senator, chairman of the Forest, disagrees about the interpretation of Icelandic English. I think this article is very clear. I read both the article earlier in my talk as well as what it means, i.e. The uniqueness of this national rights and what is being said in this article. And then I repeat it: As a result, selling the resources or national rights is forbidden, and for the same reason, this quality will not be mortgaged. - Isn't that important? - At the same time, it's got to be temporary or indistinguishable. That is what the article says. What Should You Believe? asks why. Senator. This reminds me of a story far out in a country where older couples lived, and when visitors came, they both spoke in a race, and eventually both of them gagged, saying that it was the woman: " Don't listen to him, listen to me. ' Maybe that's what I'm saying here. I think it's so crystal clear, that text. I think he's bossy. I think he rhymes with something else in the constitution. He says: You can't give, you can't book it, you can't have it, and these rights are both temporary and inexplicable. I don't think it's clear to me. So I support this text as it is and state that it, as it appears, would support bills on temporary use of any resource.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u132	A respectable president. Then let's make it clear. And well to mark, I'd be willing to believe this if it wasn't so that the government groups have repeated during this terms suggested making contracts. We were not making disagreements about how to collect fish fees. We didn't drag into that auction or market route or the way of the government, but we made a pact of that. All right, we're not going to make a disagreement about the resource costs this time, but we're going to get temporary contracts because in the sea soil, we're going to have a temporary agreement for the private use of the resource as in other resources of the Icelandic nation. Naturally, and if anyone wants to, you're lying to me to ask yourself if you shouldn't have all the protection when the Independence Party, Progress, Left Green, and the Middle Party are on one and the same boat when it comes to the provision of resources. Therefore, we have provided proposals to trust and secure active national property, not passively, as the government groups wish.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u133	A respectable president. I have to say exactly as it is, that this is exactly what I was talking about when I actually sent the debate about virtualness back to the head of the chairman of the convention, with all due respect, when it is said that this is the case with active or passive regulations and, on the other hand, that there is a tremendous threat. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u134	It is.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u135	It's not. The law that I read earlier is very clear in Icelandic, in good Constitution, the text is good, and the explanation is very good. [[Up front.]] Then I have to say that I didn't hear the chairman of the Middle Party say that he liked it. I may well have heard wrong. Sometimes it's happened that I don't understand everything that comes from there. But I don't like it. A senator says, "If I'm not gone, there's no way to go. " And that's the same thing when I talked to him. Pirata's senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u136	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister Ingi Jóhannsson won his speech, and not only to him, but also to all of us who were zealous and clever in this group. I, who does not have much congregational experience and was apparently soaked behind my ears, had full faith that we were talking about what we were doing, but soon the hook turned in a different direction. V.E.G. A minister speaks of the great clarity shown in the b-join of this new article, which will be 80 p.m. He repeatedly speaks of natural resources belonging to the Icelandic nation. This is clear. I'll admit it. This is great. But with what result? When and if we hope to secure this new arrangement, which is a turning point for us - because there are truly a lot of good things that are stated here, and I will be more likely to review it in my speech - if so. Minister that it will not simply apply retrospectively according to the situation e.g. is there now a problem with the resource problem presented in the fish - fishing system in the general law? Or this will have no effect on those who have been holding the sea resources for decades and who have used it as if it belonged to them, have sold it and rented it, all the characteristics of the 72nd par. the constitution of property rights? Tells you the highest. Ministers that this is clear, and it's set, and great regulations that it will even rule out the principle that a retrospective law code is forbidden?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u137	A respectable president. If I understood a question, why? A member of the council was just about whether it would be possible to supersede Article one. Fishing for the Management Board.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u138	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u139	Then I've misunderstood. A senator. But otherwise, I'm going to say that there is no question in my mind that this law will be very supportive of the provision of the fishing law. And I'm also going to say that if we're going again and again just to focus on the fishing resource, most people will admit that if not nearly everyone today is temporary rights that can be taken care of by temporary contracts. I think almost everyone will admit it. Judgments have been responsible for this. People have wondered about the university community, and with learned lawyers that I don't pretend to be, it's the question of the duration and methodology. I'm going to say that this law will strengthen the position I think we are in. A senator would agree that the nation and we should be on the basis of resources. But then I just want to say, there are so many resources. Now I'm a communications secretary, and just the distribution of the communications season is a resource. They are temporarily assigned. There can be so many things that happen. I heard the highest. The prime minister here refers to excess carbon dioxide. Does it end up becoming a resource because it is competitive to bring it down to the ground or destroy it? There are so many things we cannot define as a resource that is to be heard under this general constitution. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u140	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, but really he misunderstood me altogether. I'm going to simplify it as much as I can. Tells you the highest. Minister that, hopefully, when we have legalized a constitution that the natural resources of Iceland belong to the nation, do they have rights that have already been accepted in the sea resources? I'm mostly thinking about the seaside resources right now, not really anything below the ground, some electrical cables, or something like that. There's something else I'm going to add quickly. It is in connection with the arrangement for socializing, that the public is allowed to pass through our country. Could it be that once we get this wonderful provision into the constitution, it would actually eliminate the uncertainty that now appears to be in the central national park and whether we can walk around it or not?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u141	A respectable president. Regarding the second question, I think that such a law will strengthen that position. But it is also quite clear and has been discussed in another context that it does not take away from the General Opportunity the possibility to limit it, in order to form if the land of others is being covered in private interest. That's different. But I'm going to say so, and now I understand why. A senator, to this law - I feel that there is a misunderstanding. The Senator wants, I think, don't believe what I said here, that today almost everyone will admit that fishing is the property of the nation, as the law on the fishing system says. Almost everybody. I don't know anyone who has walked over the rights that do not support that understanding. However, I'm going to say that this law, a new resource directive as it appears, will strengthen both the provision of the fishing law and the general understanding of what is the nation's property and what we agree to be. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u142	A respectable president. I'm going to reiterate what I said earlier in my answer to the highest. Minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, reiterate it to all members of the Parliament's Committee for a change in constitution that I think we have had a great deal of pleasure and that I know, most of all, a successful career. It's almost because I want to say that this should be done under the council because it surprises me completely how we work together outside this room, how I feel so much and often on the same page, but then when we come here people are even talking a lot about what you heard them say in other ways. Obviously, I have a lot to learn. This is gonna be hard for me. I may be becoming like the Specialist Party, rather conservative and old-fashioned in terms of some mutations from walking from one room outside this councilroom and then into the gym, and suddenly everything's completely different. Now, though, let us consider our commission to this group of presidents of the political parties to work on a change of constitution. It is not as if our Constitution did not undergo changes during our lifetime. I remember one of the most powerful, at least one of the largest, was around 1993 when we changed the European Convention on Human Rights. That chapter is really nice and nice, I think, most of it. I may also be a little conservative about the changes in the constitution over our heads, especially when it comes to changing it just for the changes, because I have often criticized that the person we already have just not listened and followed. Then I'd be happy to refer to 2. The constitution that calls for the trilocation of the state, that the legislature, execution, and judicial authority are to be separated. It comes from the good and functions of the soulless Montesquieu, who taught that to resist corruption and so on, each arm of the government would be a target for the rest, but they should certainly not crawl under the same bed, as it seems to be done here at the order of the General Assembly, where we have the authority and the Lawgiver in the one and the same elected representatives. There's a paradox on 2. current constitution. It's not as complicated as that. Since then, I have consistently referred to 1 mg. 76. g. The Constitution, which states that by virtue of disability, sickness, and otherwise, it should be legally guaranteed to all. I have often found this article of great ease and have not been found, in growing poverty and inducation, especially during the past year, a great will at the great General Assembly in order to comply with the current constitution. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. But now I'm going to turn my songs into a cross, stop talking about the old ones, and look instead at the major changes that have been made in the highest court. Prime Minister. In a 22nd degree. The bill says, with President's permission: ▪ After 78th C.E. The Constitution presents three new articles, 79,◯81. ............................. I don't usually have a magazine, but I was so sorry now to come up with a magazine because I don't know how to do it all by myself, it's so new. A- force, which will be 79. See, we're talking about the nature of Iceland. I don't think I'm going to lie down on anyone when I say that we've really been more and less in agreement with the officers'group when it comes to this law. I am completely disappointed in what this situation is like. But from now on, I'm going to turn right to the point. The a-party says, with permission from the President: Iceland's natural nature is the basis of life in the country. The responsibility for protecting nature and the environment rests together on all, and the protection should be based on a precautionary and long-term basis with sustainable development. Wow, this is so powerful. You're almost catatonic, you respectable President, it's so impressive. If it were just a little clearer. By that, I mean our constitution is our basic law and it should be so clear that every human child, at least every human who can read Icelandic, for we do not print it in all languages, understand what it says. We should not have to bring in all kinds of legalists, professors, and experts in every area to eat us, even the Lawgiver himself, of what is really in the law we are struggling to recommend. Is it not ironic that we do not understand ourselves, or do we hardly know whether we are coming or going in making the law? I think so. I don't like it. We have a few rules in general, but still very few, pretty few people, who are clearly and beyond doubt about what the Lawgiver wants and what he is saying and what he's saying. For example, it is a rule that says we should drive on the right side of the road, on the right. It's a rule that says you have to be 20 years old to buy booze in a liquor store, that's also a rule. Then there's a rule that says 18 is going to be a personal choice. That's a rule. It's clear and specific. Nothing gets out of the way. We do not have to call out any experts in every aspect of the world to tell us what that says. But it's worse when we're talking about something fair and normal, and when the lawgiver's supposed to do this and the other, and we know that there's a change to the bridge acquiesce and sacred, despite the fact that the Independence Party basically sat at the wheel more and less from the start with a pause, with its good friends in the advance more often than not. But this has jumped, and it will be exciting to see what will happen in the autumn of our arrival when we go to the next campaign. With the permission of a president, I will continue to relate to this wonderful provision regarding our natural resources. Then I'm talking about the environment and nature, I'm not quite excited to start with the resource policy itself right away, but it must come. It says: It should be established that biodiversity is maintained and that the growth of biodiversity and maintenance are guaranteed. Then there's a great input I've been trying to interpret, and I'm probably going to need some expert help to understand it: ▪ Everyone has the right to have a healthy environment. Then comes the 2nd issue of 2nd. in this article that the public is allowed to travel through the land and stay there for legitimate purposes. I wondered, and I came into it earlier in return to the highest level. Secretary of transportation, Sigurður Jóhannsson, which case is 2nd? would have no doubt that if we had a legitimate purpose, we would really be free to go through the land. It just stands there. I don't think there's a need for a specialist to read this, I think it's one of the few that's clear. So, with President's permission: The natural world will be well cared for and respect the interests of landowners and other courts. I feel like it's just a matter of nature. We are not accustomed to wading on other assets without permission, at least is that general courtesy, and I think we'll do it over our heads. It turns out that the law should determine the content and limitation of public rights. I'm not going to read about this anymore because I'm really in a hurry to swing over to the two-party. ...and it'll be 80. The new resource principle, which I found to be like most others, very exciting. In fact, I think it's amazing that to justify the pull of it in any direction, we're talking about all the resources, the berries we pick, the air we draw from, the sun, what are we going to charge for it? Even the sand down the shore. It's kind of-- I'm gonna use that word, and it's not an English phrase, but it's not Icelandic that I'm not used to here: I think it's lame. We are primarily talking about what has been on our mind. It is our sea source, our sharing, and how we have handled it, and who have been allowed to use it. That's kind of what we're talking about. And how money and water have gone to us when certain sources are authorized access to the resource. For example, since I'm in this mode, I'd like to mention that somewhere I've been told that the main objective of payment was at least that, and at no less than that, it should be able to support the operating of the marine resource itself. It's not that they were talking about returning some piece of paper into the public box. It's about how the Icelandic taxpayers were at least. not paying by allowing someone to catch the fish in the sea we all have. We were authorized to make a quick search for some 120 million extra funds. We are very interested in finding fur. I would have thought that the profit, the resources, should have been able to live up to searching for fur. We wouldn't have had to get extra funds to do that. But this is how you're based on it. I find it quite contradictory to find money because I want to see it come into a state fund for access to the resource, a real fortune, a lot of money, not just tens of billions of dollars go into a major project and even though I think it's great. But we look at a profession that started with the idea of catching the fish in the sea nearly in the media and insurance companies and calling it just name and name it. It's not even in connection with what was started anymore except for this part, doing away with money from the resource, and then investing in a totally different business. I don't think the goal was ever that, more dignified President, if I'm to say exactly what it is. I'm pretty sorry. We've been telling the people that we want to make money from the resource. We want the highest possible price for access to the resource. How can we do that? This question has been asked: Who can afford to buy if it goes public? Is it not just those who have all the money, that they not only become more of a contracture? That's exactly what it is, that's not how it would be. Here I am, on the highest speaker of the country, on the legislature. I'm at the High General Assembly of the Icelanders, and it's right here made by the legislation. It's here and here we would make the rules, shape the rules, and create the setting that we want to make for everyone to participate. We certainly are not allowing everyone to participate. As we know, we have very limited access to the resource by vacating the resource and other such things that would have so far been invented by sea waters. He was supposed to multiply and be back in shape soon after we began to get into this shit about 80 and something, 1983. It hasn't really worked out, unfortunately. I don't know exactly why, I'm not a marine biologist, though I think I know everything at times. I think we can do this better. I am grateful that Iceland's natural resources are part of the Icelandic nation. I find it a huge step, and I am grateful for it, but I am perfectly aware that for decades certain people have been able to access a resource that they actually obtained, which they have had the authority to hand over, rent, and apply in all respects, as per the 72th chapter of property rights. Constitutions. We're sure to feel that way, and I'm sure it'll test who's got the real fish in the water. I don't think it's working. But the lawgiver can always take over the resource. That's not the problem. We can always call back the quatane, we can always recall him in doses and whatever. But that does not change the fact that we are walking on something that may have developed a tradition for calling ourselves property rights. At that time, the State will be required to pay for the full price as if it were a form of property. We can step in if we think it's a public interest. There's no doubt about it, I'm not saying anything else, not at all. This is what I've been wondering. We, eight political leaders, have been working on this, not just at 25 meetings, I would multiply it ever since with at least Three and a half. I think they're one hundred and seventy-five hours. I think it's okay to say that, too, that's a much larger number. Now I want to look at another law that I find very interesting and actually just wonderful and hope that it is so clear that it is so clear that there is no doubt what that means, and we don't have to call many experts. It's about our language, c-joints 22. par., new 81st. I think we all agree on it. I just want to quote 2 mg. The article that I find particularly beautiful, and I'm almost sure that the people who made this statement have not figured it out, but it says clearly, by permission of the president: ▪ It is the language of those who rely on it for expression and communication. It shall be supported and protected by the government. A respectable president. What would that mean? I wonder if this means that those who can't communicate with one another or follow what we're doing unless sign language gets the right here with the c- team 81. par.? When we have legalized this law - must all of us agree to do so - are we saying that we will never accept our subjects except sign language everywhere? Sign language here at the council? A lot of people sitting out there in the community would like to observe what we're saying right here and now. I have never heard of the fact that this is really a turning point. In fact, it is a huge leap toward what we are always calling for regarding the rights of disabled people under the United Nations Convention. And there's one thing I have to come to, I'm almost always on my way out of the platform, and I always think I'm done, but I miss seeing in here that we trust the nation to make decisions. I'm really sorry. We actually started off with it and discussed it when we were dealing with and simplifying it and wanted to make it more efficient and clearer because most people do not really know what the President's role is. It looks like a hairpiece in every direction. Out here in the community, one executive will come up after another who knows all about what power the President of Iceland has and even knows it better than our distinguished, excellent president himself. It is quite remarkable how powerful he is at times, and men seem to forget that we live in Congress, not as presidents. But we were talking about 26. Current constitutions, of the proverbial rights we know Our Excellency Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson, former president, was activated in its own time. We were talking about whether we might as well activate the nation, that X would have several percent, or X, of the thousands of people that could call for votes on matters that concern us, and that we might be dissociative in our community, perhaps with regard to the future. I must say, a respectable president, that I miss putting it in because I find more worthwhile, especially where the nation is, for example. The director, that the nation may be more involved because we know exactly how our Congress works. Here are groups, some in positions of government, and others in government. This is usually the majority of the government of the population, so it really doesn't matter what the smaller part is making up. If the more part is going to do something, he'll just do it. It may be only 32◯34 members of the council. Of course they're democratically elected, but it doesn't change the fact that the form we're working on is, in my opinion, highly integrated and indistinguishable in many ways as well as unfair toward us who are, for example, us. each time it's in control. I think I can speak for everyone who's been in a position of government. Everyone's been forced to try it, when I say you're almost nowhere. Worse still, voters even think that if you work the dark between them in an effort to fight for the issues and ideals that you are elected to do, they are not doing anything. Now I'm starting to let the gimmick rage in every direction. But this is what I wanted to say for now. I reiterate that I think our constitution is the nature of it being clear, that it should be so clear that every person in the room can see it understand what it says. I don't think it's appropriate to put in words about something normal or fair or something ecstatic, which actually depends on who sits in the Ministers' chairs every time, on how things are done. I don't think that's fair. I don't feel that the Constitution should be filled with law-enforcement regulations, and that the council that it has, in fact, too much power in it, feels that it is limited. Because she's a little bit smaller, much smaller than I thought. I thought it was some scary doll when I was about to go through the constitution for the first time, but then it was just a tiny brochure that surprised me very, pleasant, and comfortable surprise me even. The text should be clear, and it should be good for all of us, and that's what I have to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u143	Madam President. I can agree with what. A senator's view that the lyrics should be explained. I've said sometimes in a joke that lawyers shouldn't come near the writing of lyrics, I don't know if. A senator agrees with me in that. But how the Constitution is supposed to be, that's a big question. I have sometimes talked about how they should be relatively simple and with few basics, and then we set a law about something else, but there are differing opinions. I have to say, I disagree. Senator on the definition of resources. As if I enjoyed listening to many things in a talk. I was slightly disappointed in how I felt. A senator looks narrowly at resources. I was so confident that we could meet in the fight for the nation's gain of just rights, and it would be certain that in national property all the resources that our good land has, not just the sea streets. The fact is, the fishing route is an enormously important industry, and I don't talk about it in historical terms. But a resource is so much more. Should we talk about the eviction, the force created by the nature of Iceland, or the country that people come to see and the exports they produce? And then I think there will always be more and more resources. I just think that wide, nature and I think a national park will become a resource in the future, people will pick up exactly what we have to offer, which we all share. I think, Mr President, that me and what. A senator can come together to ensure that all these resources will be kept in the Constitution of the nation forever.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u144	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér for this fine answer. I've somehow gotten it that way from me to what. A senator seems to think that I'm just talking about the sea resources, and I might have gone crazy earlier when I didn't remember what I was going to say. But that is not so at all. I just wanted to give special attention to how important it is to us, to that resource, right now. It is naturally one of three eggs in our basket, and of course our exports, the tourism industry, the giant eggs in our basket. We know that. But I was saying that I wanted to secure this resource. It could have been stated now. Although we're not always changing the constitution, it would have been possible to say so specifically now, at least What we have and what we know we have right now, i.e. The sea resources. I say, of course, we're supposed to make the most of it, and we're always entitled to run across all of our common resources. It doesn't matter what names they might be called, but it doesn't change the fact that I'm very interested in the sea resources, and I don't really think it gave them money and money to their owners I wanted to see. I hope that answers my question. A senator somehow, at least enough to make him realize that I'm not quite trapped in the ocean.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u145	V.E.G. President. There must be some misunderstanding, and I think that he is as bad as I am. Senator. I am so pleased with the way these matters are viewed in this suggestion. We watch the resources in Iceland's nature, that they belong to the nation. It's not the only resource you're looking at, it's all of them. It should be used in a sustainable way to benefit the entire population. It makes me feel quite clear, and it's extremely important to point out that using things is sustainable. I was, for example. working on a committee that was developing Iceland energy policy, it's been working on resources. There, we had to talk ourselves into saying that it was extremely important that they be used in a sustainable way. There would have been no defeat in the work of having a constitution that made it always necessary, and I like that we can work together on this. I just agree with what. A senator to see that the fish in the sea are an extremely important profession and a resource. We cannot ignore the fact that the discussion has been a big business. On the other hand, I'm aware that all too much, or should we say too little, has it been that people look for jobs because looking at the importance of crowns and money, which are not the only criteria, there's a lot of other resources that we should give as much if not more interest and attention and resources. All of this has to be unsolved and stable knots, allowing resources to be a permanent property of the nation and to be used in a sustainable way. That's what's done so well in the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-03-52.u146	A respectable president. Yes, we can agree that we want to benefit naturally from all our resources, but some resources are more established than others and more extensive experience on them. We're always getting acquainted with something new in this regard, and only to the loan we've been lucky at the time, after the hip, and the economic collapse of 2008, and here, not only did the macro enter our jurisdiction, a fast fish, which never before, flew in here a tourist like no morning's. And it was pretty much that we're actually halfway on the side of this Covid epidemic because they can't come and visit us. So we eagerly wait for them to come to an end. But I'm not happy that we don't want a full price for access to the resource. I wouldn't mind being told all the resources. But it would be natural to consider that next to it would be sustainable. They have to be self-sustained, and this is how it has to be calculated. However, it would be here at this high assembly that the book would be built on what it would be and would be done in harmony with the nation. We know that the nation has often felt secure too. She sees how the sea resources have been used, how they have only spread around the world, how the Icelandic nation has been investing all over the world because certain members have had very broad access to our marine resources. We would've wanted to be part of this party. It's just that way. [["And in the energy."]] So that's not what I'm talking about.
