ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u1	With letters, dated December 2, 2021, President has requested that, miss. 8th cycle 1.mg. 13th par. Parliaments, on the board of administrations and monitoring committees, are covering two state reexamination reports, bearing the title Simplified Man in the capital area and services to disabled people under law No. 38/2018, induction and implementation of rural society, however.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u2	The president considers it possible for a meeting to last longer than the Council of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u3	The president said that he expected a meeting to last longer, but he did not ask if anyone would object. I object to it. It was not said on the Presidency Committee that there should be a longer meeting today. It was just yesterday that they talked about it. So if the President is going to try something to do -- this is a classic, it's like sending inquiries without asking us. We're planning our Senate business here, too. We also need to plan, so: The president, please consider.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u4	Because of these words. The senator believes the president correctly that this particular point will be discussed at the brief meeting of the council classes, which will be announced at lunchtime. The President is not going to vote for this right now, but I am sure that my understanding was that, at any distance, at a meeting of the council groups, it was supposed to be a longer conference. I think I put it in such a way that a meeting would have to be held for as long as possible in view of the long service record. But if there's been a misunderstanding about this, it's true that there will be discussions at a meeting of the council groups at lunch time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u5	President. I didn't understand that there was an agreement that would be a longer conference meeting today. That was a deal yesterday. But it's just fine that we found out about it at lunchtime. I'd like to know if the president would retract his words that he considered an agreement to have been a long convocation because I agree with him. paritaprevir If Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson did, I would argue with him until we have agreed to do so. I think it's quite natural that there's a longer conference meeting, but I just think it's important that it's clear that we're not going into the night, and I think it's important that we have agreed on it at a meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u6	As the president mentioned earlier, the president believes that this will be discussed at a meeting of the council groups. The president does not consider any binding decision to have been made until this meeting ended.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u7	A respectable president. We will continue to discuss the important issues we address here, which are the government bill for financial gain. We see, and it had been proclaimed by the government, including the government. at our chairman's meeting, not a major change in this financial bill, may not be expected. These are the same groups that are in the government, and in fact, they only recycled a government by some kind of political exchange. I cut it yesterday, in my second excellent speech. The minister of finance, in which he well considered various factors, said that we were discussing this so late. I think it is also the political decision of this government in view of wanting to hold on to autumn elections. We can see that this is the first time a government in its entire terms and does not correct the discrepancies that will occur automatically by putting this tremendous pressure on the council, regardless of which categories are involved. Not long ago, the president of Iceland stood in that same chair and discussed it with the council and kindly pointed out to us to think only about it, thinking only about what this means. We are experiencing it right now - although we may have a pleasant situation in preparing for preparation, since it is the same government that should be relatively comfortable - that the council is placed on an unsatisfactory and unfavourable charge. That means we have less perspective. We have fewer opportunities to have a conversation about how other fine and noble ideals and the policy of the government are presented in the government covenant. How to apply e.g. to conduct it and contribute to the implementation of children's affairs for the next year's budget, for example? Up for a democratic debate, up to transparency, to a tricky practice that is being called up in the whole administration system, better preparation, I want to challenge us, and, in particular, the leaders of the classes, to sit down and discuss whether or not to become a change in this arrangement and that we plan for spring elections so that we can discuss and deliver funds, especially, instead of establishing what appears to be the attitude of the Independence Party and the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance, always planning on having this time, having fall elections, which means we're going to have funding every four years. I don't think it's acceptable. It's just a kind recommendation for a minister, and I want to celebrate, and I love to see it here at the highest. A seafaring and agricultural minister, I know that you love the council and that they respect it. It's just such a kind recommendation for a government minister to take this conversation with us. I'm going to get to the expenses and along the side of expenses, review activities that I want to point out in health matters, in judicial cases, and in climate matters. I'd like to first review what I'm most concerned about. The restoration has repeatedly pointed to this, pointing out in the budget talk for Covid 2019, that expenses have increased dramatically. It's been a huge fee from the government for Covid and something for Covid. Since 2017, expenses have been constantly increasing without adequate and consistent attention to the financial base, how we can foresee long-term sustainable financial resources. This is important to us because it's no big deal to be in politics if we're always praising beautiful things, important things, important things in order to improve people's quality of life, and we don't have to worry about who pays the bill, if we're just going to lay down a debt of state funds on future generations. It's a pleasure, and I'd like to celebrate it, because it's also because of the solidarity of the government at the Covid time, that it was our pleasure that we'd take together and make some consistent decisions on important issues to meet the challenges of the Covid pandemic. Homes had to be beaten by armor. The firm had to be beat by armor, so that growth would be something in spite of the difficult times in Covid's time, and the fall of one of the basic work forms, the tourism, was enormous as we know it. But taking a step was a solid agreement here at the council. In fact, during our restoration, we criticized the government for not taking enough steps, they step right away, but they are not doing this to the point of time, now for two years. It's been such small-dose medicine and follow - up reactions, all respectable, but we emphasized the importance of saying things right away and providing leadership. There are countless examples, e.g. It's like innovation and insurance. We immediately proposed a reduction in insurance costs to SMEs. We discussed the new creations, which have been taken and well meant, they are positive. I think the work of the government in innovation has been building us up as a community. But I felt that it was short - lived on the part of the government parties when they took our proposal to make support of the innovations. It's just a temporary strength in view of the government's purpose, you can read it out of this, during the Covid operation. I think it's shortsighted. We are to continue in the long run to promote and rebuild the environment of innovation. It was just a sidebar like this, a sidebar, that I wanted to mention in connection with Covid. I'm going to keep focusing on the side of tea. This huge increase in income has taken place since 2017, as I could in the past, without the support of the income foundation. I agree with the government, and I think it's the right approach that we should grow out of the problem. It also means that we need to identify the interaction between employment and money policy and the involvement of responsible government issues. It's all hanging out. We hear a word and a reminder from the governor who points to the government and says, "Keep yourselves alert to this massive expansion while the income foundation is not self-sustained. " What will it mean for the homes of the country if we continue to carry an irresponsible government spending policy, an insurmountable government spending policy? This means that the U.S. Bank increases pressure to use its tools and equipment. To do what? To raise interest. This means an increased load of payment, a heavier fold on the shoulders of families in the country, so that companies and jobs may not be exactly needed. We need to grow out of the problem, which involves many factors. I may handle the labour market only afterwards, and the enormously important and responsible task on the shoulders of the government and especially the labour market. To grow out of the problem means that we see signals - to form in the budgets and forecasts that are based on, among other things. in the next year's estimate of economic growth. It's similar. In fact, the forecast of the World Bank is a little lower than we look forward to economic growth in the next year, which is completely tolerated. He should strengthen us to take certain steps to keep growing out of the problem. The positive thing about what I said earlier, which is stated in these budgets, is that economic recovery became faster and greater - as elsewhere, this is not the case, just as it is said, throughout Europe and the United States - after the epidemic than the national governments expected. Yet, we face a mere 200 billion - foot range. He doesn't disappear like that, and there's a responsibility here for us to shrink the angle, make it targeted, so the state's funds will not be owed at all. I hear we may not all agree on that goal. There's a way in which we're not. I'd like to point out that it was our luck for a collapse that we were confronted with the responsibility of the state fund so that it wasn't a debt, a government fund could be applied. The same thing happened right now when the government faced the epidemic and its economic consequences, it was possible to use a wealth of money because he had been disfellowshipped wisely, his debt had been paid off. It is part of being prepared for tragedy to have a government fund that is responsible and is not in debt. If he's in debt, his debts need to be self-sustained. The next year, economic growth is estimated to be about 5.3%. The World Cash Fund predicts 4.9% interest, but what worries me greatly is that the years that follow, and just up to 2026, according to a financial plan, government funds will be thrown down, and that will be quite significant. All right, if he's thrown out with a tilt, then is he still self-sustained? There is no way to see the Agency's projections on the Council Bank or the Organization's predictions that we see sustainability in the government, with a interest of 2,33/4.2.5%. The further comes, and there are all the warning signals that flash there, and history shows us that we have not made it out of such an environment, that the export branches, and that is what the Sullabana says in its predictions, will not be able to live with interest, but will subtract it. What motivates next year to contribute to this high economic rate for one year, 4,93/4,3% economic growth? There's two things. It is the support and strength of the state's funds - these are the big lines - for the jobs and the businesses in the country and for the homes, it is important, but especially that we are seeing on the outside and are being taken off the fur, from that export. While under such circumstances, it will result in an increase, a higher economy. But after this year, in 2022, it is more likely that such exports will not be able to support economic and valuable growth in the community. This is a major concern, and it affects the wealth of the empire. It affects the environment and circumstances faced by the Councilman when he uses his growth equipment, and it affects how the public's environment and the standard of living will develop. The next year, a challenge for the government and for all of us will be to show responsibility and to express motivation and wish that the labour market finally accept collective agreements so that it will bring us a sense of responsibility. And we have to keep in mind that we have the crown. While we are with the crown, the workforce is even more responsible for making it possible for us to live up to the fact that there will always be a little more for our blessed crowns tomorrow than for today. That is why it is my challenge to the labour market party to go to what has been done in the North countries, that the labour market is trying to negotiate the signs we want to have in mind. to promote economic growth. Will the workforce always be the same? Allow e.g. newfound import, higher salary, fostering more money in society? It's not self-sustaining for long periods of time. Or we would like to follow the ways in which the North countries have taken up, to negotiate specific signals related to the exportways, the export of the time, and then to negotiate reasonable and modest rates of return but try to receive this signal that is important, coming from the exports, and telling us what real purchases can be. I would like to encourage the labour market party, hopefully with the government's backing, to take this sensible step, responsible step. It is important for the overall benefit of all of us that we, because we are dealing with budgets, see to it that the more responsible business on the state's budget is responsible. We need to think that economic growth will be greater than what the Federal Bank predicts, and I want to stress that I would have liked to see in the Government Convention how the government is going to promote economic growth so as not to have a better and greater fulfillment of the Federal Bank. There's no sign of that. The only thing that was on hand in the government covenant was a good mind in all creation, but it did not say how to invest in and finance all the promises there. This is something I would like to underscore, both the warnings of rising spontaneous government spending and the signs that are so obvious on the basis of the strategists and the members who are predicting the development of economics in the near future. Despite seeing positive signs coming up next year, I ask, "What then? " It's up to me to say, and I just want to emphasize that the bank sales are called in the government covenant. I think it's important to continue sales in Iceland Bank. But I would like to at the same time stress that I believe it is important that the funding of the bank will not be used in the combination as such, but will be subsidized on the debt of state funds, to reduce the debt of state funds. The story, as I told you earlier, tells us that it's important to have a small debt when it comes to government funds, anyway, that they are self-sustaining and, as the situation is now, it doesn't seem to be over the years, and then it's going to be an investment. Business and industrial organizations have pointed out that it reminds me that we are far below the long - term average when it comes to investments. That's bad. It's bad, 'cause internal investments promote the business life, they encourage the companies, and they encourage us to have a stronger infrastructure, and at the same time they encourage the benefit of the articles related to all these investments. So it is important to consider investments in the years ahead. I cut it down - it may have been because it's the highest. Minister arrived - that in his speech, which concerns me a little, he said that a slight contraction seemed to be in investments and on the investment side when a financial bill was considered. I think we especially need to consider how we can reinvent our investments. As we look to the OECD countries, we have the most taxing countries. We are with the countries that have all the taxes, and we are also the country that defends the highest proportion in public spending, considering the GDP of most countries within OECD. It's okay just because there's a lot of public expenses here. In fact, we are not blessed with an army large in the expenses of other nations, a large part of it. But I don't think Icelanders are against paying taxes. Icelanders are not opposed to having certain infrastructures, specific services, and other services that we want to be assured, which ensures that we have access to good health systems, good education systems, science, etc.; good insides. But then there must be also. People need to feel that we have better service than before, that we have fewer in waiting lists. It's what worries me that from 2017, we see all this enormous expansion, and sometimes the government groups seem to just go out because they've increased their expenses and so much instead of asking what we're getting for the money they're investing in our community wood. What is it we're getting in return? Are there fewer waiting lists or less people on the list? Are there fewer waiting lists after replacement surgery? Are there fewer waiting lists for a speech pathologist? Psychologists? Experts? That's what matters. Although we have taken a very important step regarding the laws on government finance, that was a huge step we took in our time, we still lack the measure of success we need to have already considered in government management. These more than 1,000 billion, often much more than what we put in improving our service to let society rot - are we really increasing the number of opportunities, are we really improving our ministry? This is part of what I hate about the fact that a financial committee and the council have no more time to discuss, as I mentioned at the outset. This basic prince's business is under attack because we have to make money. Instead of asking, can we use our funds more fully? Can we increase the effectiveness of the public? These questions need to be asked, not just a contract of beautiful words, and then there is money on how to finance things. Whether we have - because we're going to talk about a financial plan at the start of the next year - taking more time and putting more weight on a financial program, which suggests how we're going to do this, including with this in mind, how we can apply the funding we're putting into the lawsuits. Icelanders want to pay taxes as long as they know they're being used in the best possible way. Then we need to ask ourselves, " Are we really the right tools for doing this? ' It has been called for, but this has not been answered, and this has not been done. This is also the challenge I want to present. My main concern is the income side. I have very little time left, but I'm just going to skate over certain things, which, of course, are big business for us. If you go down on lawsuits, health issues, there's an increase in your donations to health care for 16 billion, and I think it's long time. We see that we are for instance with limited freedom because the government has simply failed to solve the flow problem of the Land Hospital, has not handled the staff sufficiently so that it is not such a tremendous strain, to form nurses at the Land Hospital, doctors. As a result, as a result of this shortsighted attitude in management and policy over the past few years, there has been no real increase in attention to nursing, although hopefully it will be. It's a long time before we go to these shows exactly. But I'm also asking: There's been an increase, not just because of the new Land Hospital and investments, and there's been an increase, what are we getting in return? We need to keep that question alive. These 16 billion there, do they come out of abbreviated workweek, or is it extra into the Land Hospital? Is this an increase that simply means an increase in the amount of salary development and the increase in economic growth that will be over the next year? Or is this really an increase to the group? When we say we're adding to the seminary, we have to put our finger on what will solve the problem we face today because of Covid. I think there's evidence of that, and I'm glad to hear it if we're at the top of the world. He or she will focus on increasing the number of ICUs, reducing stress, trying to do everything we can to care for our general health care. We can also see that doctors are pointing out that other measures, during conditions like this, are in cooling, and that there is no harm. We're here with people all over society, whether they're having heart surgery or any other waiting action, and all the people around them. This adds to feelings of distress and reduces the quality of life. So it is a great responsibility to take this firm, but at the same time ask a challenging question: How can we get the most out of the money being placed in the health and welfare system? These are the things the budget needs to review. Is this a real increase? How will this be protected? I'd like to be especially welcome as to health insurance, but it's really important that we add to the role of health insurance in identifying costs, identifying the cost of the service that the government needs to buy. I assume that we will be prepared for that proposal, such as the last legal hearing - we will propose a proposal to support and support health insurance so that they can negotiate with an independent operating body to help. that the Land Hospital can be relieved, to negotiate with an independent organisation or health centre in the country to carry out the schedule where people are on the list. However, these suggestions have been added to a series of storms, year after year. I'm just saying, "Let Guð know." I heard the highest. Secretary of finance is talking under the policy debate on private business and private, including the independent active party, but his party has not spoken of this person for four years. During some episode of activity, there has been no mention of persons who can support the health system. It's about service. It is a matter of service to the individual, and we are under obligation to examine all avenues, how we use the funds to improve our ministry, our service to the people, our service to the children. We want a strong official system, we're clear. We want a strong Land Hospital, we're clear. But we also see opportunities to use the powers of an individual person as well as others, e.g. Healthcare institutions in the country to improve the ministry We can't shut it down, and I'll be happy if we open a portal for the next four years when this happens. In due course, the responsibility of health insurance will be great. We have seen that distant health care is of utmost importance; it has been mentioned in the Treaty of four governments. Nothing's happened, nothing. Except, for ten months under the highest command. Secretary of finance, who served as prime minister for ten months. It was when the then health minister, Óttarr Proppé, composed two experimental projects just to improve the quality of our extended health care. Since then, nothing has been done. There is always something put in there, but it has not been working because there may still be built - in prejudices about taking advantage of the individual enterprise. There must be a change if we are really going to consider that the ministry of our people is better. I'm just getting started, but I'm asking for the highest. President to add me back to the rosary. I was gonna go over the climate. I was going to go over the sports business, the national palace. I was going to mention the Ministry of Justice and, in fact, the Department of Justice. United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disappointment How important it is to be followed by the quickest course of action! It can be done. I especially rejoice that it has finally come in here because it has been opposed within the government until now to follow that enormous and important issue. [[The president calls.]] But there is going to be a change, and I will inquire about it in my next talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u8	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. In chapter I of the budget bill, it says, by permission of the President: It is supported by responsible management of the past few years, and it contributes to a strong society that gives equal opportunities and supports those who need it. I'd like to ask you what. A senator where she sees this equal opportunity in the budget bill. What is involved in giving everyone equal opportunities? Is there equal opportunity for people who can't get into the house market, for people who don't study because of financial difficulties or who end up in debt, and who are forced to leave school, for unemployed on overwork, with little room to move, for students who don't get maternity, for disabled people who don't receive NPA help because of government greeting on assistance, people who are trapped in poverty prisons and impairments? I don't see that these problems are being solved to create a real equal opportunity. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u9	A respectable president. Our society is good. I'm very proud to be an Icelander and live in a good community. But we who are involved in politics, and that is also the advantage of the smallness of the country, feel the pain. We've just started a campaign, people touching us, talking to us, saying, "We're not getting this service. We talk to the families of disabled children. On the first day of school, people are happy to have their children on a career, and they are told: "What then? How about four years from now? And when we think e.g. with regard to education and the employment of disabled children, nothing has happened when it comes to further deliberation, just to name it. In my opinion, the government contract has a noble mind, and there are many good things in it, but as the situation is now, exactly this part has not been cared for. What I'm afraid of is that, despite the beautiful words of a government contract, we are not - because we are dealing with the financial bill - seeing evidence that it will follow up its opportunities in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u10	President. I find it so interesting that when you're throwing in a lot of cool words and terms, like equal opportunities and economic stability, I often feel that there's a lack in people the definition of these terms and the way people are thinking it. I feel somehow that there is a lack of a complete view of society, especially when it is spoken of economic stability, that it is the key to making much of the home's compensation lasting in the past few years, as the financial bill says. Economic stability is not just low inflation, low growth, low unemployment, low dwindling and economic growth. It's also about how we measure, e.g. Biodiversity, the way we measure climate change, increase change or decline belief in democracy and public institutions, and everything that must be okay. This and this part of society must be in order. [[The president calls.]] So I feel that this whole vision is missing, and I just want to hear a little bit of a thought. That's what a senator's got to do with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u11	A respectable president. In a sense, I can begin to worry. Because we need to discuss all of this, we need to discuss economic stability. Economic stability affects social stability, just as social stability also affects economic stability. It's as if people haven't figured out how to communicate over the years. Besides the fact that climate has got to get in there. It's a major concern, not necessarily how climate matters are presented in a government contract, but how the follow-up is to compare with all the holes and holes in the little clues we have on the budget when it comes to climate. Yes, I give high priority to economic stability, but it's not available without being a social stability too. I would have chosen the government to have given some kind of signal, including. to increase the confidence of the worker in the way it should be used for e.g. to continue making it possible for young and wealthy people to make room for themselves. [[The president calls.]] I would have liked to see more specific signs in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u12	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. After the senator talked about the problem of choosing to vote so late, I would kill him. Now we've got a what? A member of the council had a very good experience, and I wondered, " Does this mean any change in intolerance to discussion? ' It was said that there would really be little discussion because this was based on a financial program that had been approved for last spring. Last spring said that there was a small need for a financial discussion because it was not long since we had agreed on a financial programme in the fall, which was an unusual time for Covid, etc. I'd like to ask you what. Only in the need for the discussion of the budget and deep down in this, not only here but, of course, on the committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u13	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this fine point, this very important point. As I see it, there's a why. In effect, a senator is talking about the importance of the council, about the respect of the council, that we as elected representatives - the body of Congress is not the sole enthusiast of being called a candidate. We are the clients of those who have chosen us, and we need opportunities and opportunities to look into ways that benefit us. I was here talking in the budget talk about all this expansion. We never receive, and we repeatedly noted the need to get discussions about the effectiveness of our efforts, e.g. to get an investment in the health system, in education system, in the infrastructure. We need those results, but we do not get the discussion. We will not be given the discussion or the opportunity to show supervision and maintenance during a noncombatant assembly. [[The president calls.]] I'll get to it later. I don't think it's easy for us to think about when the election is going to take place, because we're experiencing it right now that we're involved in the budget, and there's no benefit in that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u14	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It is now that there was a memo from the General Legal Office that it was not necessary to wait for the decision of the draft board to start a Senate service and, therefore, would have been in hand with the council to study the budget, in order to make a better start when the expansion is done in this way. A very large rise is observed, e.g. When it comes to the council's administration. There is a particular concern and something that we need to examine about the overwhelming changes in the area. Then you wonder if it would have been better to start this discussion and this work, even though it would not be totally depressed who would be in the future government, since the current ministers could hardly have done so much. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u15	A respectable president. I'm not going to say that every time a government can't change the government and the Council to some extent, both to adjust to a new reality and also to political emphasis. I'm not gonna tell you it's not possible and it shouldn't be done. But there may be no need for such grenades to be thrown away, as has been done in these last days. There's an election in May, but the government has arrived in June, and then the council and the board have the opportunity to build a powerful financial bill that receives a better and more thorough discussion. The level of control that we have, where the money should go, can be discussed further. This is what we're calling for, democratic, subversive discussion on the budget and that we have time to discuss the matter, in order to carry out the responsibility that the voters have given us at one time. So we won't be able to make it to the council for 15 minutes before the New Year's Eve. I understand, according to morning news, the budget bill will not be completed until the end of the year.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u16	Mr. President. I thank you for your fine speech, even though it is obvious that each one of us sees the silver. Hv. A senator spoke a little about the insuficient expansion, and I realize the importance of maintaining it. Of course, there are two ways to endure. You can save, draw together, but you can also make more money. I think I know what. A senator agrees that e.g. can increase the income of our resources. Does it not think that it is shortsighted for the government not to invest more than is done in climate matters? This is the benefit that will undoubtedly bring directly on the quality of life and take it later. At the same time, I ask if it is also important that we invest in social stability and equations.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u17	A respectable president. No, it's not a question, and I don't need to be asked often. I believe that there was a need to clean up with resources. It's perfectly clear in my opinion that the project can and will want to pay more if everything goes public, she will. The market will control, the market will highlight the value of the resource, and it is only natural that the resource will have more share than it is receiving. With regard to climate - that's what I miss. I would have, for example. I'd like to talk to a climate and environment minister about how to achieve our objectives in climate change. This is very vague, and it is a promise of how we are going, for example. to restore wetlands, to destroy land, to stop vegetation. How? Is that supposed to be done by putting an impulse into the system? Are you going to pay landowners? It's all very hairy, because it's sensitive between the constitutions. While the left green has a clear direction, the independent party and the forward team have not wanted to hear about it. [[The president calls.]] This is what we need to get, and I think it's important to us about the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u18	Mr. President. Interestingly, the exact number given to climate is the same as the direct concentration for agriculture, 13 billion. This is interesting because our goals work to some extent against one another. Part of our agricultural production is that it is actually very curative. Of course, we need powerful, much food production, but we may need to change it and make it a source of sustenance. I'm sure we'll agree on that, me and what. Senator, we're supposed to be supporting Icelandic agriculture, and we're supposed to do it as much as we're supposed to now, maybe more. But the senator would feel the highest. A minister should now use the opportunity to change the sponsoric system and open the possibility of Icelandic farmers to move into eco-efficiency and more healthful food production?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u19	A respectable president. Yes, there are huge parishes in Icelandic agriculture. There are few jobs that we can see as many parishes as we can in agriculture and the new one. I believe, however, that the current funding system draws it down. I think the power of farmers and consumers also weakens. I'm convinced that consumers' interests and farmers go out here on a huge scale, including is decommissioned by intermediate forces on the system. I agree with what. Senator. Our policy in acidification has been that land management should not be reduced, but we need to change the strength of the environment. We have to do it for farmers, for the environment and for consumers. We have to get in this thing, and it's possible. There are good role models from other places when it comes to this. Our idea of restoration for the indirect strength, which is through the customs, may include: building and setting a share of that value directly to farmers on the basis of environmentally friendly and climate-friendly costs for agriculture.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u20	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech is excellent. There's been some discussions in the conversation yesterday about the dissociation of the Ministry of Education and how its projects were transposed here and there on the system. Where it is. A senator who is a former minister of education would like to ask about her vision of this operation. And for the fun of it, it would be interesting to hear the opinion of the former Education Minister on her successor, in her opinion, in the government today.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u21	A respectable president. At any rate, it is clear that one of the three individuals who held their ministerhood was the head of the classes. They did not believe in the other stewards that they trusted them to carry on some good work, so everything was confused. To say that I don't like to build cultures, tourism, and other projects that are there. I just think it's a pretty exciting ministry thing. I do not understand, however, why school issues are being torn apart. I find that very specific about the overall approach in school matters. Science and university are closely connected, not just a question, with the goal of promoting it, but it also affects other schools. It has, for example. long talk about professional college, where will it fall? Where will the university go? Whatever the case, regardless of what we do, it is important for us to encourage the level of professional education. I'm not opposed to all changes right now, but I'm sorry to see this great division when it comes to school and education.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u22	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. In addition, there was a reason. A member of the Parliament will review suggestions made by reimbursement of previous budgets to support the contracting of private service agencies in medical care to reduce stress at a National Hospital ◯ University Hospital and to shorten a waiting list. Of course, there are many things that are involved in making financial contributions, giving a number of votes, explaining them, and all that comes with them. Just as a review: What was such the core logic of the administrative point in passing those suggestions to earlier levels, since this appears to have suddenly come on a list of projects, if you try to read in a positive way the words of the Treaty? Can the chairman of the Environment help me to recall the lines of these earlier suggestions?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u23	A respectable president. It was generally this way, and it has been reviewed here several times, that any practical suggestions we made were made by the administrative sector, any category involved. At times, it was just as good that the greater part of the government adopted our suggestions. Perhaps it is in this case that the administrative point is to awaken to the realization that it is important to enable all the energy in society, whether in public or in private, to expand the services and reduce the number of people in the lists. They're right, they've dropped it repeatedly, and I'd also like to draw attention to the fact that they didn't want to have any suggestions on wood construction and the Central Party that allows health insurance to negotiate with private partners when it comes to communication and other factors. Thus, this has been repeated in many areas. Besides that, the entire body of Congress, on a big and important matter, agreed to subsidies of the psychological services. Since then, the government has done little about the important issues that would meet a very difficult group of people who need support.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u24	Mr. President. Hv. On a kitchen day, Christianrún Kristrún's Frostadóttir gave a fine talk, even asking a question. whether politics had come to an end in Iceland. It's not an odd question. However, it is certainly hard to deal with politics in a Senate hall, and there are numerous primes on important matters and on fire by members of all classes. The fate of most people may become something, as shown by Davíð Stefánsson There are seeds, they do not thrive and grow up. And that, of course, is normal. But sometimes here are issues that are largely consistent across political lines, but they are either sterile or put to sleep on a committee, which then overstepped unexpectedly in a new government contract, and then even into a financial afterlife. This, of course, is strange. But, of course, what has eventually paid the most is the government's budget, which we now deal with. It clearly shows where to go, what priorities are set, and what values are generally based. So I'm going to allow myself to answer the question of my coworker's absence. You see, politics has not run its course, and the political vision of the three governmental parties is just fine in this document. It is also a political view and attitude to make decisions about quietness, discouragement, or indifference toward disorder. It may be primarily the vision that I read from these budgets, some form of cowardship in getting us into the future and investing in large and important matters of climate, which are then the quality of living for generations, or the basis on which a small nation needs to build, much equalizing. We live in a village once, and we can't enjoy it because people next door don't have a knife and spoon. But the most peculiar issue of this discussion today is the cry of the budget against the introductory details of the government covenant. When you sat last Sunday listening to the three ears from the Board of Directors, he introduces them to me a little bit. I felt as if we were going to see a government that was really going to take place and a business venture in this council as we at the government stand could in many matters, not all of course, wind up in Iceland. But it's just that words need to be fulfilled if there's something in them, and unfortunately, I don't necessarily see them so clearly in these laws. I'm pretty convinced that the Covid epidemic has saved the last government ever sat there. You see, there were quite dark clouds in the economic sky for Covid, as well as differences, especially between the left green and the independent party, that somehow it was difficult to identify who led the drive to important issues, and this, of course, was essential measures, e.g. for health care, for cleaning. The government had the necessary purpose for Covid, and through the help of scientists, forwarders, public standing, and opposition, we have in themselves put our feet on well this pandemic. When I'm at the highest. The secretary of finance is now appointed in an interview after an interview that measures for companies and homes attacked in Covid made the situation better than fear was, in part, the right thing to do. Of course, there were external circumstances. It was also such a misreading of economists and others about what would happen and how we would act as consumers during the epidemic that followed us. But I feel that it is the highest. A minister of finance should be a man greater in these interviews and stress that it was all that was behind the government for the majority of the measures, and we even promoted that even more will be done in many areas. In fact, it's played well, and we have a solid basis to endure in spite of everything. As a result, we have no excuse for not showing more courage and attacking the investments and actions that can bring us to Iceland's better quality of life for the future, making it possible for us to achieve the toughness of life and to build up a greater variety of employments that will always protect us from unexpected tragedies that will always be carried out instead of having to live forever in response, react to the other and these things. Of course, I do not rule out that there must always be a change of pace, but first and foremost, we have to get the household's business to the point where things are predictable and that such measures would have been, in effect, much more in line with the expectations given at the Kjarvats. That's why I felt quite powerless at the highest point. Recently, the prime minister explained in an interview that small changes in spending joints include: Because of the epidemic. All right, Covid has been expensive to us, but the situation is excellent, and we have no excuse for not showing any greater courage. You can point out the highest. Also, a prime minister has more ways to show support than to reduce expenses or to cut down directly. There is also a way to earn money. It is very important that the fact that the United States feels that it is entirely out of the question that it is wise to raise taxes and a penalty for the public in the country. However, it is not merely wise to attack; it reflects justice. I have found the left green to answer much of that in the past, though there was clearly a change. The union laid down, e.g. for these elections to raise income at 20 billion dollars. By the pressures of a moderate wealth tax on pure property over 200 million, we believe that it is a justice thing that the big business in this country pays a fairer price than it is now done to enable us to adjust the situation elsewhere in the community. These ideas did not necessarily receive a welcome welcome on a special day, but we are aware that there could have been investing in people because these 20 billion wanted to spend on improving the status of the public in the country, e.g. through a Norwegian child reform system, without having to pinch some action to take on - climate, education, investment in innovation, which is totally safe to commend, it has shown one of the most rationalities there. Just as the Covid initiatives we employed to help the households, so I don't talk about business in the country, were investments in the future of entire industry, tourism, who looked forward to an amazing failure because of the external circumstances that the article had no chance of defending itself from and not being responsible, in the way that it can make a significant difference in the public path to invest in the future of full articles, in order to obtain more money from society in the future, we also need to watch that the struggle against unswerving investment is also in peaceful, reasonable, and just society that will bring more valuables. I would have somehow believed that this would be a good idea for the Left Green and even the Future Party, which, after four years of political stability, is a very long way of justifying cooperation, just because it would not be good if we were to choose too often, she must now demonstrate what it is made and give us a stronger and clearer clue as to where it wants to go and where to go and where to go with an Icelandic society. These words of action to deal with the technological change, climate action needed to build on earth, and, of course, a biography for everyone. But this lofty, good, and progressive tone lasted only two days. Then the law came and everything was over. But I keep saying that the situation is good enough for us to follow those ambitious words. We just can't afford to, can you say, not do it. We have to attack big - business investments on the inside. We have some wood that we haven't finished yet. We are defending less as a share of transport production than in other European countries on average. Still, we haven't built up yet. We'll finish it. And we have ports, and we know inside these numbers too, while the European nations may be making the roads more secure and, of course, repetitive, as they need to be, parket, roof, or malbik. We're gonna have to take on ambitious climate action, and I think that's a good idea. That assignment can go hand in hand with the challenges we face in the face of the technological change, for the remarkable about them is, of course, that we are seeing an entirely new kind of product. Of course, we know this traditional product production, where the natural resource is new and transformed and made more sellable or that we make prosthesis of some brand of product, and then we have to build and manufacture a factory. But now, to a much greater extent, we are seeing that products are immutable digital, so it may take a very long time to create prosthetics, to create the first prototype of the product, after which it is incredibly easy to create a new and new copy. And not only that, but the product can be placed to distant corners of the world in a fraction of a second without the cost of eco-efficiency. These actions, efforts against the climate threat, and the challenges of technological change, are often tasks that can be of overexcited support to one another. There is no need to multiply about what such realities can bring great profits and benefits to a very small nation of people with few hands to work, a nation that lives in a vast country that is complicated in transporting goods and people who live far away from markets and have to spend a lot of money getting something else. Thus, this is not exactly some bread of distress, dealing with bad situations, although we are certainly under attack on climate surgery because we are confronted with the rampant excess of earth and consumerism. We also have the opportunity to approach this in a positive way and to create mankind and us ourselves benefit from this. When we face such projects, it is fun to get started, and we do not take pride in the ambitious way of spending as much as our last government decided. Although they certainly point out that in a percentage of climate contributions are increasing, and this is definitely what they will do here every once in the winter, it does not take much mathematics to realize that a percentage increase from nothing is quick to rise. It's just a new project in the political field of the world, unfortunately. Of course, we should have listened to the warning messages that came some 30◯40 years ago, but we did not. Then, as I spoke of earlier, it is also an investment to attack inequities. Of course, this is primarily a matter of justice and fairness and a matter of bringing people honor. But it is also an efficient means to increase peace, progress, and prosperity, i.e. that people have the best opportunity to help, that people have the opportunity to share in all the beautiful and pleasant things that life offers, whether in sports, culture, or art. All of this eventually leads to the health of people who feel that they belong to a community of corpses, a society that is largely equal. Although we may not normally choose to view things that are that way, measures against inequities are an investment in a large number of other language groups. There's a lot of talk about prevention in all possible and impossible things. A battle against inequities is basically a prevention in every aspect of society. I also think it's strange, and I'm thinking about how vague it is what the government intends to do in education and culture. Now I realize that I may have to give her a chance to explain it better, and I think the government trident may also have to explain to the council officers who took over the budget. In view of the interview at that minute before the council meeting, they were not aware of the role they were going to play. So I think there's a big possibility that we're going to see a change in budget between 1 and 2. Um... just because the Ministers have to get their way into this new Ministry. So there are a lot of strange things about the leading of this government. But one thing is perfectly clear, i.e. that education and culture will need to play the key role in the approach we need to take on the climate threat and to cope with technological change. In the future, our good fortune will be filled with intelligence even more than ever before. Of course, we will continue to make more valuable things with conventional employment, and we are expected to strengthen it, and intelligence can also help us to cope with it. We can see this in just a number of sectors, such as fishing roads, which have become much more valuable from every fish that comes out of the sea and that they can appear in the most unlikely objects, on cosmetics, in drugs, or even bandages for diabetics. This is what we have to do in every other industry, and I think we have a lot of access to this in agriculture. I would have chosen that the strength we are providing for agriculture would eventually be developed in a way that would not force a farmer to be forced into certain food productions that may directly violate our goals in climate change but would have the opportunity to direct his interest and valuable creation into articles that are more involved in climate change, vegetable production, and so on. Farmers have shown this interest, and they want to do well, but in a sense they are captured in this system we have created. It is our job to free them from food production because the project has to be made threefold. Farmers need to be prepared to produce decent benefits, consumers wholesome, good, preferably inexpensive products, and third, the production that is in harmony with our plans, our goals, and our commitments in climate. I am much slower than I planned, so I probably have 80% left on my talk. At least I'm gonna do a little tap on a big one. One of the factors that I feel are a lack of courage and a vision for the future is housing. We have the past, despite the fact that this is the largest investment in any Iceland's life, always somehow approaching it as if it were some sort of venture investment or lottery of some kind. However, living quarters are far different from most of what we invest in and buy over our lives, especially in this country where rain and snow may cross the same day, of course, it is just a matter of basic needs, such as eating and sleeping. So we need to get closer to it, as it were, in human rights and to secure a system that enables all to live with it without having to be very uncertain. And especially is it difficult for those who work hard to earn money. This is difficult for young students, and it is difficult for rent people. I think the government will simply have to take more responsibility, although it will not be in building buildings and walls, it can be done in cooperation with the companies of the country, than we can guarantee at least a higher share of housing so that we make the housing market more predictable, fluctuating memory, and thus make knots so that this uncertainty and risk is not present today. This is especially so today, since we saw many years after the labor - farm system, which the Independence Party and the forward party laid down in their time, in bad health, and there have been long talks against. This is kind of a lack of funds, and the United States will provide the bill that we double the government's contribution to the general housing system, which will then be able to build apartments in cooperation with rural society, with the labor movement, and with unfavourable housing companies. I'm gonna jump over a few pages and end up with my own communities. Been in rural administration for quite a while, before I started here, it gives me a lot of thought to myself about how the language of a community is and how support is somehow totally free of the reality they live in. We all know what we've been doing in rural governments, and many of us have been doing it before, that the services being done, the close - knit service, perhaps the most precious thing in our society, have been abdicating of the public. A review of the money exchange between the state and rural society needs to be made seriously by what a lot of people are talking about here in this talk chair. Only in the affairs of the disabled, one of the most important cases in civilized, rich society, is 9 billion missing. so that rural communities can live up to it. We have also seen that while some amount is originally negotiated fair when it comes to moving from state to country, the Allied Act even changes the law soon thereafter, which makes the tribe more expensive than cancels negotiations. There are other areas in which we can see this. For many years, we have seen that there has been a total of 4How5 billion in the business budget for nursing homes. It is not enough to build a new nursing home; it is necessary to make sure that they can be fired. Some rural communities have been in the position to take money from other groups of people, even the interests of older people, the affairs of youth, children, sports, culture, and art, in order to pay a home in which the government was to secure business. We've seen it, and we've been tracking the results of this operation. In some cases, it has immediately been negotiated with private societies, and it is included in contracts that they do not have to pay rent, so they are in a better position already. This is done on the watch of the former health Svandís, the Svavarsdóttir Savvarsdsdóttir, and I can't help but she's just following the old recipe that Margrét Thatcher and others used, to undermine the ability of the public, in this case, to run a service that the public requires, to show that this is not possible, and then to hide it in the hands of private companies. I'm really worried about this. Now there is a minute left of this talk, and I probably need to ask for others. You get five minutes on it, so I'm gonna have to spend five minutes for the 70% that I have left. Ten minutes, says "wow." paritaprevir Einarsson. But I feel a little anxious about the future that our country is about to set sail in if we can't allow human life to receive this future with greater courage, boldness, vision, and a sense of justice than was expressed in the financial law of the King Katrín of Jakobsdóttir's daughter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u25	Madam President. Thank you. Logi A Einarsson's talk. I'd like to come up with something he mentioned in his speech, but it's all about the resources and contributions of the Union at previous levels to collect more money from the government funds through the resource budget. I'm not going to open up a discussion about how it should be and out there in the streets, but I'm going to go more into such a prince's rapture. I'd like to produce a point of view. A senator as to whether it would be possible to take this income through the tax system or whether the Coalition's position is that it needs to be in the form of today, by resource costs. We know the discussion that there is a special fee and all of it. But I think it's more complicated to solve many of the facts involved in this discussion while the approach is on the fishing industry. It would be easier to resolve some of it through the tax system, whether it was an additional tax or whatever the transfer would be. This is a prince's question that I want to roll here, whether it's a matter of permanence or whether it's more about what the overall number would be taken on this basis. We know the discussion that focuses on how this took place between smaller, large, and large preparations, how it would be distributed, the ocean fish, the bullfish, and the rest, so I think it would be better if it could be handled at the start, if it were possible to be removed from this prince's side to make any peace with the new process.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u26	Madam President. It is, naturally, always a question on the basis of what peace of mind it is. I've always had the peculiarity of the fact that it is just the categories that speak of freedom and the market economy that oppose the use of the market to determine the price. In itself, it seems to me that it is the right way to do it. However, I realize that there is a need for greater reconciliation, so I am completely open to other exports. But just to get myself right into the question: No, I don't think it should be done through the tax system, simply because it's not a tax, it's a payment for access to a very limited resource that's gonna get the chance to use. This is no different from when contractors are offering to a building or a bridge or a road. It is a desirable job for an enterprise, and it's all welcome, and it's a requirement, such as to be offered out. Why would this be different? I'm not answering this with anything else but that in a perfect world, I think it would be right for us to take this out on the market, and we can find an acceptable time and other time to create forethought, and then again, it's all another matter. So I think it's a price for using a resource, not a tax.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u27	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. The other thing that caught my attention, they were many but one thing I'd like to mention, turns toward his review of the low digital ecology of minds that can be sent to the world's end in a moment of crisis. I think it's safe to say that the Central Party and the United States are very extensive and extensive about how we approach agriculture. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's vision of food production is at home. Then I'm particularly concerned with making meat, because while some people suggest that we reduce it considerably, I think it will be considerable over time, at least I don't suppose I myself will reduce it much in the predictable future. [[The president calls.]] I ask about the eco-efficiency that comes from making meat at home, whether there are other viewpoints relevant to bringing all this meat here to the country if there is a significant change in probation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u28	Madam President. One of the highest words. The secretary of finance these days is using both the stick and the yellow root. It is useful to use in this discussion. I think we should use the carrots exactly. I think we're supposed to change our system so that farmers don't feel that way about their production right now. I think it's just a matter of time before the world's production of meat decreases. We only need to see the consumption habits of young people who consume less meat than those of our age, and I think that's good. So I think it's only wise to open up our grants, we don't have to shrink them, we should have the same strength, and make it possible for farmers to make success into the changed future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u29	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator before the talk, she had a very good tour of many things. I was just going to lower the level of what actually appeared in opposition to the same speech just before, that is, the fishing fees, and those who earn money for the state's funds. I agree a little with what we learned here that it is important that a large sum of the righteous sum be paid for the price of fishing. It's a payment for the use of a resource, it's not a tax, so I'll only get into it, too, and good word a while. It is of interest to the senator that those that are most commonly listed for marketing solutions should be shut down when this is the time. I strongly agree with what we learned here that two birds can be hit in one single blow. A measure of justice can be achieved, can be achieved far more fairly, than will increase the income of a government fund. I think it's really gotta be the way we should try to focus on now that we're discussing the budget for the delicate position of the state's funds. But what I'd like to ask you is why. A senator may be concerned about whether he has a number in mind, how much money could be gained by making the knots a more reasonable price, and then also, as to whether he is optimistic about the need for them to get better during the season, for the new sea leader has now arrived. I pointed out this in a discussion of Prime Minister's debate that the newest. A lot of talk has been made in ways other than those at the highest. Minister on board, i.e. Ministers of Independence Party and Front Class. It would be interesting to hear a point of view. Senator on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u30	Madam President. No, it's impossible for me to figure at least An accurate dollar number because it may be the nature of letting the market simply control it. When well - chosen rivers are expected to be offered higher and, when less trouble comes in, which, of course, is useful to the industry itself. So she is not dealing with burdensome expenses. There is no need, however, for us to give the access to this to the extent that we are doing and that, according to the contributions that have been made from the article in recent years, it is possible to achieve more reasonable fees at the best of the largest projects at least As to whether there is any possibility of a change with a cabinet minister from the order of left green in this department, I might not be as optimistic because I think that the changes that occurred in the last government and this was more involved in taking the Ministers of the Left Greens from the seminaries in which the government parties decided and only transferred them to a series of lawsuits where they are equally conservative, repetitive and reluctant to change, though there are no doubt some statements in their policies.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u31	A respectable president. Thank you so much for that answer. I just wanted to get to another place because, of course, we're talking about how we think the economic situation is likely to develop in the next few years. Of course, something is of utmost importance, that we may be able to grow well out of this crisis, and then it will not come, as it were. A senator turned aside from his talk so that we need to raise the curse on ordinary people and businesses, which are certainly many, as we know, for a pandemic. But see what? A senator would imagine that, e.g. we're talking about this economic growth, and we're seeing a certain deal of aggression in human relationships between the end of the bargains, of course, over and over. Does he see that the economic improvement may be slower than the government assumes in its plans?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u32	Madam President. I have a positive outlook, and I do not comment that the government is considering it in its financial plans. Let's just see what happens. Of course, the big disappointment is that the government has not had more attention to the daring talks that are about to take place in weeks and months and brought in by more thorough, better, efficient measures to improve quality of life and to reduce the tension that can develop when the labour market interests start to make a statement together. This could have been done in housing, this could have been done by great changes in child repairs, it could have been done in so many ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u33	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for a good talk raised many interesting questions. I'd like to ask a lot of questions, but I'd like to start with one. Hv. At the beginning of his speech, a senator asked something; I think that was also mentioned yesterday, where the politics were in a budget bill, that there is nothing to be heard about there. I'd like to ask you what. A senator will see if he sees the emphasis on the left party in the budget bill, which means social emphasis and conflict against inequities. Now's the time. Senator of the Continental Council. I'm so old, I remember that in the old days, there were two groups of A, there were sisters, the People Coalition and the People. Then, the Conspiracy came out of the union of certain left categories, as well as the left movement of a green supply. And there's a left category of this budget bill, a left movement. I'm saying that I'm not the focus. I think this is a classic B-and-D financial bill, i.e. Fundamental and Independence Committee. I don't say Takakicical, but there's very little politics in there, there's no social emphasis. I'd like to ask you what. A senator sees them and what they are.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u34	Madam President. It's always good when new colleagues meet us at a language place for the first time and agree with us. I hope that promises good cooperation over the next four years as a government official. I answered the question about being dead, as discussed in a policy debate, because I believe, of course, that budgets such as it appears are a clear political statement of restraint, restraint, discouragement, and indifference. After recording this, I must come to the same conclusion as before. A senator's not a budget that indicates that a left category, a radical left category, sometimes called socialist party, is at the Ministry of Presidency. Of course, it is just a bitter disappointment and makes our struggle for a better world more difficult. Just like what? A senator spoke of groups that share the same view and have a similar policy list, though there are details to be taken into account, being allies if we are to change something. They should not go along with those who work directly against their established policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u35	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's answers are clear. Perhaps it is a question of whether the left movement takes out the word left and starts calling itself something else. I'm not saying I'm confused about this financial bill, but it's at least that. Very little work for poor people. A discussion of poverty in Iceland is a very important, very big matter, and it's a complete sin, that I don't say shame, not to be taken over the affairs of poor people. We want to call ourselves an ethnic welfare community, but we are not, given this financial bill. I'd like to ask you what. A senator with regard to rural society, which is a very interesting stage, and he is an old governmentman from the north. He mentioned the lack of 9 billion. I turn to the Treaty and see that in many chapters of a strong community, cooperation with rural society is a great deal of talk. This is in the case of sports, youth, youth service, and public health, older people, disability, children, and other factors, people everywhere talk about cooperation with rural society. [[The president calls.]] Counts 'em out. Don't you think a senator that this neglect of funding has gone to large rural areas and is not the head of the administration of all too much service to a community without money?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u36	Madam President. Yeah, absolutely. I would judge because the government covenant was read. I've already put it in a shelf, he's not really an understatement in these budgets. Those beautiful words are somehow meaningless. It is a disgusting way to cut down small and large towns and villages close to the local government service in a very day - to - day contact with the people who need service, but to provide too little money and to allow the cutout to take place through the rural communities instead of having financial ministers, Prime Ministers, and other ministers responsible for their own cuts. Yes, those words are empty in the government covenants. If you try to mirror the campaign program in the budget, nothing will be revealed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u37	A respectable president. It's a great responsibility to sit at the General Assembly as a member of Congress. I don't talk about it when you're upset. Sixty-threeth of the country's senator, who so thoroughly joins in the support of democracy. I take this role very seriously, and I hope that my work will be obvious no matter how many years go, depending on how the government works. I will become critical of what may be done, but also a spokesman to find the golden average in matters, a means that ensures that democracy is active, and that the nation's interests are guided, not by a few well - connected parties. I will also have no fear of pointing to bad practices that have been practiced within these walls, both in the form of harassment and psychological violence. It is my hope that members of all classes are prepared to tackle bad traditions that have been tolerated here for far too long. As a grandchild of two generals, who came from one end of the political spectrum, I will follow their example and ensure a good balance between moral matters, but very harsh criticism, as well as cooperation in the interests of country and nation. It is fitting that one first act at each assembly is a discussion of financial matters. Few things control people's lives as much as the decisions made in that bill. They control the taxes and expenses that this country has to pay. They control the distribution of expenses to various lawsuits. Thus, it is a great responsibility for us senators to examine the budget carefully and to understand the changes that are taking place and how these changes will affect the lives of the people of the land. Then comes the first harassment practiced here at the High Council. Although two months have passed since the election made by the government to think that fall three days ago, it is the first time that we at the government stand allowed to look into the budget as it is only weeks before it has to be approved. We senators need to include in all its features. Happily, I have several decades of experience in working in the management of emergency operations in disaster areas. In such a situation, you have to get used to the need to study things very quickly and to work with limited information and yet to make decisions that strongly affect people's lives. Fortunately, I also have seamates in my company like a whale. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, with his seat on a budget committee during the last term, has come to understand the scourging and the documents of the trustees. His class saved me many days trying to learn about the complicated presentation used. I feel sorry for any people of this country who do not have such guidance to understand this important bill and how it affects his life. I also found it very interesting to see a digital revolution in the government policy file. Government agents, the highest. Ministers, it seems to use this word as its latest fashion word. But when it came to the budget bill, the only digital revolution was that we had pdf profiles one and a half days before we got the printed version. Indeed, it is a great revolution from the printed publication to look up where and how often certain concepts occur instead of having to scan these one thousand pages or so. Less than a year ago, the Ministry of finance announced the status of a digital leader who was to lead a digital revolution within the Ministry and was appointed to that position in the spring months. So it is my weak hope that this council will lead to a much more effective way of turning back and forth in the various teams of the bill, thus becoming better aware of what is changing and how it is. Before the top. The secretary of finance, who is probably having lunch, comes and points out to me the simple interactive Microsoft Power BI solution on the Ministry's Web site, that's about as useful as the pills in the pdf paper. In the digital world of business during a quarter of the century, it is only tragic to see how out - of - date paper format is used to make it more difficult for us in our government situation to ensure that the interests of this country are saved. V.E.G. As of yesterday's counter-argument, the minister of finance talked about how great it was to be able to reinvent government data in order to make better decisions. However, it is not enough for him and his staff to have access to such evidence. It is necessary to open these data and make them available to all, including us generals. It's my hope to the highest. A financial minister stopped such harassment, and one way is a better method and really a digital revolution of how the future financial products will be submitted. Then I may not, in the discussion of the next budget, make comments and tips that actually have simple explanations that could not be included in the text format used for production of these important laws. Let's go back to the bill, even though I would have been able to talk for a few more hours about the form and method of running it through in a short time that we general agents cannot properly carry out our legal role to monitor the plans and actions of the European Commission. Let's start by looking at support for innovation, which is a language I know very well after working and supporting it here on land and abroad for more than 20 years. What a joy it is to see the total cost of this group rise from year to year, leaving $288 billion! To 29.8 billion. Given that the word innovation appeared 20 times in a new government contract--yes, we also got it on pdf form--then it's really disappointing that the increase there is no greater. Those of us who have worked in innovation know that it will be better if it's done. You can see that the reinvigoration of the newly created state brings its way back to the Kingdom box. With the strong support of innovation, entering a Kingdom box in the future is being assured of more and stronger support for the Icelandic economy. With strong support for innovation, urban development outside the capital area can also be assured and thus meet the consequences of the pogrom of the marine road, which has led to a lower range of space in the country having lost the tools for living. But let's see what this money for innovation is about to do. Some 3.8 billion go to the Research Fund, which is similar to the last budget. What a joy it is that the State is investing in basic research, and it has been demonstrated in many lands that such investments are turning into a powerful innovation. However, it is sad to see that expenses for the Research Fund are expected to be greatly combined in 2024, at the same time as funding for the National Research Centres of Iceland, because of an international scientific team, we will also cut down by less than 60%. Similarly, it is a pleasure to see an increase in contributions to the Industry Fund, which supports funding in the expensive research tools and construction of the research infrastructure - rising slightly within the next year, but, unfortunately, there is still a significant reduction in plans for 2024. What a misunderstanding it is for the government to think that there will be no need for a constant renewal of research in the years to come, especially during the time of rapid changes in which we now live. It is also of interest to note that despite the beautiful declarations, the increase in food intake and innovation in that area reduces donations to the Food Fund from year to year and again, it is estimated that by 2024 donations are cut down by nearly 250 million. If we then look at the fund that is most sponsoring to innovations, the Technological Development Fund, it receives an additional 100 million this year, which, of course, is a pleasure but too small. It is also very sad to see that, as with other donations for innovation, technology funds are to be cut down in 2024. What a joy it is to see the increased donations this year, although I would have liked to see them much higher! In particular, I would have liked to see the extra funds for these earmarks marked in order to support and increase contributions to the support systems needed so that the funds fund funded for innovations will be most useful. If it weren't for a strong grass under-and-expansive work, the new environment in Iceland would be fragmented. It is also interesting that innovation in other areas is often only in word but not on the table. That's pretty funny, at least. In my opinion, seeing that various chapters have been added within the budget, and that the word "new creation " has been added. But then when you look at what's down, the lines that are under there, and the expenses, there's no innovation. It's my hope to the highest. Sadly, the ministers of these matters, which are not here, lifted the initiative to do so in vain. Of course, in the council, experienced in this field, we offer our assistance in building powerful innovations in as many areas as possible. But where does the rest of the money marked by an earmark innovation go? Yes, the two largest categories funded for innovation are 5.7 billion paid for the EU Framework Programme, on education, research and technology development, and then 10.4 billion on reimbursement of innovation and research costs for innovation companies. Let us first consider these expenses to the EU Framework Programme. Yeah, there's one of the expense teams that fell in Iceland by the entrance to the EEA. In fact, some of this amount comes back in the form of funding for research and innovation and benefits Icelandic universities and innovation companies. The sad fact is, however, that the government's support for the university and the innovation industry, to gain this strength, is not great enough, and as a result, we are not getting as much money from these funds as we could. It is also easy to make walks in order to make sure that we get more back from these funds than we pay for them. Then there's the reimbursement for innovation because of research and development costs. The big growth that has been on that point is certainly good, but I understand that the amount for that year is about to exceed twice the amount that came in there and was distributed 2020. It is a joy to see that a similar amount is expected in the coming year. I'm actually hoping that innovation companies will apply for more because this is one of the easiest ways to back up a good innovation. Once again - yes, you can - but that amount is to be cut down by 2023 and 2024. It's supposed to go from 10 billion to 5.5 billion. It is truly my hope that there will be increases in both these years of plan 2022. At any rate, I promise my former partners from the innovation community that I will actively fight for it both within the employment committee and here at the Senate Hall. A respectable president. The answer to all these new birth - related complaints will no doubt be in the process of pointing to the Ministry's new fund, Crime, which is designed to back up so - called index funds, which translates into the English name Venture Capital Funds. What a pleasure it is to have such a fund founded and established here on land, since the environment of the NG has been very fragile for decades! It is also a pleasure to see the contributions made to the fund permanently rise by some 500 million each year, while those of us who have been in the turbulent seas of innovation and pioneers for decades know that the amount of money discussed here may be small compared with the amount that pioneers need. It is not unusual, then, that one step of investment in an investment in a innovation enterprise is between 200 and 3,500 million. Thus, when it comes to real investments, these 2 billion put in each year. It is also very sad to see that almost no new funding is used by earmarks to support the release of Icelandic innovation companies on foreign soil, a release that can go to a foreign index investment that is much larger than those that the Icelandic indicator funds or the state can provide. The truth is, funding for international cooperation and presentations is hardly enough for one status value. Similarly, there seems to be a cutoff in the capital to the Norwegian partnership in this field, which has been used well by Icelandic companies, and I have personally been a successful user of its cooperation. You see, innovation knows no borders and power is the key to success of innovation in Iceland. How sad it is, then, to see that the vision published by the former government in the vision of the future foreign service has not continued until 2017! Newfounder companies in Iceland are still sitting in a position where there is not enough money to give real support to the release on foreign soil. Sadly, Iceland's foreign business representatives have been mainly used to support the release of agencies that finance the government campaign, in particular in the open - air field of fishing and agriculture. Even so, our clients have tried to perform innovation companies, which are in their best interests, but unfortunately they have often been in the times when clients should actually be caring for their families and in the innovation business, we are grateful for their sacrifices and their families. Throughout the North American partnerships, innovation companies have, including New York, Singapore, Hong Kong, and Tokyo. Through these pioneers, innovation companies can find a position and support for their release in these areas. When I was living in the Valley of Silicon, I personally took advantage of this situation. Then I used my contacts into the New World Society in Iceland to encourage the Icelandic innovation company to take advantage of this wonderful service. Sadly, however, Iceland's representatives on the board of this project had not introduced what was to be done in Iceland. This introduction led to the development of a huge increase in the service. It struck me, too, regarding the participation in Iceland on this project, that Iceland one of the northern countries had no regular representatives active within these pioneers. All the rest of the North countries have regular employees ranging from one to 15 in the Valley of Silicon alone. These fixed workers built up a network within the innovation sector in the region, as well as building a powerful network of bodies from index funds located there. Being able to open the door for pioneers into this large network made it possible for these countries to collect billions of dollars from these bodies. In addition, these steady workers were able to hold the various speed and course for a North American innovation firm, and I am convinced that investments in these workers made ten times the money back into the national economy. Iceland is not to be a dwindling boat, and is the proposal made in the above state-of-the- future foreign report to build up Iceland's client's position on the west coast of the United States, with special emphasis on the release of technical equipment, therefore important. We could even follow the example of our cousin Dana and other countries, appointing a special technical emissary with a residence there. Yeah, it's better if it's done. It is my fondest hope. Ministers of innovation, or senators of its category, who are concerned with innovation, come up here and declare that they are ready to make the needed changes to cultivate the innovation community in Iceland, thereby building a solid and permanent new economy. Let us, then, move on to the area in which this government states that it is one of the most important things in this ideal period, the climate. It was so important that it was placed in the category that the Sun gave rise to a climatic drop score, defined by young environmentalists on sectoral policy. So important that almost no increase is involved in climate - related spending, except for land healing and forestry expenses. So important that environmental innovation is cut down from year to year. You see, it is easy to talk in a declaration of green investments and innovations but to show no color when it comes to financing them. Does it remind me of the fare that took place during the last term when it was adopted that psychological services would be subsidized by the state, but then no money in making people's hope, the number of people who could not afford a psychological service, was serious? Perhaps this is the preferred class and forwarding party method to give voters and founders the left greener ill hope of obtaining actual climate surgery during this season. I'm afraid it's the same hope that those in need of psychological help were in need. So I'm pretty afraid that waiting for psychological assistance will be increased when voters realize how they've been tricked. The new climate is mainly through a climate fund, a fund that is so ludicrously low that individual projects related to innovation in climate, such as Carbiffx, have brought in funding six times the amount the government is going to deposit in a climate fund every year in the years to come. This year, from 170 million each year to 100 million each year, the government is going to increase green investments in words rather than on tables. Just like what? I have about 80% left of the talk, but it's all right, we have plenty of time until Christmas. But innovation and digital revolution - even though it's much of my interest - will not bring back the improvement in the lives of people they need right away. Yeah, I'll admit it saves me a little time to go into a health-care facility and order me some time with a family doctor like the highest level. The secretary of finance was very much talking about. But the problem is, I still have to wait months to get this time from my family doctor, even though I don't have the fear of lifting up tools and calling someone. The digital revolution is a popular word for the highest order. The secretary of finance and his colleagues in the government when it comes to solving problems that the government has no answer to. But as I pointed out at the beginning of my speech, the digital revolution does not even appear to have reached his own department. It is not enough to make applications electronic if serving still takes as long as waiting lists are still as long. So they need to attack the real problem within the public wall. The digital revolution, however, is no magic solution, and the truth is that 70% of digital revolution projects fail to produce the desired results. A respectable president. It is as I said in the beginning a great honor to sit down at the Council. I can promise a respectable president, for I will express myself in a critical but upbuilding way as to the subjects that burn on me and people in the country. It is my hope that some of the things I say here in this chair will come to mind the representatives of the board and end up at worst as a bill or course that they may kindly steal and renew as their own.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u38	A respectable president. I wish. A senator congratulates him on his virgin speech at the General Assembly. It's a pleasure to hear that there's a zealous advocate of innovation here at the council. I allow me to say right away that I may not accept all the grounds and all the views of the senator, though there are many things to agree with. Of course, the government, both in the past and that continues this terms, has placed tremendous emphasis on innovation. The budget of the person we're discussing here contains the total budget of 30 billion, which is an increase from the last budget. To answer why there is a decrease in total budget of 2020 and 2024, then it is to answer that it was greatly promoted both into competitive funds and to reimburse enterprises for research and development to address the effects of a pandemic Covid. However, in a government contract, there should be a more careful return and a temporary extension. There is now an explanation for what might appear to many Spanish people, but this is the explanation for this. The Government Treaty also requires that we not promote the competitive funds, the index, and put more funding into the Technological Development Fund so that I can't see better, and now must allow me to claim that the government will not allow any room for further support in Iceland and the importance of innovation, and the government has eyes on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u39	President. Thank you. A senator for the answers. How sad it is to hear that the funds we are here reading and discussing are already out - of - date! It's been two months since the election, and it was two months to make money. V.E.G. The prime minister also mentioned that there was something now that they had agreed on most things and that they had been struggling to develop a plan of action. Maybe they should have gone to bed, too, by making up the budget bill. It is truly my hope that all these funds and all these donations will raise and raise. You see, the words they use very often today and even use. in this declaration of its policy, it is growing rather than cutting down. There's nowhere to grow better than in the new world. In fact, if an investment is being made, if the state is investing in items associated with green innovation, then there is a very cheap amount of money on an international scale for a state to spend on sustainable and green investments, investments that will return a great deal to the state box.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u40	President. Thank you. I'm not going to belittle the fact that there are always bigger and better steps to take in the future. This group of subjects directly calls for this, too. A lot of weird things would be if they had just set a dot. Of course not, but I would now think that the broad lines were quite clear, somewhat decisive in the interest of innovation and research in the land, which is a perfect premise for our future. Of course, this can be done better. These include bridges between university society and innovation, as is now the purpose of a new Ministry, to integrate it. It can further promote innovation throughout the country, through knowledge centres and digital carpenters, etc., promote long - term health care, especially in the country, and further connect sceptical companies to our medical institutions, and so on. I promise the senator that we will always be available in a conversation about what might be done better, but the government is on the right track.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u41	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for declarations that he would like to work together on these issues. I am truly looking forward to doing what is needed to make Iceland strong, to get out of control and return to our economy, not just this year, but the next few years and decades, the investments we are making now. I just agree with what. A senator that it is important to link science and innovation and university together, and it will be nice to see how that happens in the new Ministry. I'm just saying, we'll work with you if you're willing to work with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u42	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for a nice virgin talk. He claimed to be Senator 63th of the Council. I don't know what number I am, but I know he's 13th. We're out of here. A number of questions arose when they heard the voice. The senator gives his speech, and I want to start with what he said at the outset about the bill for the budget and setting and how difficult it is to figure out the budget as a whole. I was at a fundraiser this morning, and I urged him to present his tips to the Porita Commission, eh? paritaprevir The son of Leví, Gunnarsson. I'll just take the table of contents for example. It's one and a half pages, nothing. There's no index, if I'm looking for a discussion on innovation, I have to look through everything or know in advance where it is, and many more things. Just a index would be a great, more detailed index of contents. He's a great admirer, and that's very good, actually, I don't think the information revolution is yet to Iceland, but the first motorboat hasn't even arrived in Iceland. I'd like to point out that in the budget bill, the university will have to meet the 300 billion standard. K. In the Treaty of the Treaty, we are going to use technology to improve the quality of life to the president's permission: ◯Oland is a modernisation country with a powerful technical infrastructure, and during the election season, it will focus on strengthening that situation even further. Counts 'em out. A senator that Iceland is a new-born country, so in what sense? I can't see that this government is going to promote innovation by increasing college demand by 300 million. K. and more budgets for innovation are only 1.5 billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u43	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for good questions and direct him to speak to one of our numbers in order to find out his number in the series. But this was calculated to me to be the ninth replacement senator then I must be the 63th senator. But I'd like to answer the question about Iceland being a new-born country. I think Iceland is a innovation country, despite the fact that there's a lot to do with the government's support of the sector. Iceland is a new country because we, who have been in this sector, have given an extraordinary amount of work to support other pioneers in this area. There are speed courses, there are all kinds of projects for those who want to go into pioneers and only a small part of government support. Most of the work being done there is done by volunteers who believe that giving back from their experience is something that really helps others. That is why we have spent many of our days, many nights, many of our weekends on this. There I would like to see far more government support and to give an example of this. A senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u44	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for clear answers. As for the New World of Iceland, I believe the Icelandic community is a very creative society in its nature. It's an enormously powerful music life here, and a very large amount of creation and drive and initiative in Icelandic society, but I believe Iceland is not a new-born country in any sense because of the government's support. It's just the culture that's creative and initiative and Iceland would fit perfectly, very well, as a innovation in the technical sector and in the information revolution. But I believe that the government's support is by no means sufficient, and I can give an example. I've been living in Norway and working in Scandinavia. There are all companies, especially in the financial sector that I know about, freaking out that they won't be next to both of them if they don't participate in the information revolution. Hv. A senator spoke of the Norwegian cooperation and the Silicon Valley and that the Norwegian nations fast there, if I understood it correctly, at technical headquarters, and I think it's extremely important that Iceland participates in it. I want to be at the end of this education and can give an example of the University of Reykjavík, where only five students are in ◯data science, which is a study that every company in the world swallows, but we are not far enough on that subject. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u45	A respectable president. You're right. A senator said that the government's support for innovation is not at all sufficient. If we look at it from that definition, we're certainly not a new-born country in Iceland. But I would like to mention that it is well - known that after much difficulties, innovation flourishes. We saw this in the wake of the 2008 economic collapse when new tech companies, new design companies, new things, really broke out. A few years ago, I saw the same thing happen in Norway when the oil business took a little dip, and suddenly the pioneers rose up. This is something we really need to work hard to give good support. I think there are big opportunities here, especially in the climate-related innovations field. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u46	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for a good speech and a good review of the affairs of innovation, as they see us on a newly created budget. I have to confess after the high speech debate on the innovation campaign that we heard about the last weekend, when the government presented its government contract, and in view of the fact that the government groups actually committed their own financial strategy in the recent campaign, I expected a more dynamic application to these financial institutions. In the United States, we have been speaking of the establishment of a green investment fund owned by the state, which in particular invested in climate-based activities, green high-tech industry, etc. Of course, it would be another way to follow the example of Scots and set up an official investment bank with a clear objective of directing our career into climate and green areas. I'd like to direct that question to why. A senator whether this is his concern and whether he sees anything in it in this financial bill of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u47	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good question. During the campaign, Pirates and I talked about the great opportunity to make Iceland an international knowledge and innovation center of climate. You see, there is a lot to do in that area. The innovations of climate and green technology are about to explode, really burst out, and there's opportunities. The opportunity is for pension funds worldwide, and investors around the world are looking for opportunities to finance something green and something related to the climate problem. Not only are these funds but the largest individuals in the world, such as Bill Gates, Jeff Bezos, etc., are spending tens of billions of dollars on investments related to climate. At the conference held in Scotland a few weeks ago, the United Nations reported what they call UN Innovation Hub, or UN Development Center on Climate Change. Today, this facility is nowhere at home, and here is the ideal opportunity for us Icelanders to say: "Come here to us and use the good university we have, use the great innovation we have, and really create something new in the climate.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u48	A respectable president. I would like to agree with the emphasis that appeared here in this fine answer to an answer. I see in the budget moms that are being worked on in this budget bill that although donations for innovation increase today, they are expected to get along rapidly, i.e. direct contributions to innovation, next few years, direct contributions from the State. I want to ask you why. A senator for fun, because he mentioned earlier his ancestors: How would Granddad's Rafn Ólafsson, the Einar Olgeirsson, view these budgets and the politics that appear in this government financial bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u49	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a pleasant question. In fact, I'm going to keep his vote to one of the budgets I found, and I'm pretty witty and fun, until it comes to voting on the budget. I can say, however, that my grandfather's vow was the most famous person to have been one of those who met a so - called innovation regime in 1944, if I recall correctly. There he sat down and Ólafur Thor and agreed on how we could change Iceland from being a developing country to being a Western land. They succeeded because they decided that they would want to work together for these things. [[The president calls.]] They took down the political arguments and worked together on this, and that is what we have to do within these walls, cooperate, not be harassed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u50	Madam President. We are now discussing budgets for the year 2022. We have far too little time to discuss budgets for the next year. We started all too late, and there are several reasons. Of course, the most important reason is that this government, which has renewed its vows, decided that it should hang a little longer on the thrones of power, send the council away on holiday so that it could act peacefully until elections and keep autumn elections because it was entitled to, from the consequences it has just paid off. Of course, we pointed out this in the government position when Prime Minister announced his plans to vote in the fall. This would have a bad effect on the handling of funds. One day, it would take a government to form. It was amazing, in fact, how much time that same government needed to make an agreement to continue ruling together. But all right, that's what we pointed out, saying that there was a danger that we would be in a time zone with a financial deduction. It is not good for Congress, for as the government should be aware, it is the General who still holds the legal authority, although these more things sometimes act as if they are not. A respectable president. This is the third time in five years that I experience that the Allied Congress has as good as no time to issue the government's budget, that we are driving this thing off at the end of Christmas. We can also see this in the activities of the chairman of a financial committee, who sent the case out before a financial committee had come together to decide what to say, now and what to do. We see this in the fact that reporters are informed that we may not have to call them for the committee to review their comments, since we have little time to go. As I said, a respectable president, this is the third time in five years that I experience that we have no time to work the budget properly. I'd like to say that for the first two times, there's no reason why there was a little need for that. Actually, I don't agree completely with 2016; it was the decision of a private government to sit down and wait only to announce a new election. Although the government actually exploded in the spring of 2016, they were, of course, politically clutched to wait until the fall with a new election, allowing the rage of Panama's documents only to recede, allow people to forget that. Bjarni Benediktsson's secretary of finance was also in the Panamas, not just the former Supreme Court. Prime Minister, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson Still, it is still true that it was such a need to choose this late, and in 2017 it was, of course, that the government exploded and that no more part of the council could be formed, so we were in desperate need of only one choice to make a new election. We have little to say that this series of events took place in the fall of 2017, so it can be said that in 2016 and 2017, those years where we had almost no time to pay the budget, we had at least no time. Was there a reason, in contrast to the year 2021, the time we experience in this moment simply because of this, as made clear in the case of the government and the prime minister when she announced that it should be chosen in the fall: the law says we must do so. This is very characteristic of the government. It's mine, I'm allowed, it doesn't matter how this affects democracy, it doesn't matter how it affects the capacity of the Senate to do its work well, to do the budget well. I'm not just saying that because I'm feeling that I have a problem finishing the budget in a few weeks. I say so because the mistake is happening when the council has no time to look well into the stitches of this huge and important piece of paper. We saw a total of 2016 and 2017. There were serious faults, and they could have been avoided if the law had been handled on time. We'll see just how the budget is done on a normal annual trip. They appear in September, and they are completed sometime at the end of November, December. This is how it's supposed to work. The Parliament should have four months to do the budget well, not three weeks, perhaps four, if we run all day long. And this is, as I say, a respectable president of the United States, totally despised and totally disrespected by the Allied Council of Iceland, who wields the legal authority. In this regard, the government says: "You don't need any time to learn how to employ your financial authority because we've decided already, we've got more, we've got this, we've got this, we've got this, we've got this. It will be curious to see what this government will do after four years, it will last so long, whether she intends to do it in the tradition of elections in the fall. It's convenient, of course, to send the council on vacation for a few months, to distribute what I've called political Christmas presents for an election. She doesn't have to answer for it at the council, just vote for autumn, and put up with the budget at no time, which also undermines the role of the part's surveillance at the council, our ability to address these budgets, our ability to perform our role as a trust fund. But that the budget itself and the financial programs on which the budget is based. I pointed to various points in the current financial program in the campaign that I found to be evidence that this government was adopted out - of - date and out - of - date ideologies when it came to the government's economy, as it were, to take cuts and taxes. Of course, I built this on a text that was found in the financial program, which said that in order to cope with an increased debt ratio, to cope with the increased debt collection of the state's funds, it would have to go to what they called extenuating measures. This term, the restive measures, is as far as I know the new things that most of the stock invented to hide tax rise and cutbacks, in the recent resurgence of measures. When I pointed out that there was just a plan and we were on our way to elections, and it would be ridiculous to bring up some financial programme in the event of an election and to use it to say something about the policies that this advanced government was going into the next election. But now when the budget bill comes in all too late, as we had warned and noted, we are told by the leaders of the same administrations: Well, it's not so much that the budget is going to come in late because it all rests on a financial program that has been agreed on so that some value had this financial plan. This requisite arrangement, to which I was referring, was a respectable president, who was supposed to be in the range of 1,250 billion each year from 2023 to 2025. It is not clear from these budgets whether the State's debt will be improved in the absence of tax increases and cuts. In fact, the text of the budget is very strong to suggest that there is still a time to take positive measures. Why do I say that, Mr. Honorable President? Because we read the bill on page 89 and over on page 90, with the permission of a president: Despite positive developments, it is important to remember that the State's debt will have increased by over 500 billion dollars. from the end of 2019 to the end of 2022, the criteria of the bill remain. The next few years will show the appearance of a growing debt due to continued growth and a decline in interlucency. In view of the economic benefits that we see, the importance of the budget is progressively reduced to support the economy. In these changed circumstances, it is wise to reduce the angle of the state's funds each year, thus stopping the proportion of land production in the coming years. During the following years, prolonged economic growth projections will at the same time be able to maintain a more powerful public service, increase government investments, and redirection of government funds. These are the main objectives of financial policy for the next five years, submitted along with the budget bill. This chapter, a dignified president, is so characteristic of this out - of - date view of the economy I described earlier. If the shoe fails, if the economy fails to take the same leap and hope for it, then these practical measures should be taken. I allow me to refer to repeated reports from ASI on the economic effects of Covid, on the effects of Covid in Iceland and on the effects of Covid in the financial policy of the state where it says that this view is entirely from the rhythms of most places abroad and completely at the direction of international institutions such as the World Bank and the World Bank, in contrast to us, has learned a lesson on how to deal with financial failure in 2008. They could see firsthand that cutting a crisis led to worse results for society, increased poverty, increased inequities, worse society for all. Therefore, these international institutions and most countries around us are focusing on making public investments and improving public service, not reducing it, not on economic success. Thus, if the economy is intertwined, if it goes worse, most people today believe in economics that is not since the last century, that it needs to be added to, that society's foundation is strengthened, not contracted, and that they are not due to a well - defined public service to a successful economy. So I just repeat this quote, with the permission of a president: During the following years, it will be possible to maintain a stronger public service, increase the investment of the state, and return to terms of the government's financial balance. The lack of sustained economic growth projections can be concluded that the most effective public service cannot be maintained. This must be read by the government's financial bill. A respectable president. This is this archaic vision I spoke for in the campaign that the government had and that she didn't want to know. I see it is being held in these budgets, which, of course, are of course, indicating that my project that there is going to be an increase in taxes and a cut-off by the appearance of restructuring measures will be successful, that what was set up in the budget of the last terms will be realized during this term. I just wanted to talk about what I miss in this financial bill. I don't feel that I see enough counter-important measures, measures to meet those who have been the worst out of this Covid crisis. We know that there has been an exacerbation of inequities during the crisis. I don't think it's clear from reading this bill what to do to reduce the inequities. This government is climbing indefinitely in their desire to grow to prosperity. It's their new cousin. I'm just saying, a respectable president, to be intimidated, and we've observed how they feel about it as an investment in people who were now another phrase that was widely used. I have to admit that I don't think it's an investment in people to give companies the strength to run people like that government in the last term. And I did not find an investment in people who kept unemployment too low in historical unemployment, and it was really not an investment in people to make a business agency look similar to professionals who were even trying to re-enact their employees in Covid, even with a government grant. They were trying to re-enact their staff at a worse option than it was before it was fired at Covid. A labour oce was used in a similar way because it invites employers to advise people who do not accept any job offer from employers to be taken away from their livelihood, so that they can be taken care of. What kind of investment in people is that? Take any job, in any situation, or you will lose all forwards. A lot of freedom there. This government prides itself on having done more than less in the Covid crisis. They were always talking about during their last term. At the same time, these budgets offer 2.5% of GDP while the World Bank is encouraging countries to go to 3% of their additional investments in order to achieve prosperity. Then we are not talking about some project, such as the government is getting puffed up right now, trying to spend a lot of billions of dollars in the construction of the Land Hospital. I mean, how long has it been something for the government to be proud of? It cannot be regarded as some special achievement of this government to be still building the Land Hospital and calling it a major investment in public investments. No, really. We need to take on a much more powerful addition of investments to those we'd been on a regular year trip, and we can't just take what we're doing and say, "Here's our campaign. It is not an effort, a respectable president, to do what you must do anyway, to build a new hospital. We've known that for quite a while. I would like to attend the latter part of my speech, a respectable president, to quote only the above ASI reports, in particular the ASI report on Covid and unsettling. On page 9, the good report says, with the permission of the president: ▪ Opportunities do not appear solely in the rewards of rich and poor people. Economic and economic crisis may exaggerate the situation of groups and classes. So it seems that the crisis caused by the crown virus. At the same time as in the middle class, some of the most difficult jobs have been more difficult to pay because of the preventative measures and the risk of infection, and the majority of the workers have been able to change their skills. The lowest-cost classes have their income more often than the necessary services and management functions, for example Treat the staff of hospitals, nurserys, residence homes, clerks and cleaning staff. These groups have also been much more likely than other populations to be exposed to infection. The underpayers are also more likely to do jobs that resulted in the epidemic, such as hotels, restaurants, and tourism. In contrast, large groups of people in Iceland who have found little or no economic effects of the Korean epidemic are growing by 5.6 percent since the epidemic began. This paragraph, a respectable president, is a little vivid to the group that the government forgot or perhaps only parted on purpose in the crown crisis. Now the government is going to defend, I understand, 400 million. K. in an improved mental health care programme to deal with the Covid pandemic. Of course, much more is needed, much more so. We can also see that the maintenance measures followed by the 2008 economic collapse brought back to an ever - increasing rate of disability, serious mental illness, and generally greater social feelings. This is a major reason why international institutions suggest that we really grow to prosperity, not just in the way that this government has planned. That we really have stronger support for our health systems, our mental health systems, our social systems, and that we give people the freedom to create their own opportunities but do not attach them to our poor, sealed up in boxes that they are stuck in if they want to live. Unfortunately, the government failed these groups, and the same page shows in the same report, with the permission of a president: ◯ Those who have lost their jobs have suffered the greatest failure in the crisis and have the largest load of it. The ASI labour market report published in May 2021 shows that those who lost their jobs after Covid-19 had an average of 26% lower income for loss of employment than other fully working persons. Despite this, the loss of income for jobseekers is significant or typically 37% in the first months of unemployment, despite income-related unemployment improvements. The contractions have spread in smaller and more vulnerable groups than in other Icelandic recessions, i.e. mainly through the loss of jobs and the loss of jobs, and then through inflation and a general reduction in real - life wages. This was not the government to change. She was willing to support the billions of travel services, but she was cheap when it came to the aid of unemployed and just to watch that out - of - work cases were damaged in taking any job, seeing to it whether it would be convenient for that person to take this job or whether any job situation was acceptable above his head. She was willing to watch a work agency invite companies to come and complain if the staff refused to come and work for them, which, of course, is a very sad view of people, to put them in this position. We proposed a change of opinion about the experience and knowledge that people had to take into account. A job might be rejected on the basis of its lack of knowledge or experience. Just a little less sensitive, that's all. But no, it wasn't, they didn't want to talk about their forced action on behalf of a professional driver. During the last term, I felt that the government was ready to help employers but was not ready to help those who were the worst out of the crisis. I don't see any sign that things are changing. During the last term, companies were paid to fire people. They were also paid to keep people in part - time work, which turned out to be a good part - time job, but then, after paying companies to keep people working, paying companies to run people's businesses is one of the most amazing political views I have experienced and, of course, very inhuman form. At the beginning of the season, we observe that a seated government is obviously not going to have a particularly successful cooperation with the government, despite our obvious willingness to talk and cooperate. We can see this clearly by the way the majority uses their power to take more of the committees of the council. This is made clear by the fact that the greater part reverses the leadership of the government because cooperation went so badly during the last term. I think the government could only look at itself and think of how it was to cooperate during the last term, when it took its turn and closed the initiative, which the government led to by simple accounting. Then it showed quite well how much respect and respect they had for the Senate administration that I think would explain to some extent the task of bringing the budgets all too late, sending them out for reviews without having a legal committee once in hand, planning us to do it for a short time. I mean, this was known, a respectable president, long before election. No matter what, there would be all too little time to settle the budget, no matter how fast the formation of a new government, away from this mess in the northwestern politics, and because the more part had to take over, what was it, nine weeks in deciding not to do anything in it, absolutely away from then on, it was never meant that we had far too little time to cover the budget. Now we're standing here, December 3rd, in 1st. budget and this is not fair, noble President, to the Congress, to the fact that we have the financial authority, but also to the institutions of the state that have to conduct their business by financial means, to all the people who have to work the budget after we have agreed to them, to be sure that they will not have much Christmas holidays, and this is not fair to all the new ones who are here and are made familiar with the budget at no time. They are also instructed to vote for a document that should normally be given two, three, four months to examine before making the most important vote. But everything could be done so that the government would be allowed to hang a little longer on its ministers'chairs. They also didn't have to hurry to decide not to do anything in the stock market, choosing to get back in control, but now we're in a hurry to finish this, preferably not to call a guest or a specialist to go over it with us. So I say, Mr. Honorable President: Of course we'll have guests. It's a matter of Congress in the country. We're going to have the funds, we're not going to be taken off, and we're not going to have our right to call our experts to advise us.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u51	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Ævarsdóttir Övarsdósdotir for the discourse, which was the nature of the case in a very broad way. I want to come up here and talk to you. A senator for a major offense, the great campaign of the government on mental health matters, whether or not. A senator sees this in financial terms. Now we are coming from unprecedented times because of a pandemic and a nation's mental health, a serious concern for those working in that field, whether it is a mental health disorder for adults or for children and young people. I'd like to ask you what. A senator will see if she can see any sign of real surgery in the water.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u52	A respectable president. No, I see the small sign, unfortunately, because it's the same government that agreed to subsidize psychological services and obtained at that cost assessment of 800 plus million and decided to give 100 million. K. I'd have to do it. Somehow it worked out. We also know, and that's what makes it so pathetic and important. A senator pointed out that such depression, such social isolation, as we have been experiencing, results in worse mental health. So it is directly obligatory to the government to bring counter measures against the loss of health that will result from the loss of freedom that the government has brought here. If we consider a moderate measure of action, then it is that when the government is assessing the legal measures of its travel restrictions, meeting restrictions, and all of this, it needs to give us some countermeasures. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It also means that she needs to do much better in mental health than she does in these laws. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u53	I don't know. Congress officials are to respect a one - minute talk period.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u54	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I listened to a rather tragic interview with a doctor at the Department of Justice during the days. He was talking about the situation when people were being placed inside, e.g. who have been exposed to psychiatric injury, how complicated it would be to mix a very different type of psychiatric depression, with other parts of the system in which patients are not meant to go. It would seem that there might be some form of underlying prejudice against this disease, or it would not be taken into account what kind of mental problems the person faces when finding space. So I ask. A member of the council whether it is considered the need to expand here for this patient group.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u55	A respectable president. Of course, I think it's very important to increase the numbers. This is the community that usually goes forgotten. He gets out so many times. I have seen this in my work as a member of the Psychological Association before I went to the council. And I've seen it in my work here at the council not only when it comes to the legal process but also when it comes to taking care of people's needs, when it comes to respect for the rights of people, people with mental challenges are always out of the way. We see this in the coal-black General's report on people's legal rights and we'll see it all over the system. I've talked a lot about the law and how unscrupulous and discriminating people with mental challenges, and I've been working on trying to change them. It was hardly known when I sat down at the council, so I can totally agree with it. A senator's need to be increased, and this group needs to be taken seriously and treated with respect. They're just people just like us.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u56	A respectable president. I have come here to agree with the viewpoint that I heard in my speech. A senator for autumn elections. I believe that on a normal year trip, we would be having a meaningful conversation about the outposts and the side of income to develop this work, and hopefully bring in some good money to the general public. I also believe that when the government decides, without needing to, it's a decision that's always at the expense of the public in the country. I wondered about the matter of whether the senator would have an opinion of that, for example. whether, in any way, we need to protect the public from these government practices and for this conclusion, simply by choosing when the budget needs to be performed or elected.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u57	A respectable president. Yes, I understand that in most areas where the fall is chosen, the budget is accepted in the spring. You're right. A senator says, of course, it is disrespectful to the public in the country to force the council to produce bad jobs because with such a short time to issue financial laws, the job can never be satisfying, just it can't. This is simply not enough time to do financial work. I know it twice, and then I've been able to experience it twice during a normal year's journey. How different it is to have enough time to win this huge document that really matters to the entire population in the country! It is also their indiscriminate rights to voters who chose us as sides of the government to be held at council to protect the interests of our voters. [[The president calls.]] It is also for the benefit of the whole nation that the government has some real means of making money, as it is a disrespect to the World Health Organization's financial authority to act like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u58	A respectable president. I have to agree, and I don't think it can be emphasized enough in this discussion that the government's decision to keep elections in the fall though nothing called for it, no political uncertainty, and no community situation called on fall elections, is at the expense of the public in the country. This needs to be clear, and it needs to be delivered. I've been thinking a little bit about the wording here that we're doing the budget, we're labeling almost, and we need to hurry the discussion. There is no difficulty in the discussion, and under the circumstances that are now born of a pandemic and its economic consequences, it is seldom more urgent, so I'm at a loss when I realize the consequences of their appearances clearly. The minister of finance himself is here, referring to the fact that he has, in effect, just provided a subsidiary bill, as changes in proposals are now being made. What student at school would get away with writing?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u59	A respectable president. I've often called it the self-involved administration parties, selfishness, the decision to keep autumn elections. This is with the aim of spending a little more time at the government table to distribute the country's quality, preferably without the supervision of the Generals. Because they could legally see it, they decided to do it, away from the consequences, away from what it meant for the financial work, from the fact that it would, of course, provide less time for the less part to be added to the budgeting process, now and beyond, of course, the lack of time experienced by the managers now experienced by the stakeholders, to present their indications. It's not possible, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u60	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir spoke of the long time since the last and so natural election was held. There, the council cannot do what it's supposed to do. What was most disturbing for me outside the position of the homes I've talked about several times is sale of the basic systems of Migraine communications that was announced, that I think, the week after election. I'd like to direct it to what it is. I don't know if I'm concerned with the senator, if the council doesn't have to intervene in any way before it's too late.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u61	A respectable president. Yeah, I'm just worried that society's infrastructure is private. For the private person, it is impossible to lose them because as soon as we're in trouble in business, the state is forced to intervene, apart from the way this weakens our position, weakens our ability to secure the foundation of society. Of course, I share this concern, and this is just part of the problem that has developed around keeping the election so late, to keep the council in paralysis for so long. We saw last spring that at that time, autumn elections were even. justified by the fact that they were to be a senator at the end of the summer to issue a constitution, but when it did not result in any justification for the fall elections. She wasn't there anymore. It was an advanced government that took five months of the next government, a preparatory period of budgetary, of getting into his Ministry, etc. [[The president calls.]] It's natural that it's very irreverent and unnecessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u62	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for clear answers. I'd also like to point out that there's been some kind of investment sale that no one really knows who they are. Where we're going is not clear. I believe the council needs to take up a special discussion about this and, in fact, have already requested it. I just want to ask you what. A senator whether she and her company will definitely not support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u63	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yes, of course we will participate and support the entire mind of a special discussion about these sales and about community infrastructure and how we want to place property on them. I think it's very important to have this discussion, and I'd like to commend you. A senator asked for such a discussion. I think it would be very good to have a democratic discussion about how we want to do this. Now the prime minister has proclaimed some kind of legalization, we've had no more difference in it, but, of course, I think it's rather late in the ass, when the hall has taken place, to go to some sort of legal procedure to respond than to what happens. I've heard nothing, no more than usual, what the government really intends to do, not more than just what comes out at press conferences, but this government has never been a great deal for consultation with government opposition. But we'll see what happens, and we'll see what comes out of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u64	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Övarsdósdóttir said in his speech that if the government's optimism about raising the money in the state box would not have to be cut down in public companies. But it does not worry that the government will take care of what it has done for the past four years, i.e. To find the wide banks, that will be her policy, and this wide bed will be those who live under the worst terms, with poor farms, poorer older people, and low-payers? As a result, they will be cut down again and again, having their belts tightened. Does she not agree with me that these groups are to be seriously concerned not only on the budget but also on more difficult days for the next four years?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u65	A respectable president. Yes, that's exactly what I'm worried about when I read this quote from the budget on page 6. 90, that if it doesn't work out well, there will be no guarantee of a powerful public service. Under public service, the whole package, whatever the government should do, falls to run the community, e.g. Supporting disability and older people, etc. It seems to me that if we don't get the winding economy in the next few years, it will be used as a justification to cut down just the worst, with those who can least cut it off. Of course, we also saw this in the way this government behaved in the Covid crisis, and she put no emphasis on those who were in the palace. She did little or nothing to meet those who suffered the worst in that crisis, with no jobs, as I thoroughly covered in this speech as well. So the moves, of course, are frightening, and I think it's obvious what happens if we don't see blue-smelling economy ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u66	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. I deeply agree with her, and we must not forget that during the last session and last assembly, there was one group who sat completely behind and did not receive a cent for Covid, not one cent. There were older citizens, our older people. There was no supplement for Covid. Everyone else got something. Although there was little for those most, everyone had to have some of them. Unfortunately, that seems to be the policy of this financial bill. What I'm worried about is how happy and happy the government is, which came out here and said I'm going to raise about 1% of those in pensioners over inflation. Is there any way you can compliment yourself on a 1% that doesn't bring back anything? Is this the thing that shall come, that the government shall see that these persons are not able to receive anything?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u67	A respectable president. Of course I agree. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson that it is a hollow sound to hear the Minister's compliments on this one 1%, Minister who has accepted raises in remuneration above the time I have been at the council. Started with a 44% rise as early as 2016, and then it's just gone up since then. It's as if there's no reality in how much a minister and senator's pay has gone up and how embarrassingly low the income of micro-surgents and pensioners have been held. It's like they're part of some whole nation but they don't. They can't see the connection between them. That's too bad. It just hurts really to see this group repeat the game. We've got to put them on hold, boy. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u68	Madam President. Ministers and government officials say that there was never so much money in the medical system as it is now. They just don't understand how people are complaining about the lack of service and long waiting, but the ministry is not everything that is good. People who need it, no matter what the ministers say, feel it on their own. While health professionals say that many in their ranks are succumbing to pressures, the secretary of finance simply tells them to run faster. The minister knows nothing more crazy than to increase the number of public staff, including health care professionals. The lack of understanding for healthcare professionals and the needs of patients along with cross-border problems appears to be complete. The aims of improving quality health care, increasing access to the right service, and shorter waiting time are all good and necessary, but the problem is that there is a lack of financial resources to achieve them. Both of them. A health committee and a financial committee must carefully review the health system; how to deal with where funding for the Land Hospital are predictable and if not additional funds are not available, patients will be reduced from the present time if nothing has to be done, a service that has to be done that exactly needs to be improved. Because of the effects of the Korean virus epidemic, the list of basic measures has been held out for a longer period of time. There has also been an extended period of waiting for mental health care in both children and adults. Most people wait for surgery for hip and knee replacement, but there is also a waiting period for cataract surgery and cardiac incineration. The people who are waiting for action during the wait period and under pressure and who are facing it can create great physical and spiritual difficulties. The last time I checked, almost 4,000 people waited for these surgery, and most have waited a long time. More than 1,000 people are waiting for mental - health services at the Land Hospital and well for another hundred children to wait for services to be served in BUGL. Everyone must see that this situation will not be a pleasure. The settlements are also in trouble. It is important to deal with the health - care providers'problems in the growing areas. The amount of money to the health centres has not been accompanied by an increase. There, the Southnes and the City of the Year stand out as different from the surrounding area. As a result, the inhabitants of these areas have suffered. To correct this situation, there is no waiting. We need to see changes in the budget between discussions in this regard. It is tragic that the only response to this serious situation has been that there has never been as much money available to health care as it is now, but it is obvious that almost all the additional benefits have been made to the construction of new land hospitals and other investments, compensations, and benefits. Health services themselves in patients are starving by lack of money and human resources. Some categories say that the solution is private. You can put extra money on health care from a government fund, just if they are going into private business. Private business cannot replace reliable public health care that is available to all. There should never be any doubt as to whether the health care providers of patients or health care providers outweigh. V.E.G. Prior to this year's request for a waiting list after diagnosis and service at Development and Behavioral Station, the Minister of Health answered my request. The answer stated that on June 1, 664 children were on the wait list, 360 had added the waiting list this year, while the other 304 had been on the waiting list too last year. Obviously this is not the case. And it's not particularly striking, since the Development and Behavioral Center is under the health care of the capital area. Thus, the service depends on a general legal definition of health care services. It is known that the communication between ADHD and a diminished self - image occurs right away at the age of seven to eight. The children suffer from anxiety that is at the root of a fit of anger and opposition, which is more often than not punished for which the vicious cycle is formed. An individual with ADHD who is diagnosed early and treated immediately has a much better chance of living and children treated with medications are less likely to get hooked than those with undiagnosed and untreated ADHD. This confirms the tests. By means of analysis, you will find out what you can do to cope with your child's problems. There's a shortage of psychiatrists in this country. Governments need to lie down and find ways to increase the number of mental - health professionals, encourage education, and make it attractive for Icelandic psychiatrists who work abroad to come home. Psychologists also need to expand their services under Iceland's Medical Insurance and their services need to be free of charge for children. We in the United States also want countries and communities to organise pre-supervising so that children can be treated appropriately despite the absence of a formal analysis. Some 30% of the children on the waiting list are from the country. The possibility of telecommunications and telecommunications has to be increased progressively through telecommunications systems for the region. Such the use of technology has been shown to work well. In order to achieve waiting and equal access to human resources, and to this end, the economic situation of the people in need of resources is to be made contracts with private workers who take up the analysis. Today's cost is about 130,000. if you are looking for a private person in these areas. However, if psychological services depend on health insurance, this will hardly be a problem. Despite ADHD's acknowledged disorder, due to ignorance or denial of the problem, there is still considerable prejudice. A teacher's knowledge is generally too small, and often it is parents who teach their child's problems and what works best. If the idea of a school without a separation is to be effective, the teacher's education in these materials must be improved. You might, for example. practice by highlighting disability at a teacher's school. There is also a need to increase official support for the grass root, with the ADHD organization, so that their work across the country can be maintained. Early intervention is important and that children be given appropriate support. It should enable the ADHD organisations to travel around the country through education and education for all teachers and staff at school. It is not enough just for teachers to know, support, and other school employees to need knowledge. Some would like to mean that the analysis and treatment followed for the ADHD population is too expensive for the State to submit. It would be peaceful to see calculating the long - term benefits of society that children cannot find out with professionals, suffer because of it, and do not receive appropriate treatment. A health minister's response to my inquiries showed that ADHD team of the Land Hospital is responsible for the diagnosis and treatment of ADHD for people 18 years of age and older. A waiting list for the analysis includes 717 subjects and a waiting list for treatment with a physician of 66 subjects. It is important that older people know ADHD and expect older ones to have this disorder like younger ones. Anxiety symptoms and depression may be similar to those of younger ones, and further investigation in this field is needed to include: for which treatment routes are most effective for older people. Everyone, at any age, has the right to get the best and the most accurate information about his health. Otherwise, people do not have the basis for making their own lives healthy. Madam President. The gap between pension and the lowest pay still goes wrong. The Group of Group members has repeatedly provided prime warnings about the rise in the righteous increase in social security, which has not been achieved in the eyes of the administrations. The greatest danger of poverty and economic hardship is that of those who have to rely on the disability of life, and the complex system's restrictions contribute to that danger. Help agencies have warned of a large increase in food distribution. Most who turn to them are desperate, long - suffering, single mothers, and unemployed people. The government has suggested that the income market of older people double, leaving 100,000 dollars. every month for 200,000 K. That's a good thing, but it's hardly a priority for people who can't work and who don't have a chance other than to live in a pension today of about 266,000 bucks. per month. There are only about 13% older people who are employed in paid jobs and even fewer who pay more than 100,000 dollars. per month. But the operation is inexpensive for state funds and presented as a wonderful dresser for older people. And that is true, the dresser is quite good for those who can take advantage of it, but it yields to few and not to those who live in the worst terms. A payout target has remained unchanged since July 1, 2009, and should have been twice as high today as it would have been. However, the government does not contribute to the promotion of the disability market. This low income market reduces the effectiveness of those who might otherwise work more in a good day. There is a great and valuable worker destroyed. V.E.G. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. The social and labour market minister not only stressed that ideal disability would be improved during the terms and defects of the system then ended. Although such promises have often been heard in the past, I still hope that proper steps were taken in these topics as soon as possible. They're striking, many of the conversations I've had with the microchip who ask not to get an increase in centenarians at one place in the system because they call for a decrease in another place and the situation will be unchanged or worse. They're trapped in this trap. Resurrection grows because pensions and microenergy pensions do not increase to the lowest wage rate. This is how large groups of people are held in a poverty trap. The fallout of the past few years must be reduced and the pension is rising. People who don't have the opportunity to earn jobs, some of them have no pension rights, no money income, and all trust in the social security system. The financier bill suggests that microenergy pensions increase by 1 percent over the total annual increase in pensions. As a result of this increase, pensions, whether in pensions or in disability and rehabilitation, will be about 280,000 k. (For fully formatted text, see publication) At the same time, the minimum wage insurance according to the biographer contract goes to 368,000 dollars. per month. The people who trust in the pay of an insurance agency to live will receive too little money, and the increases have not been kept in biographies. Thus, the buildup relative to minimum income insurance is considerable. The difference now between minimum income insurance and pension is about 85,000. a month, but it will be 88,000 K. January 1st, with action by the government, in the budget bill. In the United States, we suggest an increase in old age and disability biofuels in line with an increase in low wages. We've also suggested a vacation market for payments from pension funds taking steps up to a hundred thousand dollars. a month from 25,000 k., a income-free market for both desperate and old-age pensioners will be raised to minimum income insurance. According to the calculations in a report on the case published earlier this year, the cost of these changes is about 30 billion, for example it is assumed that 25% will return to the state's budget in the form of taxes. As the life span of the Icelanders grows, it is important to immediately explain the goals that older ones can live with dignity, both in better health care and in higher pensions. The group who trust in these payments is large and unacceptable for the rich that people are meant to live in poverty. Madam President. During the spring budget discussion in 20222/226, I discussed the lack of family support in this country and compared with the Norwegian countries I reiterate here. The policy of child - rearing society, and the way to fulfill the United Nations Children's Covenant as legally established, needs to be fully financed. The General Assembly of the Icelanders must see to it that this is the case. One thing that will be fully financed is a waiting period for services to children, whether by diagnosis or by consultation. Defenses against every kind of violence and neglect of children must be strengthened, and governments must never put children in dangerous situations either within the country or outside. In Iceland, children's families are far from being given as much support as they are used elsewhere in the North countries. Young people with average wages get no child benefits. No matter how many overtime hours are spent, child care is not for their children. As parents work more hard to provide their children with comfortable housing, clothing, and leisure, their children spend little time with their parents and their stress on driving and picking up from work to work. According to government policies, only the families entitled to a minimum wage receive minor compensation. So it was during the last term, and its policy continues. After that, the damage begins. Before the month's pay has reached the average of the income of married couples and couples, there are no child benefits and have been significantly reduced to the extent by the cruel declines resulting from current government policies. Even if there are some shifts in the budget bill, the total amount of money is not set up for the child relief system. The policy, however, is that child reform is the strength for poor families, not for all families, to balance the status of those who share children with others. Children's settlements are paid out four times a year. The first clearly needed change is a monthly allowance to minimise costs, including because of overwages in bank accounts, making sure that the payments become a normal part of the household's monthly operation. If Iceland is to be a child-friendly community, we need to support more children's families. In Norway, Sweden and Finland, child reforms are not related to income, but in Denmark a decrease in high income levels is introduced. The linking is in the Norwegian countries through the income tax system. The idea is that by child - reformers, the benefits of those who share children are equal to those who do not share children but who pay the highest income taxes. We in the United States, Iceland's Socialist Party, want to take a safe step toward child-friendly society and continue to suggest changes in the child welfare system to a norse role model. The cost of higher child support for more families will be far better with children and more prosperity. Madam President. Time passes so fast here in this hall and that chair. I've got to go get some ass. Laws on general apartments were approved in the summer of 2016. The uniting system is an attempt to restore to the social housing system that was deactivated by the end of the last century, with a reduction in the number of social apartments between 1998 and 2017. In this regard it is worth remembering the longest talk ever held at the Council. In May 14, 1998, she took Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, former prime minister and director of the United States, protesting the decomposition of the social apartment system. The aim of the law on general apartments is to improve the security of those below certain limits of income and property by increasing access to safe and appropriate renting. This will help to ensure that housing costs are in line with the payment of those who rent homes and usually do not exceed 25% of their income. A financial programme adopted by some of the current government groups suggests that some 3,200 apartments will be built on the basis of the year 2016◯22022. Much of this development is made up of a rescue local society founded by ASI and BSRB a few years ago, and Breets, the tenets' tenets of a Homing and Human Beings who are fired without financial goals. The apartment system is financed, so the government provides a stock supply of 18% of the total stock market. Whether it is in the building or because of it, the value of stocks is the expense of the apartment. Reykjavík has built most apartments in the general housing system for low - income workers, students, cripples, and disabled people, and others who are having trouble participating in a general apartment market. Some 73% of the amount is in Reykjavík. The general housing system must be severely fortified and much more than the government put into the budget bill and continue to build an unfavourable lease throughout the country. The main objective of the home system is increased rent - house supply and that people's housing costs will be in accordance with their ability to pay. Housekeeping is a general support to tenants who were once granted in the form of rent payments. These are monthly payments that are based on a number of households, taking into account income, possessions, and payments for housing expenses. Now they receive housing, with a total of 31,000 members of the household. Special housing support for tenants who hear community service is paid by the rural community. Farmers have asked for changes in this and for their systems to be united. Intensifications are income and property-related compensations to those who pay interest fees for their own housing. Expansion due to years of interest increases now leads to the majority of them for those who do not need them. A cab blanket so that rent can not be raised at any time, increases in housing, and even more general apartments are needed to meet those who need and want to rent homes instead of buying. Madam President. Aspects of the Northern Council in cooperation with Norwegian unions have focused on and have had open meetings for social subsidies known as workforces. Sadly, however, there is a growing number of ugly cases of modern slavery here. First, this was linked to social production, especially in construction and tourism, but today during a pandemic unemployment situation, there are also some cases of violations of employees who are in a more delicate position. The ineffable labor force is intended to increase the enterprise's profits, to reroute them in the competition. The 21st century slaves win the darkness between allowances. In fact, I feel that social subsidiary is too neat for the crime taking place when people are robbed of their wages and rights. The victims are afraid to express themselves, and they are the only ones who take a risk of the crime. The company can only pay off and move on. At worst, they're changing the social security number. Most employers, however, avoid showing respect for collective agreements, do not pay sick days, do not receive holidays or legal rests as they should, call for shifts so that work is not paid and overtime is not paid, people are even said to be voluntary. Happily, the most frequent failure to pay is to pay, but the other cases are far too many, and they focus on vulnerable groups that are young people and immigrants. Governments cannot keep quiet and leave unions alone to point out tax fraud and responsibility to eliminate what can be called the right slavery in this country. We in the United States will not keep that quiet or agree with the financial resources of the surveillance agencies. It's like the highest. The Department of Social Affairs and Employment at work spoke here under the top policy debate. The prime minister gives the hope that such activities will be fixed than those taken during the last term. In fact, I have to say, I thought it was the best. A social and employment minister talks like a minister in some whole other government but let's hope that this will lead to good works. Madam President. It should continue with Iceland banking sales without considering reorganizing the banking system for benefits to clients. The idea is to sell a bank part to finance infrastructure, but the reason why it is more beneficial than using the bank's interest every year to finance the infrastructure. The banks are truly in good shape after the pandemic, making a lot of money, for their management environment has been changed to their advantage, including the U.S.A. by reduction of the bank tax. A great deal of good reason to sell the U.S. property in Iceland is that competition is in some way promoted by selling the bank. It is clear, however, that part of the possession of one bank owned by the State goes to private hands does not change the competition between the three big banks. Having three large banks, all of which are systematicly important, is limited to market competition and can contribute to the competition regardless of whether one or two banks are owned by one person. If there is a desire to create space for diversity and more competition between markets, the overall structure of the system needs to be considered and to make significant changes. In the review of the Contestant Board for sales plans for the government in Iceland Bank, this is exactly what we're talking about. The Governing Body points out that when making decisions on such a significant sale to the State's ownership, it is important that the competitive influence of the sale is evaluated in its contents and that active competition, along with a good order, can support financial stability. They were not discussed in the report on competition. Budget and economic secretary for the sale of the shares this summer. The competitiveness department pointed out, before the sale contracts were sealed, that in the case of the development of employment in this country, the Icelandic financial market has strong merits, the borrowers have few options, and the three banks have a key position. Banks are not like any other enterprise, they have influence throughout the community, and to shape the future banking system requires a general discussion. This debate did not take place in the controversies, and it appears that the government groups have taken care of that as such, everyone is content with reinvigoration of the banks. Yet, surveys for the sale in the summer showed that less than 20% of the population thought it was time for the government to sell their banks to privates, and more than 60% thought it was premature. We in the United States have been able to talk about taking advantage of a position of large ownership in the banks and deciding how the banking system we want to see for the future with good service to people and businesses, with diversity and other advantages, with competition, intensive monitoring and consumer protection, and with a safe and low-inexpensive domestic payment. In each country, payment media are shallow. To what extent do private or foreign organisations have to be allowed to care for these fundamental areas of society and to use them for personal gain rather than for public interests? Technological progress is on the move, and the benefits of which need to be put to the public rather than just the owners of the banks. Green challenges exist, and green investments become even more important to society. We want to separate investment banking from business banking and that investment banking will not be financed by public savings. Risks to investment banking will be a concern to owners of the investment bank, not to the state. Here is an important lesson for the bank collapse. Business banking - a community bank or national bank - will, however, be funded by loans made by the Secret Bank as a sponsor. Such growth is accompanied by increasing numbers of financial markets and competitive competition that are now lacking, but we would like to have the community debate about the future of the banking system and the will of the public to be brought forward. President. In the last second, I'd like to encourage you. The budget for review of Article 7. the law on government finance, which deals with financial regulations. [[The president calls.]] Establishing financial rules in law has proved to be an error of time. It would be closer to legalizing governments to set rules for each terms rather than staging percentages and reference numbers in the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u69	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Harðardóttir of Oddný for a extensive talk, such as the senator was hoping, pointing with her knowledge of the subject. In fact, there are two things I would like to discuss with her in the previous answer, and both factors are rooted in the past as the ultimate. Secretary of finance. I'd like to consult a senator's fountain of knowledge and former Ministers regarding the work that is being done here. On the one hand, it is the government's decision to have autumn elections, although it was a total term, then to drag the legs into two months, it appears to be, in the processing of the bill, and then so imperfectly, that the minister of finance says in the same time that he proposes it will make a big change, we're just here with a number, and everyone must understand. What do you think? A senator of these tactics and especially at the time in which we are now living, where it matters how we handle our money and how we put our priorities in the ministry. Besides, I'd like to hear why. In view of the fact that the real financial bill will be first discussed on a budget with only a 60% panel of the government opposition parties, which thus do not have access to this work. My question to why. A senator and a former secretary of finance is simply this: Is this acceptable?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u70	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. First, I'd like to say that it's just been way too long since I was a financial and economic minister, so long ago, it's going to take a decade. But I can say that winning budgets in such a short time in December is not acceptable. But we can still look at this government as being together during the last terms, and in this respect it should not change so much because they had already agreed on some financial programme for the 20226. That's where their political bitch had come out. The financial bill we're discussing here is totally in harmony with that budget. Of course, we could have told ourselves and voters what they would get in the budget bill for 2022 and the next few years if these government groups went back together, as they did, they promised us to do. But the work force, and having a fall election, and then dragging the job for so long, is, of course, completely unacceptable to government opposition, and, in fact, I think it must be unannounced. U.S. senators, too. It all depends on great authority and Ministership. In the lesser part, we are not comfortable, but all members of Congress must agree that they need to strengthen the position of the council in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u71	President. Thank you. A senator is eager to know the answer. Confronted with many of its features, of course, it is quite accurate that it is actually even more surprising how imperfect this document is in view of, such as well. A senator comes in, that the journey had long been made. I'd like a later question. A member of Parliament as a member of the country's home, as a member of the Southern District, on the news that is in the bill on transport contributions. They are reduced because temporary transport campaigns are over. This was not surprising. The question is, "Where is it?" A senator is surprised to learn that this was not the case? It is recognized that we are still under the long - term average of transport, and the situation is the same, especially in the South Sea, which also carries the heat and the weight of tourists'traffic. I just want to hear some opinions. This is a senator's position.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u72	Madam President. It's still in the middle of nowhere. When it all fell down here that year it was cut down that wasn't just people's lives and limbs, lying around, and maintaining roads and buildings, etc. We haven't paid that debt yet, and this is a matter of traffic security. I think all those who've driven the road east of the Puppy floor and east to the Cape, the narrow and dangerous road, know what these materials are about. But it is also called for a private work on needed road reforms, such as the Elfjörður Bridge and the Horn of the Earth, etc. Maybe these payments are being reduced, and then they're just going to charge road taxes back, who knows?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u73	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir It's a great speech for a G. Harðardóttir. I made a special choice when she was talking about causes and consequences and basically put a question mark to all those waiting lists, people on waiting lists, and especially children on the list. I'd like to ask her if she doesn't share with me the concerns I have of this. There were very bad waiting lists for Covid, after Covid, most waitings have doubled, particularly in children with ADHD diagnosis. I'm asking why. A senator does not share with me the concern that the government, by the indifference it has shown in these matters, is simply building a basis for producing disability into the future, sort of on an assembly line. Government officials always marvel at it and say that there is something that needs to be done in desperate matters, that it is like a law, as if it were something that will spring from nothing. The majority of the sufferers have mental health problems. What is the standard of mental health in society? Aren't you supposed to ring all the alarm bells? Doesn't it just tell us that this is the responsibility of the government, that these are the consequences of its actions, of the waiting list system? I think that as long as it is, the government can't come back and forth again and say that it's like the micromaths rising out of something and they need to be beaten down. The government can stop this, and I'm asking you why. Senator: Does she not agree with me?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u74	Madam President. The answer is yes to a question. Senator. If we look at the group that needs to be trusted in disability and cannot do full - time work, the larger groups of those in need of mental - health care, as well as those who have musculoskeletal problems. These are the two major groups. How should we react? Of course, we are to respond with increased health care and increased work protection, as the musculoskeletal problem often comes from work stress, such as. for medical personnel who put their backs on, etc. The preventive measures must reduce costs, and we know what a family member has seen, e.g. Wait for hip replacement surgery, say that it calls for a number of expenses around a person who is hardly able to survive at home and who cannot work. The waiting lists are creating global costs, but they also create social and health problems for the future. Surely, then, these lists must be priorities. Of course, our mental - health problems are big and require special effort, and I believe only to the highest degree. Let the government handle that. Regarding everything that has to do with children: I spoke in my speech about children diagnosed with ADHD - early intervention is what is important for better and healthier lives in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u75	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter, taking his heart into it. A report that I received in spring with the wait list made my job cold. The concern of those in the health - care system was growing. Clarion is also a result of stress because they cannot see how to handle the waiting list once. What I'm also particularly concerned about right now is the lack of the government's disregard for the agreement with physical therapists, specialists, and speech pathologists. She refuses to negotiate with them, and what has been the result? Then they come up here in the public speakers, one after another from the government, claiming to have reduced medical expenses. They haven't dropped him anything, just moved him, and he's increased there. They are now paying for physical therapy and treatment of specialists and speech pathologists. [[The president calls.]] They're not doing anything right in these matters, and they're not. A senator would agree with me on that?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u76	Madam President. Many talk about the next epidemic becoming an epidemic of stress, e.g. in the Covid age and in the front line of our family. Of course, this should especially be noted because it is also a long - standing situation. Some thought that they were just working the dark between them to save their clients for a short time, but this is getting better in the second year. Sadly, then, all of us are ordinary people who do not tolerate constant stress. Now I don't like to sit at the contract table, or we're here, where experts are being negotiated, but it's obviously completely unacceptable that patients are at the expense of going to specialists and they're so big that they depend on the economy whether people reach that service or not. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u77	A respectable president. I want to thank you. The senator for an excellent speech. It went through many fields and quite deep into important issues that are vital to our having a little deep discussion about right now, when we are talking about the financial laws of the Icelandic state. I'm not going to hold on to it. The senator had some deep ideological discussion of private and government matters in the medical system, but the senator only introduced it earlier. I think it's a good distance between two members of the board where the line should be, rather than between the party I sit at the council before or at the rate of the council. Harðardóttir I'd like to ask a few questions about this, though. We all agree on that, Icelanders, I think I'm that much, at least. Most senators, that all Icelanders are entitled to health care. The government is to be paid for this service, whether it is the private person who fires it and as a result are members of the intermediate group or whatever. I think we'd all like to promote Iceland's health insurance as a party that could negotiate private business with people who are important for improving their services. Of course, all of us want our service to be the best. Without a deep discussion of where the separation is going, I'd like to direct that question to the question. Whether we can agree on that in this room and whether it is not important to take that discussion now too - although it is relatively new to agree with health policy to 2030, in the meantime, there has been a natural pandemic that has brought our attention to the health system's weaknesses - whether it has not been of very little depth to find the precise limits and divorce. What should be in the hospital, what should be in the medical facility in the country, where private business could be relieved of the public business and the street? Does not the discussion of this need to continue with depth despite just having a health policy?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u78	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for the questions, and he won't have to worry about me going to the bottom when I have only two minutes. When we look at our health system, it's mixed. But if we've been tracking the development of medical funding, the public system will fit and we'll need to do better. We need to strengthen the Land Hospital, the Health Centres for the country, and we need to strengthen the public health care and health care that will be available throughout the country. This does not mean that we should turn what is now in our private business into public business. But when we're finding priorities, it's the public service that needs to be strengthened. I think it's important when we talk about making service contracts with private people about all kinds of special services that we need, that's us, that's the public that defines the needs and what it is we want to buy. But it is not so common in our system, unfortunately, that it is those who want to sell it to the State that define it and say how it should be and who should be monitored. Those who accept such important services, a basic service supported by the health - care community, need to be monitored closely. [[The president calls.]] There are many monotonous people here and there, and there can be another kind of thought behind it, and as I said in my speech, there can never be a slightest doubt about where the interests lie, whether they are in their clinic or in the patient's wallet. [[The president calls.]] There can be no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u79	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for a good answer. We agree on much in what has been presented here. Personal service in the health sector should not be a food hole for those who are negotiated for the ministry. This must always be about the people, the ministry that the people receive, and, of course, should be well defined and monitored. I would also like to direct a question to why. There are now 100 million members of the budget bill, or earmarks, of South American health care, in the district of the Parliament. I understand that this health care should be prepared, as planned, in the year 2024, and, overall, it is about 750 million that I understand. I'd like to ask you what. The senator from the district: Does the senator feel that these timetables are likely to work, based on the financial resources set out in the budget?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u80	Madam President. It's just... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's totally... it's just... it's... it's totally... it's... it's... This is what we members of Congress need to discuss, and I really hope that those who are on a budget do so, and I will use them on a welfare committee that this will be considered in particular. First of all, it's all too late. We would have had these clinics a few years ago, and there are thousands of Southnes who are reaching out for health care in the capital area because they are not in the south. I have no comment on how the Southnes Institute has been treated, which has been financed for years, and financial contributions have not been followed by population growth, which has been very large in recent years, and the combined population has become heavier, and this requires more attention for interpretation, etc., on the basis of local composition. [[The president calls.]] To answer that question in one minute is all too little time. Let us, though, take time to review these matters before these laws are passed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u81	Madam President. As I came into my first speech, these laws on many things are unclear, i.e. how this will be done. But I'm going to give a few examples of why these budgets in many ways are not designed to increase the value or to make society a better place, but rather to reduce even the value and poorness of it. Also, if time is made, let me mention in what ways the budget hinders the opportunities to increase society's wealth and to improve terms. I'm going to start with climate issues, which I briefly introduced in my first speech. The approach in the climate has primarily been on the part of this government, to begin with, increasing the contributions to the seminary. It seems to be an independent aim to spend as much as possible on the case without making a realistic or real attempt to explain how these increased donations will improve the environment or reduce the impact of climate change. But worse still, in progress to the government climate policy, this will probably, even reduce Iceland's contribution to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, since Iceland's largest contribution is, of course, the production of very much environmental energy and the use of that energy to produce environmental products for the world, such as an aluminium. Before the UN Climate Conference in Glasgow, the government published literature on its environmental policy. I have only found the publication in English, Madam President, but will quickly attempt to translate several phrases from one of the scenarios described in this publication on how Iceland should develop into the future. There's a stage D in which I'm referring, and there's no difference that those who submit this report and these goals consider it the most promising view of the future. It speaks of a multi-organ society that will be a multi-organized society and that everyone will be very conscious. But it has become a reality, a desirable effect, in view of this stage, and it shows that there will then be no world in Iceland in this new community, the economy will depend on a multi-item small industry. It'll be less fishing, less farming, less towns and less tourism. In other words, it's a shortage, but it doesn't necessarily have to surprise us, because it is in line with so many things that have occurred from this government in the past on environmental and climate. In fact, it has to be said that we see the same thing happen in other Western countries, many of whom, while Iceland's government has set itself on top as many others as it does and draws society, the economy, together faster than anyone else, and in a country that has, in fact, a relative lower scope for such things than other countries because we already produce nearly all our energy in a renewable, environmentally friendly manner. Then it continues in this project on the future of Iceland, in the opinion of the government. At that time, the community will be based on less consumption, less consumption in society, increased emphasis on recycling and green solutions, and all of these major products, with significant reductions in waste, i.e. Waste, because people simply buy less, the standard of living has gotten worse, they are less able to buy things, and the result is that they become less waste. Travel in this scene has reduced the demand. Food has changed since people eat meat, Icelandic lamb, into various kinds of plants and groceries love them, and as a result, agriculture has changed and has moved from feeding e.g. Sheep or cattle in a different type of breeding. It continues - I see, Mrs. President, that the time goes on very fast, so I'm not going to finish this tour now, I'm going to be entitled to it until later, but the main and the reason why I'm doing it here is that the government is setting up to destroy billions of dollars on top, tens of billions, faster years after year, in reducing the quality of life and valuables in Iceland, the country that most of the country in the battle against climate change, in the battle against carbon dioxide emissions. The effects will likely be the result, as we have seen in other countries, that the production of the production of valuable things is shifted to other countries that produce energy in less environmental and renewable ways than Iceland, but even by coal burns, as in China, where the production of aluminium is not as much as in Iceland. I can see that I cannot get over except a fraction of what I was going to discuss in this talk, but I have to be content to mention the city line and the plans of transportation once more quickly because it has to do with these climate plans which, as I mentioned earlier, will probably have opposite effects on greenhouse gas emissions but will make Icelanders poorer along the way, and this is supposed to spend some dozen billion years after it's time. The city line is in a certain way the same, for it is an extremely adverse process. We have seen similar projects in other countries go far ahead of schedule, even far beyond plan, end up with such a project, in which the decision is based, not on real practicalness, but on some vague ideologies, that it goes far beyond the schedule. But what's worst about this plan is that you don't seem to have any idea how much this will cost, how much money it will cost, how much government will have to put into this next year, and probably decades, just to build it, how much it's gonna cost. The government or its representatives have not trusted in their efforts to state that the government should not finance the city's business. In other words, the government is likely to arrange both for the funding of the Union's campaign campaign in Reykjavík and then for the rest of the future. As in the climate, for what purpose is this done? Or, Madam President, what will be the real effect? We see repeatedly in these days that there is something in the affairs of this government, a declared objective, and a real influence. It's all about bandages, presentations, phrases and such. What will be the real effect on the city line? They must still squeeze in the capital area, take one lane in either direction, two lanes in which they would squeeze, and then squeeze toward traffic, as a report by a Danish adviser working on the preparation of the project, allowing them to be honest with the fact that they would need to squeeze even more traffic in order to force people into this city line. But even that may not work. Nevertheless, there are still billions of billions of dollars around here in the next few years to be spent on projects that are not simply a cause for disaster. At the same time, she ignores opportunities to maintain or increase the value of society to form by abandoning everyone's work. Now that the housing market is one of our main concerns at the council, the government decides to cancel these tax charges because of projects that have been very successful and will be expected to lead to an increase in housing prices. [[The president calls.]] In other words, so many of these are so expensive, but for want and loss.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u82	A respectable president. I listened to a fine talk. A senator who once referred to the expenses and payment of this government. I would decide that in the big history speech. A financial minister said that I felt that it was important to me, for he spoke of the fact that growth in expenses would have to continue to be more moderate than it has been. This, of course, involves acknowledging that growth has been excessive. I myself agree that we are also moderate in tax politics, that taxes get to serve the role they are assigned to serve; giving children equal opportunities, health, education, well-being, and all of that. But I wondered, and that's the question: Money is taken up with a short storm, such as the highest. The minister of finance also spoke of, and what effect is there? A senator that has this fundamental complement at the bottom, expenses, taxes? Is there an actual serious discussion here?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u83	Madam President. It may be a long jump without a tower, but the worst is when people try it, if it's a handful in front of them, they end up in the pond and I fear the government will get into it with this budget. However, the effect is that it becomes a much higher system law. I have now described this government as a system administration, and it has proved to be very difficult for the management system to set priorities for itself in order to avoid politics, in order to avoid political matters. Now, in this situation, when the government actually offers a budget bill, the whole system is in its hands, and you can only hear from the government now that they are beginning to wonder if they have to make significant changes in the financial bill of the Committee, the bill that has just been presented.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u84	A respectable president. Hv. A senator introduces it in his final statement that I was just going to ask him about the next question. That's exactly what it is. Secretary of finance. When he presented this bill, it was proclaimed here that there would be significant changes. I understood him in such a way that at best he might be putting forward something that could be called a plot of financial support. But I also wondered, in the context of the short time we have, that eight weeks of government talks caused a minister of finance to come here and put on a bill that he is doing as far as it goes because he knows he has to make changes because it has become a root of the government. How does talking about a budget bill that we all know may be different in a few days?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u85	Madam President. It can be viewed in two ways. On the one hand, it is positive that the council has the opportunity to change these laws, and there is no need for them, or what you naturally fear is that these laws were simply not ready, and the council should have nothing to find to do with them. The Ministers will simply return to the budget, the greater part of it, what changes they want to see, and then expect us to do it in that way. If the government was to fulfill the promise from the last government contract on the procreation of the Generals - I see that they did not repeat the joke in the new covenant - and allow the council to have a real influence on the budget, it might be a good thing. Sadly, though, we will likely see that the government will simply want to use the time to make continued changes for itself and for the minister of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u86	President. We talked a lot about the city line here on some grounds, and I realized that in a speech or two. A senator was talking about some tens of billions, even a year, I'm not quite sure that these figures will be successful, and that analysis, etc. has not been based on practical considerations and has not known how much business will cost. It is now not so difficult to find analysis of this on the appropriate tissues, for the Union of rural society in the capital area, etc., which explained that there was certainly a choice between the means and the most practical route, and for which it crossed the trades sector as well as how business would be added to more lanes and such. I'm just wondering what. A senator has taken a look at this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u87	Madam President. As a special amateur, I've studied all these documents and drawings and pills because they're very revealing about the plans. It also makes clear about the premises made by humans to form the premise that if this operation is not being attacked, traffic will just increase and, as a result, a city line will have to be established. In other words, it seems like this: Well, we have to do something, city line is something, let's do it. But as we look at how this economic effect is calculated, it is only during the day that there is very little behind it. It is simply overlooked that there is a second pass, despite that it is one of the premises, as I traced here earlier. [[The president calls.]] It is overlooked that moving toward other traffic with the goal of slowing it down will have some significant effect.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u88	President. So I get this right, there's information on what's expected in business. The methods used are found in similar cities and models that have been used to perform such analysis in other countries. Nothing new there and something always working out, doing better. It compares light - reading systems, wagon systems, tram systems, and so on, according to these models, with the cost. It is being added to special lanes, do not use the already existing lanes, so the area in the city line is not being confined to anything. I'll scratch myself up a little bit, considering the evidence in front of us, that's what I'm gonna do. A senator doesn't say exactly what I'm able to read from these records, and I don't understand why.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u89	Madam President. I don't understand either. But at least I respect it for what I do. A senator defending Pirate Party's policy in this case. This isn't just America's policy, it's also Pirata's policy that the government is initiating. I understand why. A senator is grateful that the government is financing the ideas of the greater part of the city of Reykjavík. However, this is not the right thing to do. A senator claims. Now I just refer to the data, and I'm sure we'll have more opportunities to discuss this city line, me and it. A senator, what he claims is not that there will be new lanes all over the city, that it is just about changing the road in the capital area. No, it's not like that. [[Up front.]] Jón Gunnarsson calling one. A senator up there, might want to, but he didn't get it done. So that many of the city's major transportation roads will be taken, including and especially to squeeze the road that is an independent goal along the line of the city.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u90	Madam President. Hv. Senator, I think there are other things Pirata and the Central Party disagrees with rather than just a city line, and one of them is climate issues. In your previous talk, I thought I heard much of the methodology of the last century: industry, industry, industry. While most other countries are looking for innovation instead of contaminated industry, it seems that the Central Party's policy is to support the Independence Party in the plans to activate and activate. But I want to ask you, I know we don't agree on this: how do you see innovation as one of the ways to cope with climate crisis?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u91	The president asks why. Senators watch their speeches.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u92	Madam President. This is the first time I have a place to say. I'd like to use this opportunity to congratulate him on the election. You're right. A senator says, we may not agree on everything, the Central Party and the Pirantics, but at times I have been we would agree on things. But because of him. A senator specifically asks about the importance of innovation on climate matters. I agree completely with him on that. The climate will be solved only by innovation, except by modern technology. However, this does not mean that the production and industry are part of the past, that making environmentally friendly metals, such as aluminum, is just something of the 20th century, if not of the 19th century. It will continue to need aluminium in all types of production, especially in innovation. And new births have frequently emerged from manufacturing fields, such as before. Many companies in Iceland have achieved remarkable results in innovation just because of aluminium production.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u93	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answers. I'd like to keep talking about innovation, but I'd like to talk about it in an agricultural field, which you mentioned earlier. I know you're a big fan of Icelandic agriculture and you've even got that. Help Iceland and I learn a new way to save carbon tracks by not cooking food. But there's something about agriculture, and especially when it comes to climates, we're in a lot of trouble telling the farmers what to do, filling in ditches, doing this, doing the other, etc. I heard a nice guy discuss the other day that this was a little bit like bringing Betty Crocker-cake boxes and on the front there's just what needs to be put in it, not that pretty cake we want. So, my question to you is, How can we work together with the farmers to provide a vision of how they can deal with the climate crisis? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u94	Madam President. It was a good and interesting question for me. I just agree that there is good reason for the government to try to cooperate with farmers in this article to create something new. I agree that there are still many broken opportunities. Yet, it does not mean approach in the way I was pleased to hear it. A senator would say, if I correctly understood him, closing his shop, shoveling in a ditch, and changing the landscape here in some sort of wetlands like before studying. We need to use this land. It's inevitable for us people in general, I'm not just talking about Icelanders. We need to use the land and do it the most environmentally friendly way. And one of the most eco-friendly things Iceland can do is eat Icelandic food, as it lowers the level of the carbon tracks. Therefore, it has been a concern to observe that in increasing numbers there has been a contribution to the import of food in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u95	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the talk, an excellent speech, but he admits that in a material way I disagreed with half of it. Any talk about a city line - where we can distinguish, it's something, you can work with it. But I'd like to draw out now that we're breaking the budget bill, including... with a lot of experience. A senator, and I came to that in my speech, my concern over the income foundation and the sustainable state fund. Since 2017, we have experienced a tremendous expansion, so by 2019, for Covid, we had an insurmountable government fund. Now predicting the International Cash Fund and the Sentencing Bank about 4,96.5,3 interest rate next year, and then the economy falls. The environment of the export industry is going to be very adverse too. It's going to be a big experience, and actually it's predicted a rising trial for them, so it's gonna be difficult for our main exports to live up to the interest we need to put a fence on the welfare system, education system, etc. [[The president calls.]] Has a what? A senator's opinion of this evolution, and then what?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u96	Madam President. I thank you for the 50 percent. I liked them very much.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u97	Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u98	We can come together now for a while, these classes, and even so. does sound like we can get together for a mutual concern about the economy and how the government seems on the budget bill to overlook the reality that we're facing. Nevertheless, it was called the highest. Secretary of finance in his prehistoric speech that it is important that financial work begin taking into account the reality of the situation at any given time. I'm just saying, "Not later dear." That could have been done on this budget bill, but it wasn't done. It simply does not look forward to the reality in the world. Rather, it is assumed that continued growth, continued expansion, could be heard at the highest level. Minister, but at the same time government funds are fired at a very severe angle, up to 200 billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u99	A respectable president. That is exactly what the Kingdom covenant has to do with the entire world's system of things. But if you're going to follow these words, I'm simply afraid of the state of the state treasure. Political as well. A senator is rightly calling for, and we both miss, that the government is afraid to prioritize both on the income side and on the outpost. That's what I'm calling out for. But talking about the outposts, of course, there are tasks that we need to take on. I completely disagree with everything. A senator says about the city line, I'm not gonna waste time on it, but it worries me to see that we are far below the long term average when it comes to investments. V.E.G. The secretary of finance said yesterday that there would be some slacker investments within the country, and I'm concerned that we should not continue to keep our investments strong, for it results in more interest, but also in better service and better infrastructure for our people. [[The president calls.]] So I'm worried about a little investment perspective from the government and I'd like to ask you why. A senator: Has he studied the section of the budget bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u100	Madam President. I have, and I share worry. Senator. I'm not gonna piss you off. A senator by talking more about the city line for now because I know why. A senator cannot return to answer. I simply want to say this in general: When considering the investment of the state or rural society, it is necessary to look at the practicality and influence of the community as a whole. I don't think an unnamed phenomenon will do that, either, as if I were shaving here. The point. A senator stressed, in regard to its internal structure, is just one of the factors that indicate that the financial work may not have been political enough, but rather the government will view it as just going on and allowing the system to do what it has been doing. In fact, we can see from the Government Constitution that it has probably not been ready when the government was made, for example, there. One minister called the Minister of Education and Child Affairs. [[The president calls.]] I think it's called the Secretary of School and Child Affairs now. So it's all been done in hand gels.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u101	Madam President. We'll discuss the budget here. The conference debate has been truly interesting and, in itself, more Polish in it than in the government contract after more than two months. In terms of the budget we discuss, the same can be said of them, there is not a lot of politics in this suit, as is significant now in view of the importance. I may come to the following, the political infrastructure of the government, but these political lines that the council is discussing, we here - we're looking at now how we want to see the basic services in this country and then how we want to handle the tax money of the common people. We're discussing government income and fees, discussing where capital comes from and how it's new. The political lines are so out there. At times, we seem a bit alike, and there are times when we intervening. How much shall the expenses be? how high are the taxes to be? How should these expenses be divided between lawsuits? How should we divide the taxes? Who is to pay what, how much favor does the homes pay, and how do they pay big banks? Then there's the part of the discussion that sits too often in my opinion, i.e. how we use the money, not in what lawsuits, but simply how well we think about the money we receive. from the taxpayers of this country and as income from the resources of these same taxpayers. I have seen in many respects that the autumn government, the first and the one that is now starting its journey, placed more emphasis on the amount than on how it works. It is not unlikely that this is because it cannot survive in the political debate. It's just easier to write a check. But this is not good. This is bad because in the big context, it means that we abuse public tax dollars and we don't get the services we really want for our community, neither the quantity nor the quality. The result of all of this, then, is that we watched the unsuspecting business of the government of Covid, and there is nothing in the maps that would indicate except that there will be continued on the same path by the government. Mr. President. I just gave my virgin talk five years ago here in the Hall of Congress, right in the financial debate, and that was a special situation. The elections had been at the end of September, and in mid - December there were political talks, all kinds of government talks, going on. Thus, the budget that had to be handed over for a New Year's convention was a form of cooperation between all classes at the council. It was a aimless document that didn't really tell any other story than then it was to be kept alive until a government formed the policy. It seems similar today, however, that there is a progressive extension of the cooperation between the three governmental parties. This is a rather aimless document, this is a system document, a word that has been used here in the symposium in this discussion. It is clear that two months, two months, last months, has been rather recent, not to say more strongly, as the secretary of finance himself told a presentation on the budget bill that he was expecting the government to make adjustments. New Ministers in all councils, new Ministry, special circumstances, and the highest. A financial minister assumed that everyone would understand the need to adjust things. They will likely also need to show understanding that a large part of the Management Board, the Council's Advisory, needs to be transferred to work with the related delays and costs that are not likely within the budget that we now address. I have to say, I'm no particular reason to show understanding that the Council has a poor budget planned when less than one month of the year survives. The situation here is only due to the political decisions of the three governments. They made fall elections. They decided that they would need to take advantage of all the shelter given to them by the king of the northwestern district. They were as ready as they were, the day the case was finished here at the General Assembly, that it seemed to surprise all counsellors who they got, except for the three officers. It was their decision. It was also their decision to bring up a presentation of planned changes to the Council of the Management Board, on the basis of single consultations, that on Sunday, November 29, a number of employees of the same plot received the news of a significant and unexpected change in the press conference of the presidents. It is the result of these three presidents' decisions that we speak here on a high-time pressure budget, which is probably not the government's bill, but it will be revealed when they know what it wants. Hv. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir published a picture of his cat, Júrí. We're friends, Júrí and that's why I remember this. In fact, the picture was not from Júrí but from his daily walk. In other words, he had a razor around his neck, and in the picture the device sent out, it was seen that what Júrí was busy every day was a trip without a promise. I've thought a lot about Júrí in connection with the first steps of a new government. The last of Jakobsdóttir's daughter, Katrín's government, does not have the same excuse for today's policies as the Council had five years ago. The problem is at home. We are here to discuss the paces of the first government, which is a perfect period without correcting and presenting the date of autumn elections in the spring. Money is a fundamental part of government management, and it simply requires more time and more respect than Iceland's government shows it here. Mr. President. Hv. Councilmen of the Revolution, the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir and Einarsson, have done quite well here on the details of the bill yesterday and today, from our perspective at Luxur, and I assume that more members of the council will leave the sound of a group of restorations. Of course, members of other classes have made a difference from their emphasis on sort. So I'm going to let myself go a little different, and I'm more likely to kill on some of the things that have caught my attention, and I think it's proper to point out, including Because I don't feel like there's a picture in the board. Now it's such a thing, for example. That one of the government party, the largest, the other, meant a tax reduction party. The fact is that economic prospects have improved since the return of the last budget bill, and this has been a significant consideration here. Yet, according to the bill, all the tax contributions are being made. We are talking about a number of expenses that rise next year by 2.5%. The next year, such an increase in alcohol costs should yield a few billion dollars in the box, a total of over 20 billion. The tobacco also goes up, and it will return 6 billion. There is an increase in oil charge, a mile charge, and a special mile tax by 2.5%, a tax of fuel will rise, and a government budget will be given up to over 10 billion next year. Then there is the proposed increase in cost to State Radio and the increase in budgets for the elderly, but this has not yet been the case with the need for them, and this is the development of nursing arrangements. So the government isn't paying taxes. I would also like to remind you of the amount of eternity that returns about 5 billion in the box and causes a considerable headache for a number of people. This is a substantial amount people have to pay, e.g. of their business, their house - to - house shopping, and it can be a great burden. There's been a lot of talk about that, including. by special administrations, that this price should be no more. No signs are seen. But I'm here to inform the House of Congress that revere will come forward, once again, a motion in that direction. In fact, the government's contribution in this matter has been a down payment of the pay and sale of ships. I'm going to allow myself, as fine as it is, to say that it may not be what burns. This decision is about priorities, and it is about reasonableness. When we talk about health matters, Mrs. President, it is clear that extra contributions are expected and that's fine, that's necessary. However, the maps still do not convince me that the increase will be useful. It hasn't been like that in the history of this government. This has been added to the budget, but it seems that more often than not, and since the situation is bad, it even seems to get worse as the rule of this government goes on. There is talk of some improvements in the Land Hospital, and of course it is of utmost importance, and this high - security space that is to be opened to reduce the pressures of the Lands Hospital's intensive care is absolutely necessary, the rehabilitation of Landakoti as well as the epidemic department in Fos Sok, which was promised earlier this year. These are things that need to happen as soon as possible. The fact is, however, that the underlying problem of the Land Hospital is such that a healthy contribution needs to be made, and protection is needed, and support is needed to be made what needs to be done is needed. What struck me in the section on health care was mainly that there is no payment on the psychological services. It struck me because it's what the Council has agreed to and wished for loneliness. It struck me because there is an enormously recognized need for this service. It struck me because we have resources, psychologists are there, but instead of turning money into health insurance so that they can negotiate with these parties, the government has been shocked by the same profession with conditions that make it impossible to do its job. One, and the worst, is the requirement for a two - year job experience in a state - driven institution when it was known that these jobs were not available. In fact, she was pulled back just before the election and hopefully permanently. It also struck me that the contributions to health insurance were not sufficiently increased so that this institution, on behalf of the state's funds, prepared in an open and transparent process with our health professionals who work outside the state - to - state health institutions, and brought together with these professionals to cut down the lists that are killing all too many people, too many families, and too many homes. Then, for one year, a contribution to mental health was temporarily increased by 400 million. K. It is similar with many other questions: What is the reason for this temporary increase? Are we not all aware that this needs to be done better, and in the long run? I'd like to move on to transportation next. I came into it only in my answers before what? Harðardóttir It says that there is a budget for construction on the road system dropped by more than 7 billion because temporary projects in the government investment campaign, the first one, are nearing completion. This cannot be read out, but it is not to continue to do so, even though it is generally recognized that we are still under a great deal of pressure in these matters, and the transport infrastructure has not improved from the financial collapse. Then I would especially like to mention that although there was a significant discussion of individual Ministers in the past government on the so-called PPP route, a mixture of private enterprise and the official structure of necessary roads, there is nothing to be discussed here, i.e. It's not about a joint investment of state and private resources in building wood or other, and you ask: Is that because it really isn't that it doesn't have to spit in structure, it's not that there's enough money here - that there's the direction of the different categories within the government on one another's corner and nothing comes out of it? I call for the government's first policy on these matters. We're talking about a contribution to education. There may be two things I would like to mention specifically. First of all, it is a reduction in a donation because of the training process. True, it was one of the counterarguments of the crown virus epidemic, but it is now that regardless of the bad guests, study is an opportunity for all people. There will not be overlooked, for there is a group of young people who live under extreme circumstances when it comes to study, and there are young people who are disabled. Much has been called after in recent years - especially when money was being added to the system because it needed a sudden change, some reaction to the negative effects of the pandemic - was seen in this group. It hasn't been done. These funds do not respond in any way to the call of those who are asking that youths be given the opportunity to improve their skills and knowledge after high school. This is not being answered today's call. If those young disabled persons after high school are trying to get into the work market, the Minister of Education is not talking to other government ministers because they are not available despite another form of appeal. I'm going to use this chair to call out because it's not the only thing that matters for these families, for these individuals and their families, but for all of us who live in this community because it's one of the things that defines us as a community, what opportunity we have to offer this group. Then, secondly, I want to spend a few words on these peculiar funds for the development of a flow system. The aim appears to be to provide access to the Icelandic movie industry when these images are not available or shown elsewhere. She is not meant to compete with any other person who may present the Icelandic language at any time. Madam President. This story has been chewed so often: The state-refuge embers, set up for the taxpayers' money, are intended for a single kind of quick-hand job, and nothing but aground has been placed on the free market in a moment. It is not unusual in itself because the cost of building such projects is so great that every operator who would take this to heart would think exactly the same. But what's unnatural is going this way when we have here a private flow band that can easily take this assignment with contracts for violations of the sum, I presume, and on the other hand, we have whole Kingdom Radio. If the aim is primarily to get the film designer into digital shapes and to preserve them, there are other ways. The government doesn't have to set up and run public employment. You can only wonder why this is the case. Could it be that a private flow band is not fine enough to care for an Icelandic movie designer? I refuse to believe that, Madam President. I think this must be a little over-thinking, and I expect the Generals to step in here. It's not just that this is going to be a financial cost, it's an unnecessary competition for a private company. It's a competition for professionals who don't grow on trees. There's a huge demand for software and technology, and I'm telling you that their energy is better spent on other and more upbuilding projects than the government's making this space on the market. According to this, it is important that the State preserves the culture by gathering rights and generating material into digital form, but it does not have to do so itself. In the affairs of rural governments, other grammatical areas, contributions to rural development are reported to increase by 2.5 billion due to changes in legal donations, which, of course, move to the rhythm of tax revenue. There is also 1.1 billion for the cost of new laws on integrating child - care services. I would like to use this opportunity to draw special attention to the position of taxpayers in Reykjavík, as a member of the Council of Smoking. I wondered how the government intends to protect their interests. In the Treaty of the Treaty, the government places great importance on cooperation with local societies and on many major projects there to work in such cooperation. It is to ensure climate goals, equal opportunities for children to engage in leisure activities and pursue a career in service to older people, to be counted only one thing and then to take over the housing market, if I recall the word correctly. Now it is that a good society has its social services to those in need; children, teenagers, disabled people, elderly ones, and others. That is certainly true, the smoke-queen taxpayers, and better, for when it comes to this particular matter; social service, social housing, and so on, they draw the carriage for their neighbors in the capital area, for their neighbors in Gardour, Hafnarfjörður, in Kópavogur, in Mosfellstown, at Seltananesi. As a result, Reykjavík is the only rural society in the capital area that collects a maximum response. In other words, the smokers take on greater responsibility for social services than their neighbors at the Great Rygvik area and as a result, pay higher taxes. This is good to bear in mind when reviewing that during the last terms, the government, the government, the greater part, changed the law on the income of your community so that you can reduce the amount of money you have made to Reykjavík. And then you ask: How will the government protect the interests of taxpayers in Reykjavík? It would be wish to see the place in a governmental or financial contract. It's not all night out yet, because there's a considerable willingness not to see discrimination in this way of considering the inhabitants of a neighboring group to the city without the government, the government groups, seeing and coming to meet it, at least. Do not add to these wrongs about the equation fund. It will be interesting to see if the taxpayers in Reykjavík have spoke with members of the government that is now being carried out in a new government contract. This was not exactly the way she was in her former life. I think, Madam President, I'm saving the climate discussion, I'm going to give her a better understanding of a talk later tonight or after an incident another day. But right at the end, I'd like to make one exception to the rule I've had here not to be asking for a special additional amount of money in the specified categories, as it is easy to do. I'd like to speak the Council of '78. The '78 anticipating organization, which is more than the human rights organization, has drawn the chariot into an incredibly powerful human rights struggle, which many are benefiting from because they have established standards, they have developed methods, they have shown that this has made a significant difference for the development of Icelandic society to the good. The '78 parties were in the budgets of 2019 and 2020, but they're not on the budget right now. I know this, and I know how huge an increase has been in requests for counseling and instruction from the organization. It is, in effect, broken and cracked at the same time that we look forward to an increase in hatred speech of various kinds and hate crimes in the sight of queer people, not just outside the cliffs. The organization has shown that they can do a good job for relatively small amounts of money. They are important for Icelandic society, and I wish that the '78 UN will have its regular budget after the bill comes back from the progress of the ocean. The budget board. It's important for so many reasons. Mrs. President, I'm going to stop for a while, but I would like to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u102	V.E.G. President. I stand here proud and filled with gratitude and humility for the opportunity to work for the good of the community here at the order of the Council. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to briefly mention the government covenant, which is a detailed document that is characterized by optimism not only of present opportunities but also of optimism that we can continue to improve our community and correct what needs to be corrected. In this context, we will discuss a bill for the budget of 2022. I believe the budget is a good reflection of the government's objective. Clearly, the situation is better in the economy than it was expected in the current year's budget. It is well known that the economic recovery proved to be greater than predicted, and it continues to appear in 2022 as a fairly strong growth rate. I allow me to state that much thought - provoking and vigorous economic actions by the government have given rise to this turbulent global epidemic and, largely, to the extent of the unprecedented situation that the entire nation is still facing. I know well from my work as a member of the local government that there were some measures taken by the governments that were crucial. These include the part - help route or part - time work, the income - related unemployment benefits, all work, the workforce starts jobs, the sports company support and special support for less - income homes that had and have the goal of equalizing children's opportunities for sports and leisure activities. The government is going to use its power to keep it going. This is both indirect support to rural society through these resources and direct support to people. I've mentioned a number of options, but to them, a number of other options could be added through the epidemic. Therefore, it can be said that the use of the money has been very effective. Unemployed employment is down to about 5%. This is clear evidence that the job life is taking over, which is good news. A powerful career is the key to our well - being and progress. In order to increase their competitiveness, as well as the ability to re-schedule, companies need to move forward, invest in tools and tools. Such trust in the government's financial affairs will give us as a nation an opportunity to grow to further prosperity. This is our largest project in the beginning of a new election period and on into the future. Work, growth, well-being, dignified president. We've said it's important that the individual is always the heart of the system, and we can see it clearly in the objective and priorities of the government, both on the current budget and since the last term. Health contributions have grown to a greater degree in figures. Health costs increase by 37% of 220 billion dollars. There is an increase in expenses from 2017, but social and insurance issues are second largest objects or 26%. In the bill presented here, contributions to health care are expected to increase by 16.3 billion. Mental - health issues are getting more space, and this is a class that needs special consideration. I trust in new health - care ministers for the projects as well as for others. And I'm also glad that there will be a $200,000 rise in the income of professional pensioners. the month at the next year, and so double. There have been steps in the child - welfare system to improve the interests of low - income workers and lower intermediate groups. That is well, and we need to agree to ease the weightier load of propaganda. In addition, the cost of social, housing and insurance services is increased by 8.1 billion in 2022 and weighing 8.1 billion in 2022. the cost of prolonged observation for 12 months is further increased by about 1.1 billion. This is equal. The largest individual investment project in the budget is the construction of a new Land Hospital, which is expected to spend 14 billion dollars on that occasion. in the year 2022. This accounts for 10.4 billion in reimbursement of research and development costs, 31.5 billion in transport, 5.2 billion in the construction of nursing homes, and 1.5 billion in Digital Iceland, for example. Clearly, then, we will continue to build up, strengthen wood, build combs, safe and efficient transport, support education, innovation, and a powerful health system. As we have seen, the financial bill here is a sign. V.E.G. President. Speaking of the housing market and property market, and then maybe I'm especially looking to us in the capital area: I think we're taking a good step, and I need to set up a special head office, which includes. has aims to agree with rural planning programmes and regional planning policies to improve the implementation of infrastructure and other services and to gain a much better perspective on land and housing, both in the present and the future. This is supported by all organizational administrations. In my opinion, this capital area has quite a reversal in which we work according to the regional structure of the capital area to the year 2040. There you can find growth thresholds, i.e. how much communities can really spread. This must be discussed together, both when it comes to building and building areas. If we look at the growth limit today, we are limited in shape. The year is 2021 and 19 years into the year 2040, with all the expectation of building at that time. We, as a community, have to look inside and say that there may be a need to take all of this together for a review, for the benefit of the people, and for the right course, as is often said. We're here, of course, in rural politics, but all of this has to do with the new department administration and planning. It's about efficiency. What I have mentioned above affects the housing market and housing prices that have increased much in recent years. Likely, some would say that such increases in many ways and, to a large extent, due to lack of property and thus the construction of housing. A respectable president. Some people always choose to watch the glass half-empty, but I choose to be optimistic, which I am now in general, and watch the glass half-full. The situation is pretty good, and it's bright ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u103	A respectable president. I am proud and humble in my first talk at the Council, a virgin talk. I'm primarily grateful for the opportunity I get to stand here today, it's not necessarily. Speaking of opportunities: Here in this country, we have plenty of opportunities to improve Iceland's competitiveness in various fields, especially in the fields of knowledge and innovation. New creations promote progress with new ideas, shapes, and discoveries. New creation is an important part of all progress. It's part of Iceland's economy that we're not gonna be submerged by the nations we're comparing with when it comes to industrial creation, the software industry, the innovation of energy and creative fields, and the opportunities we're supposed to take. Reinvestment in innovation is not just an investment in innovation; investment in climate, health - care investment, agriculture investment, oceanic investment, faster energy exchange in the country. By supporting the innovation, imagination, and creative work, we are investing in society everything, investing in people. We have all observed the unique status the country already has to produce entertainment, e.g. Film production. The countries of filmmakers compete to record and produce material here on land, understandable, our country is an amazing spectacle. This is not merely a magnificent land presentation that supports the wholesome support of Icelandic tourism but that the income we have of this can prove to be considerable. In addition, this leads to a new variety of and secondary work that we as a community need to see. I'll be happy to do this. What a joy it is, then, to see some financial steps taken in order to increase the amount of money paid to film making in Iceland! By such an action, we can improve the competitiveness and uniqueness of international relations and create opportunities for the future in ever - increasing sectors. We can join in benches with such countries as Ireland and Spain, where film production has an enormously positive effect on government income. Icelandic film production has been expanding over the past few years, and we have experts in the highest order in all areas related to film production, including the U.S. A composer, director, editer, actor, and Icelandic society have benefited from the benefits of the Icelandic economy. With increasing support, growth and development can be a contributing factor in the exciting industry. As a nation, we are expected to be able to be at the head of an equal with efficient systems and motivations that contribute to the growth of projects to the country. I have high hopes for the results of such motives. The creation of new and varied work gives us the opportunity for the future. At the same time, we need to promote film and university studies with increased financial support. Iceland has shown itself and proved globally in this area, and we can stand out as prominent, even more so. This emphasis is in harmony with what the forward movement group contributed to the election and is made clear in the government covenant and reflected in the next year's budget. This has certainly attracted the attention of foreign lands. The huge manufacturer and flow-running HBO have already declared an interest in producing movies and television programs in Iceland. This was the subject of recreation in a letter addressed to the chairman and to the backup plan Progress. A project from producers like HBO is with the largest available in the movie sector. Thus, income can become more substantial with the job creations and expertise that develop around such projects. This is a beautiful vision of the building of new jobs and even the beginning of new and more powerful support in Icelandic employment. A respectable president. If we're going to create a job, we're going to have to increase the role of innovation, and if we do, we're going to create a job and it's going to create an economy. With economic growth, we grow out of the increased debt that has occurred during a pandemic that has raged for less than two years. This enables us to improve the welfare of society. This is reflected in the funds discussed here, that we grow out of the condition that has developed in Covid in the force of green innovation. A respectable president. I hope to enter this ideal period, and it is my sincere hope that we can continue to have a broad discussion with the community of the changes to be made during the election season and thus find the best solution each time for the benefit of society all.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u104	Madam President. Where to begin? Maybe it's a little strange that we're here discussing a bill for the budget, which has been found to be not in touch with reality because it should change the debates to the rhythms of the board. Apparently, the two months in which government development took place were not used to prepare budgets, any more than they were used to ensure great and profound content in a government covenant, both thin thirteenth. Is it not true that the time was mainly used to write the State's work on yellow tickets, to put them on the wall, and then to cut down lawsuits at the Ministry of Independence? That is, in effect, the only logical explanation for why this extraordinary cluster was set in motion for the Ministry to the establishment of this government. Actually, it's one of the points that made me a little surprised to see in this financial bill. It says here, under the highest administration of page 179, that the entire budget for the litigation of the budget is unchanged by 2022 C.E. Under that team, a cabinet minister's salary in the government and their deputies, nothing else, so not even the budget bill assumed to add one minister. Yet, it is suggested that the Governing Body be enlarged. I guess this was a chair game that attacked the last minute of the head of the yellow-amp game. I suppose we're going to go over the argument there when the government comes with a synonym of changed names and number of schemes in accordance with the rules of the Board of Management and we're going to dive into what analysis is behind, what arguments are there for scattering lawsuits that live together, to put together cases that may not work well but until then we, as in fact, staff of most councils and of the general institutions of the state, in a little fog of which to go on course, and it's a little hard to work when we don't know where section is. But a man alive how hard it must be to work at the Ministry and not know where the Ministry will be in a week. There is something that management personnel could take to heart, showing a little more respect for the management staff. Who do we own, for example? talking to you about the student loan system after the Ministry of Education and Culture was run out of three pieces, moved to three Ministers? Because this is not a need to do better. If we pick up an explanation on page 6. 125 on the bill, there's good news. A total of 3.2 billion will be spent to meet an increase of over 3,000 university students in 2022. There is an enormous increase in university attendance and failure. These people are being welcomed by the colleges. Then we'll go five lines down, and that's where we say, with President's permission: In addition, contributions to the Scholars' Educational Fund and LIN uses about 0.7 billion dollars. due to fewer candidates for student loans. How will this stand? How can there be a large increase in students at the same time and a reduction in students who make good use of the student loan system? The two lines read together are a red flag showing how unhealthy the student loan system is still, although we have changed the law about it two years ago. But the reason is naturally obvious. It's the one we talked about when the Education Act was agreed on. It is that they have not responded to the basic appeal of students. The basic progress is still as low as it was last year. The basic contribution for a single student in his own house is $16,000. in a month for nine months a year, the other three months, people need to find a job because the government did not respond to the student movement's plea to guarantee unemployment in school breaks, even if it was only during the Covid period. Is this not why, at the same time as students, the number of students on student loans increases? The government has stubbornly opposed the allocation of extra funds in the student - loan system, and to whom is it affecting? The people who do not have a backland to finance the study are affected, down to the people who need to be at a housing market and cannot live in their parents'homes. The people with whom the government is possibly judging to poverty are affected by not having a forwarding system that is open to people. When we accepted a law on the Education Fund of Students here in the Hall of Congress, the local government members who are present also said that this would, of course, be improved. But no, two years later, it is not fixed, and it is a disgrace. There have been some debates as to how bad the decision was, and selfish, in the constitutions not to rush the election until spring. We did not count, as if it would take two months to renew the government covenant of groups who were in charge before elections, but with that delay the situation has been made even more narrow and worse because of the fact that it has become a system of public finances that is actually out of the question of choosing spring. We have no legal agreement that all elections are due in the spring. However, we have legalized that a financial program should be submitted until spring, followed by a financial bill being based on an approved financial programme, which will take place in the fall. Now the government did not need to renew the financial program because it is the same government, and unless it is somehow stored until spring, they work the first quarter of the season according to the old manual. The crumb we are today just reflects better than any other mistake that was choosing in the fall when it could be chosen in spring. Then I'd like to discuss the issues of climate, as well as the actions that are involved because there are not only laws on public finances that set routines but also global climate issues. It was this way when we agreed on climate issues in Paris 2015 that the world's regularity would send in its new goals for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, an up - to - date goal that should be more ambitious than the last. Now it's a little hard to draw up a time line in a speech. I'm going to see if I can make this understandable and if I can prove the indiscretion, the sleazyness, which the last government showed in the second half of my last election period. In September 2018, the European Commission's Action Programme was published, and it was a matter of action in the area that we could call community relief, which is all we do in the community, except for heavy industry and land use, in a gross way. These are vehicles, fishing ships, agriculture. According to this 2018 Action Programme, the target was to reduce community relief by 303/40%. This is based on the cooperation of the Icelandic government with the European Union because the major emissions are only tied in a joint European Union on emissions trade, so the rest was this community release. Then an updated plan will be provided in June 2020. It was presented as a great improvement, a reduction in community relief of 35%. Counted listeners may note that 35% is the same number as the 303/40% in the previous schedule so that the government's ambitions since 2018-2020 were replaced. For two years, the government's operation program was still standing. Then there is the routine that plays into this, the five - year - old routine of the Paris Treaty to update the national objective, which is, in effect, the document delivered to the United Nations, which tells black to the whites what Iceland is about to do. Such documents have been submitted twice. In September 2019, Iceland's mission was to achieve total emissions by 40%, but it was not the total release of Iceland, but was to participate in the European Union's joint target of removing emissions. Since then, Iceland should have updated its goals in February 2020. If I had said, because nine months before the UN Conference on Climate, fifth year, these updated national goals should be submitted. The 2020 conference was delayed by Covid, but the Icelandic government did not know in February 2020 when they failed on time to submit updated national goals. This is a little important because if the Icelandic government had updated its national goals at the right time in February 2020, it would have had to be submitted to the work programme published in June 2020. The increase would have been needed, instead of the increase. The increased goals would also have become available in financial programs and budgets adopted in a Senate hall in December 2020, but they did not, because the government had not yet brought up new goals. This time line, which I hope someone has achieved, shows that because of government sleazyness, because of the failure of the government to achieve higher ambitions at the right time, the budget of this year has been aimed at the out - of - date ambition of the government. The budget of 2021 would have had to reflect extra ambition and not do so. But the problem is that the budget bill for 2022 does not, either, because what was done with the budget of last spring was that an 1 billion a year was added to the total cost to climate and said that it would be possible to get us back to our new goals. No deep analysis, no detailed information to prove this, just believing that a billion people could make this up, which, of course, works very unfaithful, in view of the fact that this was a billion on top of what the next year's budget should be 12 billion. This one billion was to ensure the leap from 40% ambition to 55% while these 40% were taken by 12 billion. These are numbers on which there is no credibility. So next year's budget will also be too ambitious. That means, a respectable president, that for two years, 2021 and 2022, the Icelandic government is playing by means of a manual on climate matters that they themselves have said are out - of - date. That is the cost of sacrifice that we should not accept because 2030, the year in Paris, is not that far off. The goal to achieve is before 2030 and to give up the years 2021 and 2022 by having out - of - date goals is almost criminal to future generations, only neglect. Now the government has proclaimed even more ambitious goals after in fact giving my proposal to do the same here in our council hall, a goal not only to be involved with the European Union but to take on an independent national goal of 55% reduction in emissions, but, of course, it does not take place in these funds. In 2023, we may see some of the ambitions foretold. Maybe, maybe not. I'm afraid we have to keep the government in good repair on climate issues because it speaks very strangely of doing well, but the numbers don't show it. Therefore, we need to walk behind the legal requirements set out in the Kingdom covenant so that they will not be avoided. Of course, they should be higher, as I said, with a target of 50-555 percent independent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. Denmark has 70% targets, Sweden has 63%. This government is not going to take any lead in climate matters when Iceland, of course, is supposed to be able to do much better. They need to establish their goals and make sure that they have the highest priority. The Environment, Energy and Climate Minister will update the Action Programme in the first place. Real ambitions need to be seen there. Only the sum of the money involved. Although we may not be able to discuss the amount of money in the bill that has been said to be a bit of a smudge, an analysis of contributions to climate during the Parliamentary arrangement for financial planning was made last spring. The extent of this box reaches a peak in the next year, up to 13 billion in that year, and then goes down according to that schedule. Most important of all, the decision has not been made to extend attractions to clean - energy cars. While there will probably be some continuation of that trend, this is by no means the most effective way to achieve radical, organizational changes that we need to make. Next year, according to financial strategy, the five and a half billion of these 13 billion are due for subsidies on cars. 5.5 billion of 13 will go to subsidies on electrical and linking trucks, which are part of energy exchange but will also be the most suitable item for the individuals at the top of the revenue ladder. In addition, recall that this year a financial and business committee decided to extend the appeal to link trucks across what a financial minister's analysis had said. The secretary of finance said that the intention was only over and done, but instead the greater part of the Council decided to extend that section so that of these 5.5 billion probably come half to fossil fuel - related cars. Some of this money, and even some amount outside of this, flows to cars walking just for gasoline, which are cars that the rentals get invigorate to buy, which was used as a yellow root for investing in electric cars or motor trucks. If we had more specific information from the government, if we had an independent climate council that could identify these data and tell us in a neutral and professional way what these contributions are doing in the recession of greenhouse gases, we might consider it from something other than that here is just the highest station in history next year, in some form. I don't know what these 13 billion are about to drop in on emissions. I'm just a little girl. And the billion others, who are added to be called effort, are running for good projects such as - well, this is now much for agriculture, forestry, and the recovery of wetlands, all fine, but there is something that produces contractions today, something that produces contractions into the emissions that divides into the targets by the year 2030. A forest does not bind carbon in 2030 if you plant it today or in spring rather. However, this is the problem with a government who is diligent in putting things in a beautiful package but perhaps not quite as diligent to explain correctly, which may be best reflected in the fact that the minister of finance itself wrapped his tongue on a tooth and misinformedly told about this extra issue in climate history in a discussion with a financial bill. He said that by the end of a ten - year period, this would be 10 billion each year as an increase in sensitivity. But you can see here, if you look at the movie, it's 1 billion a year. 10 billion accumulated over a ten-year period, yes, certainly. But even the Board of Directors managed to spin the Minister so many times that he became confused. Is it really hope that this will not be easy for us? So it may be, too, that these 13 billion are not in the nose of cats. Let's just take a look at a review that came from the Young Environment. The only action plan. The organization reminded us that the stage of OECD for 2°C warming, what OECD has been calculated as to what the world needs to do for climate warming, estimates that annual investments need to be studying 6% of the world's land production. We are, however, a little lucky because in Iceland we've been through the exchange of contaminated energy efficiency for energy efficiency by renewable energy sources, which remains after 4% in this OECD film. Good point is this scene for 2°C, but not the one and a half degrees we need to achieve, so this is expected to be unestablished. 4% of land production, share it between the state and rural and private sector. Suppose your community and private sector are to care for half of that contribution, and the state will take care of 2%. Two percent of Iceland's domestic product is 60 billion a year. It's just what the OECD experts relax on. With 13 billion, we have just started. There are so many other things I was going to say, best I'd just jump into the '78 organizations just in the end, because of that. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson mentioned it earlier. This is so stupid, Madam President, that half would be enough. According to page 333 of the bill, the budget is reduced because a donation to the '78 organizations falls down, a donation that has become the annual assurance of a loss of funds. What's wrong with people in the area? The '78 organizations are just one of many organizations that are about to land in something similar. Each year, they are invited to spend their resources following us at the council, pursue the Ministers, and turn to new contracts, and turn that money back. It's so rude, I don't know how people think of it. I hope it's an error of the Ministry to have issued this, especially with the objective of the government's declaration of cooperation to get Iceland into the highest order in the affairs of gay people. [[The president calls.]] I hope this is an error, but whatever it is, it has to be corrected.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u105	A respectable president. I want to say something. A senator on the student loan system and students. There is no such thing as this budget bill that suggests that students have to raise their basics, raise students' birth strength, raise the student's holiday goal, or ensure their access to the unemployment insurance system, as the Board of Students has repeatedly called behind, and the student movement all. It's just a cold greeting to young people and students. I also saw that the words of students or students in the Mosaic Law did not appear in the new government. These are people who have truly taken on a life - threatening disability during the pandemic, and I just wonder and get to point them out. A senator: Can we hope that this will improve our discussion now? Would it not be a minimum requirement for a budgetary committee, and all of us here at the Council, to have a very clear explanation of what is really there in the days ahead and what the current government has in mind on the rights and ideals of students?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u106	Madam President. Yeah, it's obvious, like a cot. One student noted, that students are not mentioned in the collaborative Declaration, and if I recall correctly, there are university and research not really a matter of personal interest in this covenant but only about the careers that the government feels should serve. I am deeply concerned about the academic policy of this administration, based on the work of the Declaration and the budget bill. There was no loss of concern when news came to the top. Minister Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigurbjörn would be getting Ásdís Halla Bragadóttir into the Ministry to organise a case in that house. They suspect that there will be a little new-oriented tone about science and the highest education in the country. Is there any hope? No, I don't think so, any more than the last government to promote for four years to improve the quality of students.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u107	A respectable president. I think it is appropriate to continue talking only about the issues of young people and the future. The Treaty of a new government has much to do with human health and prevention, words that often occur, and for good reason. What is more important, when a pandemic rages with its associated preventative measures, and with the limit of communication, isolation, and loneliness. That is why it is quite disappointing to see the amount of money spent on public health and prevention of this bill. In fact, contributions to public health, prevention, and monitoring are expected to decrease from year to year and continue to decline the next year. I'd like to direct that question to why. A senator will be able to share my concerns with the government's plans.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u108	Madam President. I think this may reflect a general problem with how the budget is set up. There's been a policy, perhaps to five years, on some aspect of public health. It is then copied and taped into budgets and financial programs. When we were criticizing the fact that contributions to climate go down after the next year, we were always told that it was all right, that there would definitely be new policy some other time, and then this would rise. The problem is, this budget, such as the Declaration of Policy, may be more like a year's report, I don't want to make any noise. All the policy cops that the board did during the last term have been gathered and patched them up somehow. There's nothing new about this. If there were something new, we would not be seeing such factors as climate or public health in the long - term vision but on the contrary. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u109	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson before the speech. I'd like to ask him about the hypocrisy of climate, that incredible hypocrisy when we're talking about 13 billion going to the lawsuit, but at the same time we're selling climatic dishes for billions of dollars to use nuclear, coal, and oil. This shows that once such a source of money is started, it will be difficult to stop it. We have another example of an amazing source of profit when one animal is being swept into the ground to produce a hormone so that it can damage another animal, and that is all right because it produces so much profit. See what? A senator imagined that money can be stopped, e.g. On climate issues? And if we achieved control of all our climates and were exemplary, how much in percent, 0.000X%, would that come back on a global scale?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u110	Madam President. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator has met the question of the head by pointing exactly at the hypocrisy in climate matters, which is the world - wide problem. Now I attended the Glasgow conference last month. There was the big gap in the hall between us from rich countries of the world and the poorer countries that are beginning to experience the effects of self - change in climate change. Great hypocrisy is that in Paris, the world's nation promised a total of $100 billion to help poorer countries get over their hair, develop climate technology, and respond to negative consequences. These 100 billion were to be reached last year, and 80 billion returned, 80 out of 100. At the same time, these rich countries are taking pride in fine results at home and perhaps in scrutinizing poor countries for not doing well but in their own standing up as promised to poor countries. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u111	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer, and I cannot help but agree deeply with him. They came there on private jets to Glasgow, flew off in private jets and talked but no more. There's something else that hit me, too, right now. A senator was talking about motor cars, but I had a feeling that he was not happy that they would get subsidized because they had a fire engine, diesil. But look at it, they've got a charge of electricity for 50 miles. It usually works on most of the trips in this town and in the countryside and in the country. This is only used in 90% of cases when longer travel is required. At the same time, people may have old cars that pollute immensely, which do not kill themselves. There are others in cars that kill themselves every time in the slow corridor here when you make it a mile an hour and maybe it's an hour to go 10 miles. Is it not better, then, to be on a two-way truck, an electric vehicle, which will never cross into a fire engine?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u112	Madam President. Here we go. A senator at my empty cabin because I've forgotten all the numbers. But the point is, it's been studied with link trucks. It has been investigated how Icelandic car owners use linking cars, and the result was that a large part of their travel begins with the battery empty, so these vehicles are very often running too much in gasoline. Then, if we look at how these cars are used as rental cars, that is exactly what the battery's positive qualities will be about how the average traveler uses the car, drives a lot each day, and may not be in a position to connect with the person at night. This was always supposed to be a time-out technique, and I think we've reached the point where we need to take the next step. But what we need to do is help the people who want to get rid of their contaminated slut and move to some other vehicle, whether it's a clean electric truck or a city line or whatever we need to improve the situation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It is very important to make it possible for them to take that step so that the green revolution is not limited to those who are rich. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u113	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen are required to watch their deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u114	Madam President. Thank you. For the talk he gave earlier, a fine tour of the climate, and he only introduced what many others have spoken about here on the platform, and, of course, is a very important subject for financial matters, i.e. how all of this works. We've got fall elections, we've got a long time to figure out this thing out with the Northwestern district, they're forming a government, and then we come here and we're working on a little budget on a dog pocket. But I miss only a small talk that will not be held for months before the vote. We're going to a campaign in the fall to the summer, and we now know how the Icelandic summers are, and the reception for people in the political debate at the most may be a bit numb. I think we've all felt a little bit at the campaign that it's a little different in the summer months than at the end of winter. I wanted to hear from you. A senator whether he shares in my view that this is also a argument against the idea that it is being chosen in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u115	Madam President. First, about the doll as it did. A senator says that maybe there was a voter around the fall elections, and it's harder for me to tell about it. I think Covid is also playing in and the circumstances around it and then maybe we weren't too exciting enough, I don't know. But the big problem is this, that the Senate's surveillance role has been cut off for almost six months. For six months, an unsupervised government was in an emergency. It is extremely dangerous and serious that the government has taken that time, both by making fall elections and then by allowing the Senate to hang for two months after election rather than to solve the problem or to announce a assembly with just those who had uncharacteristically elected letters from the start.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u116	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. This is a very important point, the surveillance role the council should have. Of course, the fact that the government situation does not have a formal field for several months during the election year is absolutely unacceptable. I think most of us must see it. Then there's another, and I think that there's already some suggestions at the council to take it only, and that's the difference between us. While the Senate can't maintain its role because it is on vacation and does not get together until weeks after election in the fall, this situation is different when the government and the Ministers can be pumping out money and reflecting on the scene because of the situation they have, and I believe that a proposal is made in the council to try to deal with the situation, asking if it is not something that the senator would like to share his opinion with a Senate.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u117	Madam President. This was an expensive time just before the election, a lot of contracts that had to be signed, a lot of tables to be cut and shovels to take place. Of course it's worth it. Of course, it's nothing but part of the PR campaign campaign campaign. We took this into account in the last spring when we agreed on changes in the rules on how the senators can get their travel expenses back so that we, as private senators, did not have the advantage of people who were fighting for a new Senate seat that we could make the public pay all the trips for us. It's absurd, naturally, if a seated senator can jump anywhere in the country and just send the bill to the General and use it in his campaign. So we put a time limit on it, and of course we should do the same with counsellors and these gift bags that they're carrying around all the companies before elections.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u118	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A candidate for a broad talk on climate issues and various forms of rights. I want to start there. I would say that he mentioned the unemployment insurance that students have been looking for for a long time and that he wanted to sit at the same table as others. I would like to remind you that there is a so-called non-employment insurance fund that is financed by insurance and, as with other employees, it is paid for by students, and it goes into a non-employment fund. In its own time, it was a voluntary fund but was then taken into a government fund like many other special payments. I'm asking why. Senator: Is it not true that people who have paid a certain amount of money have been right? Is it not true that students receive at least relative compensation according to what has been paid in the fund?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u119	Madam President. It's just that I get really angry when I start thinking about it. The University of Iceland student council sent in envelopes nine times, to remind me, for the last year and a half because of the budget and all kinds of reactions to Covid, who went through this council. Nine times, that's exactly what the student council said. They're not asking for any charity. It's just asking for students who work with school, and from that salary they pay insurance, to enjoy what the insurance costs all other people, that's just simple. These are rights that people earn, they pay, but students don't get to touch this coin. Still, we have a system with a basic extension of 16,000. In a month, remember. It is a system designed to include people in school. It has to. 70% of Icelandic students work with school, the highest share in Europe. We've forced these people into the workforce. So when their jobs go away, they don't get unemployment benefits.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u120	A respectable president. I'd like to go into the climate as well. Today's talk said that we should just keep producing a lot of because we were so green. I just want to remind you of areas of dilution that happen around the studios. But I would also like to mention the silica plants that are producing silicas that are supposed to be so environmentally friendly, new to our phones and computers. Thus, in Huldavík there is an unworked silica factory, and its owner continues to restore it. However, today's core reports that at the time of the factory project, from 2016/2017, 10,500 tons of coal and nearly 3,000 tons of charcoal were used in ten months. It was 97 tons of diesel and gasoline, and carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuel were 31,410 tons and from a biomass of 33,847 tons, a total of 65,257 tons. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] While 115 tons of sulphur dioxide were released into the atmosphere, technical difficulties could not be measured. Is this justified?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u121	Madam President. The simple answer is no. It is not long ago that the Icelandic government advertised Iceland as its destination for companies who wanted to buy electricity on sale prices and did not have to worry too much about orderliness to protect the environment or people around the big business. That time has long passed. This type of craft is just an inheritance of the past that we are fortunately part of the majority of groups that have come to our senses. This man has to produce more, and more is now something that we have to break off. Despite greener production, we also need to start producing less. The world needs to achieve the same prosperity and happiness with less toys. Consider an example of electric cars. [[The president calls.]] If we were going to replace all the fuel trucks with electrical vehicles, we'd be in a state of resource depletion in so many places that it would cause environmental disaster. [[The president calls.]] That's why we need a real system change. We can't take the old model and just switch the motor into it. We need real-system changes, and they're not being seen in this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u122	Madam President. In this second speech, I'm going to try to focus on certain aspects of the budget where I have to admit to myself the shame that in my first speech, I used to go on quite often in such a complete film and practice crisis that must be kept in mind, but especially when it's time to pass a budget with some kind of longlegism without a functioning event in this context, where there's no time to work in part. It is somewhat corrosive that significant changes have already been made from the Ministry of finance between discussions in a financial committee, which means that to form less political groups who do not represent a financial committee, they are not directly linked to what governments intend to say until the case is established. and, of course, that is not acceptable. It would be right for these lines to be placed here immediately before the council so that we would not be seeing in the media today the answers in this way, because I came in on this project all work yesterday, but the financial response of the Ministry on this subject was today, with the permission of a president: The Bjarni will be Benediktsson into the Ministerial Committee and assessed for its success. I believe that, following that, a proposal from me will be made to the government for the rest of the day. That's what's said when we're in December and the budget has to run out for New Year's. After a two - month chat, the coffee chat of the leaders of the government parties, there is a powerful reason for speculation about a project like this today. But it's different, let's leave it between parts of it for now. I'd like to come up with things that were specifically expected in connection with the construction of transport workers and accept special laws during the initial period of so-called co-operation, PPP. Under them were six major projects; Ringways in the Horny River, Axes Road on Axi, a new bridge over Ebsau, also in the Sea of Sun, a tunnel of testing mountains, and a new Half - Alfön tunnel. These are not small projects, and the sound of a trumpet was sounded as though they were all near the corner. But I asked three of the government and the government officials, either by councils or by committees, yesterday how these cases were, preparing for these cooperation projects. It is an understatement to say that reply has been compromised. I would like to direct them to a budget board to try to get someone to understand this because this is important, not just for the six projects that are under here, but for me that this could affect all possibilities in the new investment of the transport system if this route, so much of which was so given, is in one way or another, sailing on the coast. Of course, it's not gonna do at the highest. If there's a stop, it's just like Dagur's corneas, nobody lives in them. We have to get a solid land under our feet in terms of how these things come forward, for as far as I know, they're stopping. It affects not just the work being done here but many others. Here, I have a printed page, a summary of the Council's website, where financial information is being compiled by the year 2022. There is now a delay of 22.4% between the years in terms of transport and telecommunication. It may be reasoned that it has been expected that a new investor will go down from year to year in view of the action projects being carried out in relation to the Covid pandemic. But what may not have been just as anticipated was the continuation of transport and communication investments. And when we look at the cumulative recession of the year 2021/2024, according to these financial data, the cumulative recession is 37%. It's beginning to see quite a lot in the new investing capacity, when the proportions have grown that way. An important project is to see in the distance of the transport program, at least in the way of hatching, so I'm to mention just two projects from the ideal thing I'm elected for, northwest. It is a Forest Coast Road, which is a road of origin. It's not a road, it's a root road, it's got the worst roads in the country. If this is the set line, there is no basis for optimism regarding its progress. At the same time, I'd like to name the Waters Road, which is, let me say, world famous for their forms, as foreign tourists visiting Whites take from the washing board that is driven by men driving around. I've come to a car that just scurried out of the road after a couple of holes in a row, where foreign tourists were stunned outside the road and could not tell how far they were landed. These are things I want to challenge. The financial committee to examine because it is of utmost importance that the challenges of transport programmes will be extended, as well as that we senators know exactly what the situation is in this cooperation work that was supposed to save so much. Besides, I'd like to mention the affairs of the British shuttle Baldur. It is now known how the condition of the ferry has been in recent years. Nine months ago, in an interview at the State Radio, the highest. A secretary of transportation, now the secretary of the wood, for a discussion on the condition of Baldur, that there is nothing to do but look forward to renewing the ferry. It says, with the permission of the president, the minister said: "This, of course, means a new ferry. I can only see that there needs to be a powerful ferry. The report later shows that Sólveig's contract, held for the spring of 2022, now in spring, has the possibility of an extension for one year. In other words, a contract for the current British vector can be extended to the spring of 2023. That means that I've given myself some particular actions being introduced in this bill because I can't believe that one Björg can be placed within the transportation department's framework. Then there's more space than there's left over the last term. However, the Britishector Baldur does not mention a single word on the hundreds of pages that the budget fills. I want to direct it to what? The legal committee is considering this matter. If we're going to be driven to the next budget by renewed Baldur, the ship will be sailed, in terms of our being able to prepare it for an advance notice. I reiterate that I encourage a budgetary committee to inquire about the method of preparing for the introduction of a new Breafjörður vector. There is no evidence of this in the budget-based bill that is available here, and if we are to wait until the next budget, as I say, there is only a few months of the contract's life period after its extension, we will be in a critical period of time and we will cease to have more solutions in the spirit of shitding than any reasonable future solution in the shipping over the British farm. I would then like to reiterate my wish that a financial committee would take the initiative to bring into the ground the views of the project all work, which seems to have not been discussed at the national level at this time, so there will be no doubt about it at the time of the case. how it stands.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u123	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Ola Bergþór of Ólason for his speech and to speak with him about transportation. I don't think it can be one of the senator's only children, most of all in the present administration or last government, or Minister who has to go through this spectacular road, which is so terrible that there's kind of a hole in the hole. I ask myself, " How can we allow our children to go to school in such a way? ' I can see that they're in the gut, and even if they happen, I don't know what, shaking at school, morning and evening. I say, how on earth are we supposed to believe that the government is about to make some money on roads and drill whole mountains if they can't even manage this way? It's so far gone that the government is already gathering to try to force something to be done in this amazing case, for it hasn't even happened, but we've been watching this year after year. I think about how much damage there was on cars, the consequences of shaking there five days of the week, ten times, morning and evening. I'm gonna ask myself, "Have a why? A senator or any belief that this government's transport program will succeed in itself? They have not begun cutting and cannot even put money in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u124	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. First of all, the damage to cars: It is obvious that this is a local tax that turns toward areas where people have to drive through the worst dirt roads to care for their daily lives. Of course, the lake road is completely incorruption, and it has been long and the school route has been until shame, telling about the circumstances of children. But there's a school drive there. Then we look at a road like the Forest Coast Road that connects the Sunfells with the Valley, which has now been so bad in its chapters that it can be said that people have simply stopped using it. He is so bad that because of these transport problems, there has been negligible traffic and cooperation between the previously abundant areas. And it is not a journey of the Gentiles, nor of the rough times of the winter, because of them; but of the way is vain and it has been a long time. Well, as I like to see it now, it's going very slowly. But if something does, it's the only way water road can cause complications in the intestine, and we just have to find ways to get to a better source of this. I have felt that we should expand a kind of transport contract of the country on a similar basis to the transport problem of the capital area, putting it in a society that is taking a handsome loan that will be paid over the long period of time and that the transport system will be brought into the present with a strong effort - which really isn't an effort, of course, it takes time - that allows contractors to organize themselves and build the strength needed to cope with large projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u125	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer and who cannot help but agree deeply with him. I don't think it's only causing bowel complications, but it's also a concussion. The best thing we did is, in effect, to oblige any minister who cares for this group to drive this way to work. Then something would be done immediately, and it would not take long to get the road back in order. There's these chapters all over the place, some really bad chapters, and you don't understand that there's no assessment on the road. It is not only traffic but also health issues because of the damage that happens from the road. Cars are spreading, and cars are damaged, and people hurt, as well as people who don't know what the consequences are for children of having to go that way, as I say, ten times a week. This tells us we should map a road like this, but I have no faith in the government's doing it, taking them out. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u126	Madam President. I appreciate the answer. I couldn't ask you why. A member of the previous stand I'm about to enter today, which turns to my confidence in the transport process as it is already under control. There are two factors that greatly reduce my confidence in the 15 - year schedule, i.e. this point involved the cooperation projects that somehow seem to be far more vague than expected. The second is a third schedule of the long - term schedule of transportation, which I think is largely out in the wind. It's one of those memos. It is far from having realistic expectations that it is financed based on the current budget of financing, based on the estimated 10.5 billion for the new implementation of the 2024 transport program. Sadly, that is not far away.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u127	Madam President. I'd like to think back with a little bit of what. A senator on this amazing work on the cooperation of transport projects adopted here at the 150th legislation, not by my vote, nor by my vote. paritaprevir Bergþór Oli's Ólason, if I recall correctly. That bill was not provided because the State could not park a road; it was not submitted because the State could not build bridges or dig tunnels. That bill was just submitted, and it was simply in a paper to avoid the rules of government finance by putting aside large projects that would otherwise not look well enough when it came to terms with state funds. There is no need for a major offense on PPP for the state to dig a tunnel, park a road, or build bridges. The government just has to decide. The only reason they have to put a special tax on people who travel through these specific means is because governments do not get together on the use of government funds for these projects. And don't you scare the steps when the role model of this co-work project was a Wallal honor tunnel? They were pointed out as successful examples of such projects. That's exactly what they say about the Vállah tunnel in this financial bill. The Society could not repay the State's debt to a government fund. That PPP thing is just a trinket, it needs to be taken over by the state. However, the government Treaty refers to continuing on the Wallal Way, even creating an official funeral society, which sounds like another surrender to the State's role and ceases to create some means of survival.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u128	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I think if we've established the laws on government finance in such a way that if we have to go to a jar about them, it couldn't have been our goal. It is simply an important task for society's business that I believe their interest is always above the financial cost of the government, especially in the current situation. If there is a law on public finances, and there is evidence to suggest regarding the implementation of transport laws in this direction, we may need to change the laws on public finances. I think that it is absolutely necessary to consider how this has been accomplished by means of that law. I think there are a lot of good things in it, forethought and discipline, but there are also things that may not have worked as planned. For example, do I mention the strange taxation grant that I discussed in my speech yesterday and under the direction of the prime minister? It has come to a very different location than the law anticipated in this regard. Now that the work that has been called since the last term has finally started to be done, we have to remember at the same time that driving is enormously high in total. [[The president calls.]] Even if we take a worthy tax from all these products, there's a total taxation on driving and driving in Iceland very high. [[The president calls.]] But if we look at the overall picture, not just the old earmarked charges, it runs a very modest part of it to business and build up the road system.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u129	Madam President. I dug up the bill on the cooperation project on transportation, and it says, with the permission of a president: So, if you are going to expand your transport, you need to hide them from the government. Only because it matters in the context of government funds where the amount is made up. It's the same state that pays it fully, or the same public, who pays it to the full and usually more expensive price if it's a PPP project. It is a firmness to create some system around it, and that is what is going to run in full force according to the Commission Declaration. I agree with the senator that this needs to be examined. If public finance law calls for such cheating, to throw dust into people's eyes, the system needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u130	Madam President. I think the core point must always be the interest of the projects. Even if we were. A senator may be at some stage disagreeing about the importance of interest in investments, but I still think that transport projects are merely the result of their nature that they involve considerable profit, even though it cannot be calculated from two decimal places. Let's watch, for example. to the effect on Siglu fun from the tunnel that was set up there. We are watching this happen now as far as the capital covenant is concerned. In effect, it involves a special program package. Perhaps it is the solution to the construction of the country, but it is not important. All these debts must eventually be paid, and that is definitely so, that while interest levels are low at this time, the private person will not be able to make the financial access of a government fund and other such matters. [[The president calls.]] It's right in front of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u131	Madam President. Thank you. A senator discussing transport matters and then brings up a discussion of things that are in the hands of the government, such as the Whaleyard and the Sunway. Even if I don't live in the district first. At that time, I live in a dress place, so the Daffy Way would be a pretty good addition to shortening my trip here every morning. That's exactly what I wanted to talk to you about. Now, a man has seen many people move to the airport and even to the city's fun, but he even works here in town, and he has especially increased after the Hafjörður tunnel became free of charge. But when you read the government covenant, there are endless talks about the wide variety of funding to do this and that, especially on transportation. Like what? A senator will often mention this to so - called co-works or PPP projects and often leads to reimbursement. However, this payoff works against accepting this development. I wanted to ask you what. A member of the council how he would feel about having a payment on this project or of having it free and financed by the funds of the state.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u132	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. As I came into my speech earlier, it is my opinion that the payload of vehicles and traffic is very high already. When we were discussing this in an environmental and transport committee during the past term, I thought at a point in view that if there were to be a special payment on specific projects, there would have to be a reduction in public traffic exchange. Then someone might ask: Wait, isn't it just a game that ends with zero? But it doesn't necessarily have to be that way because if we take this Covid period out of parentheses, which, hopefully, is not permanent, then there is a very high traffic rate in Iceland alone; tourists, Gísli Marteinn, will probably get a ride from time to time, after the streets, users who are not on their daily trips over a longer distance. In this context, this may be possible. It worked, for example. Very well with the Hafjörður tunnel, a wonderful project that went up and much more than all the business factors. Their hard work had to be carried, e.g. Surely nothing more is involved in the development of real estate prices and such things than on Aranesp, so, of course, it goes away, but it has an impact on the entire northern community. The point is, I think it has to be to get on with the project because it contains so much value in itself and, of course, it's totally crazy that we're still here without the start of a Dew Road. When I left October 2006, the project was just to be started.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u133	Madam President. Thank you. It is good to hear that both of us agree that the work on the Sunway can begin. Perhaps it is with many such assignments that when those who are in power do not have to take advantage of the ministry, they somehow end up on the priority list, just as they did about the year when antibiotics were stopped for babies who had an ear infection because of being at the highest level. Healthcare Ministers did not have children who developed ear infections. But I'd like to ask you one brief question about Baldur's ferry. Of course, all of us became very frightened when she lost her engine earlier this year, which naturally pointed to many security requirements that it does not meet. What does that count? A senator that a new ferry on Brefjord could do beyond what Baldur can do today?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u134	Madam President. I appreciate the answer. I'll start with Baldur, and then I'll try to reach one more point at the end. A new ferry process by the right month was completed, reminded me that it was, and some of the views were raised. This focuses on the transport of the area, south of the West, and possibly north, when the tunnel and the road system between the southern and northern West coasts will be restored. There are freight transports, an improved passenger position, and I am absolutely convinced that the Westerners will explode as tourist attractions in the coming years. All we see is the food of foreign parties on the instruments in which we live, so I think this is going to be about the business and passenger transport, both for individuals and for the job. Finally, I'd like to state that I consider it a perfect surrender of this government to have the goal of making the Way of Sun in 2031. [[The president calls.]] It's one of the most pathetic surrenders I've seen in transportation for a long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u135	Madam President. I want to start with the things that will have the most impact on the public in this bill. It is the fact that elections took place in the fall. And why do I say that? I say that because autumn elections are against the people of the country. The government can enjoy them as comfortable, but it must be very clear that choosing in the fall, in the present system, will always take an interest in the public in the country. The translation is simply so much for society. It includes all the expenses and income of the next year, this project for only three weeks of work, and no workplace with respect to the subject would work that way. This procedure, a respectable president, was the decision of the government. We deal with our expenses, and we discuss income in this discussion. The fact is, however, that this absurd short period of time will always take a cut on the quality of the work and the quality of the bill. Money should be government DNA. There their political ideology was made clear. There we see a view of the importance of litigation by the government. There we take care of their ideologies for income and of course for expenses. The role of the council is not merely to amend the bill, that is, to undermine the politics, to manage ways, to manage goals, and therefore this discussion needs to take time. When it becomes the second - largest interview for 30 years, the result is that work becomes smaller and weaker. This chose the government because she decided that elections should be held at the end of September instead of choosing spring. She decided, despite the fact that there were no such conditions in the community or that none of the political tremors called for it. By doing so, she was, in effect, tailoring the public to the possibility that the best thing would be done with the budget. A respectable president. Under the circumstances of an Icelandic community for the past two years, the Allied must have their place. Under these circumstances, democracy is not a problem, and it is a tragic message to the people in the country that they do not deserve minimal work practices and minimal requirements for such important matters. The discussion is never more important than it is today. Right now, it is important to have the political courage to deal with ideas. Without a political debate, the General will not be able to protect the public's interests as it is intended. But as I say, the government has arranged matters so that the time to discuss the matter and the time to reason and even to deal with ideas is little or no one else. Is this because the financial bill can't stand the snout, can't stand the discussion? And what is required to do just overdo or just obey the rest? It's a requirement for subversiveness. The urge to settle things in this way involves doing so. I discussed these views at my first talk at the General Meeting. It was evident then that a pandemic would bring challenges to society. I spoke to them about the role of the council and the importance of our mastering ideas. That's what politics is all about. In that way, we serve the interests of the common people. The conversation will develop the ideas as soon as we get better results from the discussion than from doing things this way. It should look ahead to the future, for experience in both the personal and the major context of the nation's lives teaches us that, as a result, sometimes there will be opportunities in changing circumstances. This direct and open conversation about ideas and routes would therefore not have been desirable now, that is necessary. The situation now, when we have been dealing with a pandemic for almost two years, calls for the government to do more than just react to a situation and respond to a problem. The situation calls for more than the government's hope that inflation will not make us feel sorry, that the government hopes that a bargain will succeed, that the government hopes that the health system is under stress. That is why it is in my mind that an intolerable disrespect for the interests of the people of the country has chosen elections in the fall when every situation was to vote for spring and give the budget bill the autumn work it took. It's intolerable to me that a council hasn't been held between June 13 and December 1, just because the government is more comfortable not to have its members working. With all of this, there is an even greater need. Secretary of finance shows up at the council with a bill, which, in fact, hardly depends on being called a bill. This is closer to being a work document or a prime bill, for new Ministers will come here with a considerable change of ideas, that you can understand. We don't know who they are, and it's still gonna narrow the clock. It has been said about the importance of public government work. The Senate does this by discussing matters at the Assembly Hall, but that is not the case today. It's not so now that the people of the country have a bit of an opportunity to study the bill. The whole body is in the same position. And these respectable, professional presidents are in my mind indiscriminate. A respectable president. The slope is huge or about 170 billion, hugely high numbers, but even better than the look of a pandemic when it was first appearing to us. There are positive signs that society will recover sooner than we expected. Of course, we're all happy. What a cause for joy that is! Of course, during the discussion on budgets, the situation must be mentioned before the economic consequences of the pandemic, and the fact is, of course, that since the administration took place, there has been an enormous increase in expenses without increasing the income foundation. Expenditively high, but the income foundation has not been strengthened to meet it. All this time, the government has talked about a responsible government. Rising and inflation are now the realities of public and corporate life. Of course, the common people and especially young people who have taken covert mortgages find things very difficult to deal with. So do the companies. They feel this instability. A late banker has warned about evolution. It has warned of unsuspecting government expenditures that require continuing growth, and recent and frequent growth increases have fallen to the threat of collective agreements. A respectable president. Most of the classes here, if not all, I think I agree that it should grow out of the position, grow out of the problem, and a hard cut because of normal pandemic penances would not have been the correct answer right now. I don't think there's a debate here in this room. But the problem, as I say, turns to the situation that had come up before a pandemic and becomes a long - term problem in case of failure. It is of great importance that the zebra predicts less interest, and it requires economic growth in order to take the lead in working out the problem. If it is not available, the health and welfare issues and the progress issues we want to set will be darker. There's a lot of concern, and I know that I'm not the first senator to mention it, that neither in a diplomat's contract nor in a financial bill are special responses or policy on how to increase economic growth above the Council Bank's predictions, and how to work on the budget indefinitely. The talk here has been very focused on the spending side, but I think it's important to discuss the side of the income too. To that end, of course, you see the political ideologies of the government in your expenses, as well as in priorities. There's a few things I'd like to mention, but we need to see the whole thing. In my mind, it's a sad message for the next generation to see how weak the green steps are. During the entire campaign campaign, there was a sharp appeal that these cases would be taken seriously during this terms. It seems to me that the government budget does not reflect voters' wishes in this regard or that may not reflect their own words in the campaign. But I'm here to allow myself to be optimistic and to hope that this may change. I also feel that there is a lack of vision in the messages the college community receives, as well as the research section. To protect ourselves from long - term economic tragedies, we must become more diverse from today's. Thus we prevent society from becoming all too late when certain jobs go through difficult periods. The law of the law is a core of the government's ideologies at any given time, and here we see the priorities and priorities. I have to admit that I'm not the growth wand, and I don't see how the government really is supporting the university environment. The message to the student community is in good harmony with that. I'm going to say that I've found it incredibly sad to see that it's not gone to finance the availability of psychological services. Mental - health services that do not include psychological services - there is much to it. There seems to be some sort of inflexible law here with the government, and I don't quite understand what's behind it. But it is as if the fact that psychologists, and their services, cannot be accepted as part of mental - health services. Of course, if we want to stand up for equal access regardless of our economy, we need to subsidize the ministry. Of course, this is not particularly important for family members, so in this direction, a cold message to a family of children and young people is a real disappointment, knowing that this is not something that was just forgotten. Here we are simply following the policy of the government, the same course as it lasted for the entire last term. I'm going to mention a few points, although it's always very problematic in itself to take a few points on expenses. That kind of count always leaves something behind. But I'd like to allow me to mention a few things beyond what I've already taken into account. The government has spoken of shortening the list of preaching activities to prisons. It's a matter of speech, and I'm on the side of it. This is a great deal of rights for those who are waiting for abduction, their families, and their community. But I would have liked to see the government approaching the case from the other end too. In every expression of infrastructure, it seems to be always forgotten by this government that the law enforcement, the justice system, is a foundation. A government that takes equality seriously would be able to strengthen the legal system and support it so that the duration of the treatment will not be repeated so long that the courts will respond in such a way, thereby showing how they feel the duration of treatment will be reduced, that they will be mild - tempered even for very serious crimes, e.g. Sexual dysfunction. There's nothing here to tell the government, and I don't see the signs in the budget, either. I hope that a new Minister will consider these matters, but I'm also going to admit that I can't get up by saying I'm optimistic about it. A respectable president. I'd like to call attention to an oncology programme, that it will be introduced, and that it will be proved by time taken. This point is not clear in the budget bill, it seems to me. The priorities in these topics are not identified. Of course, they need to be timed so that they become real priorities and, of course, their financial resources are for work. Cancers will increase by 30% over the next 15 years, and international institutions have for decades encouraged the world's countries to develop these programs to reduce the burden of cancer in communities and to improve the quality of life of people, patients and caregivers. These plans have proved to be effective. They take into account how we prevent cancer from becoming cancer - all to the extent that people become loyal to the best of their quality of life. This is a matter of fundamental importance. It takes just a look at Denmark to see the positive effects of this approach, this work, and this workforce. The effect is very clear. The Icelandic cancer program was adopted right at the beginning of 2019, but it has never had a real life, in effect, it has never been completed. Of course, there is the answer, such as all these fine ideas of the government that are not more than that, that there is no time for it, and there is no budget to be made. I would also like to mention a special situation in the Hospital Cancer Department. This has to be done better, and for that, the cancer community has had the cancer community. Talk. This matter involves many painful nerves, and I think most of us have one or another experience in this disease. Those who have experienced the situation in the department know that she needs to be better. In the context of cancer, I would also like to mention screening. Of course, all of us remember the severe dissociation of the cervix during the last term and the management of the government there, practices that went so far that doctors themselves spoke about the benefits of women's health. I would like to agree with what has happened to the cancer club on the importance of further testing. The cancer community has foretold that it will not open up to cancer of the colon, rectum, and that it can save lives each year. A respectable president. I'd also like to call attention to the income of a state fund on account of a charge of alcohol, which has increased by 3 billion a year. Last year, I took this up here at the council Hall and specifically spoke to them about what ridiculous message it is for the operators, who are calming the organism, who are dealing with a very difficult business, and who have been doing it all the time as a pandemic because of the addiction restrictions, that income should be obtained there. I'm worried about these people, and I'm sorry for them, and I'm gonna have to look around to see that when the tourism run off again, there are restaurants, restaurants, bars to receive the tourists. If not to do anything for these places except add a spell to them, we are obviously putting that situation at risk. It was shown here the other day, in a case of which. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson, the number of alcohol costs, is the same as 16 of the largest collections paid in hunting expenses last year. These pay the great deed, and especially when you consider it in the context of another, simply hurt the people's sense of justice. I would like to remind you that the suggestions for restoration would give you higher money than this one twice as high as this one. And, of course, that amount is worth it and that governments choose to work in this way. In this category, I'm going to say that I have high hopes for a new fishing minister. You see, she showed up in her work at the highest level. The minister of health will not stand firm when she has conviction about matters. I was the highest. A health minister often disagrees about the emphasis on work, but I found, and I think we've all found it here in this hall, to the highest. The minister of health stood by his political convictions, and I hope that she too will do so in this office. We know what it has been in this category up to now, and we hope that it will work in harmony with that emphasis. A respectable president. Finally, I'd like to discuss the words of the highest. The secretary of finance discussed this bill when he submitted it. There, he spoke of winds turning and conditions changing. He rightly mentioned that in these halls we need to be aware of the role of budget in the present - day situation. He spoke of the importance of the use of government funds in a way that puts them in line under the circumstances. I'm the best. A financial minister heartily agrees with him that this may be a difficult task. I cut by the highest. The secretary of finance offered all his assistance and, as he put it, his services to support the committee in his work. Should have gone to the top. The secretary of finance wanted to support the budget and the General for this important work in the community, and he would have made sure that elections had taken place until spring. Head elections put a budget in a very narrow position, and it knows the best. Secretary of the budget of all men. This position is a direct result of the decisions made by the government itself, and it is now all its ambition for the law of the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u136	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorbjörg of Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir, a fine talk for her daughter, which covered many subjects. One subject of many of the subjects she spoke about was that I seized the air, and it was about cancer. I heard from Björn Zoëgi, president of the Carolina Hospital in Sweden, where he put up with the concerns that Covid's cancer would be a big problem, which he already had because people hadn't paid off for two years. This too has puzzled me when we see and read that the same day of surgery is being stopped on a patient ready for heart surgery. The operation is scheduled, not for a day, not for two days, but even a week or two. And all of this is done on the grounds that you need to deal with this because of Covid. I have to ask, and I have to say once more in this sermon: Can everything in Iceland be dead except Covid-19? Is that all we're supposed to do? If so, I'm extremely worried about it. We must begin to ask ourselves, " Must I not begin to deal with all the illness that exists? ' I'm asking why. A senator whether she agrees with me in that the sleeves and the waiting list have to be wrapped up immediately, treated with other diseases, and that Covid-19 is not just focused on.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u137	A respectable president. We've all seen these reports on the unsupervised operations. Hv. A senator mentions this as an additional diagnosis of cancer, i.e. undiagnosed cancers due to the situation, that people hold back from seeing a doctor. I agree with him that this is a major concern, and I have felt that for a little while when we are talking about the pandemic, for example, I have needed a considerable amount of overall food. In the context of co-operative measures, we will examine the overall effect. What does it do for young people to sit at home and not make it to school? We know the exposés about violence against women. This is the global result, all over the world. What does this other aspects of our health - care system do only to those who are dealing with the pandemic? I've thought that it was amazing to have a spirit of solidarity, but it must have been at the point, and I'm actually the opinion that we've come to that end, that we need to discuss it on a broader basis how we're going to deal with the pandemic. During our trip, we requested that the program be set up for a discussion of the disease prevention immediately at the start of the pandemic so that the assembly would be informed. I'm setting a large question mark on the current work, that the Minister of Health is standing on stairs with a memo that lasts for two and three weeks with rot and uncertainty for society all, talking to other Ministers on Facebook, talking about how they don't support each other and this they'll be blessing since the government meetings. It's an unacceptable way to work. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u138	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I couldn't agree more with her on these matters. I know it's already this way about cancer searches, it takes way too long. What is to be taken perhaps two, three weeks will take five, six months, and when the end comes after five, six months, it is too late. It's a serious matter if we're in that position in Iceland. And what's the excuse for the government over and over because of the state of the hospital because of the people? Why Do You Need Nurses? Why are 1,000 nurses not working as nurses? Enlightenment is a simple matter. This is because the circumstances are not acceptable in the hospitals; pressures, coldness. This is a problem we have known of the past four years, and nothing has been done about it. The situation just gets worse a year ago. And what did the government do then, the same government that is now? What has she done for the last two, three years? Ignored physical therapists, speech pathologists, specialists. Are we really going to believe that the government that has come to power is about to do some roses in these matters, in terms of the budgets and the other things that are presented? The budget being submitted today is only ◯glycopyr/paste in the last budget and updating numbers. Done. Of course, this is quite convenient for them. That's why they had their votes in the fall. That's why they were seizing their marital happiness when they were trying to get together in the government, dragging it and dragging it, because it was what they were going to do all the time: bringing up money that was a possession of the last budget, and then they would have nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u139	A respectable president. I'm what? A senator sincerely agreed on his concerns regarding the diagnosis of cancer. As I mentioned in my talk, I think that it is that way in this hall, like in the community, that we all have some experience, that someone presents with these diseases, and I think that there is a general understanding of the general nature of the time in the community. So this is a lot of concern to me. Hv. A senator asked what the excuse of the government is. I don't think the excuse is obvious, because we've been dealing with a pandemic for almost two years, and to some extent he has been a political refuge for this government. Of course, you're not supposed to say that you have smiled at the fact that the interests are so great, but when a government who has worked together for four years speaks of the health and education system in a government contract that one of the big projects is getting a perspective on the design and position and design problems - this is the knowledge and this is the ambition at four years' time, getting an overview of what it takes, nothing about the answers, just getting to know the possibility, perhaps what the situation is. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] But I wish for a new health minister of all the best in his important work, and I know he's seen a lot. I hope we'll see some political bitch here, and stay some other politics, but we've seen in the last term that the government's going to do politics and engage in targeted politics in behalf of the health of the Americans.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u140	President. I'm going to start here a little bit with my social security. There's a little complicated and a little new, one of the things I was talking about in the first speech I'm going to remember a little bit, but then I'd like to add to the one that's in the bill on the real-life social security increase compared to 69.g. There is a new note in the bill that I find very interesting and would like to get a little more explanation about at the highest level. Minister of the jury. It says, by permission of the president: In the bill, a percentage increase is expected to improve social security, i.e. The sensibility and the disability of life, and improvements under social assistance laws, will be 4.6% starting on January 1, 2022. Estimated expenditures are about 10.2 m. K. in the year 2022.◯ Then there will be an additional 800 million spent on a specific 1% additional improvement in the disability and rehabilitation benefits of donors beyond the prerequisite increase in social security benefits in 2022. Okay, cool. Then it gets a little confusing, and that's where the new thing comes in: In 2021, the total percentage increase in social security in budgets was 3.6% in line with the total percentage increase in pay. The anticipated inflation of 2021 is in Iceland's National Organization of Economics about 4.4%. Therefore, the increase in social security is increased by 0.8% so that the rate of increase in the year 2021 will not be less than the increase in prices by the index price. The estimated cost of this increase is about 1.8. K.◯ This will also apply to unemployment improvements. That's an interesting addition. I have often complained that predicting how GDP or pay development will be experienced in the next year's budget, which has been underestimated repeatedly. At last, it seems to be a correction based on GDP, which is just a positive one. I'm just trying to figure out how this one goes together, this current 4.6% increase, 1% an additional increase, and then how the 4.4% increase, or by 2021.8%, is added into it. Is it a simple payment for what was coming up for 2021 that will continue by 2022? Are these 0.8 percent inside, the 1% being added? Where does it compare with the total by 2022? That's a question I'd like to ask the highest. Minister. The government also intends to extend the 2.5% Covid supplement to the unemployed. Covid, of course, is still there, and it runs out at the end of the year. The other thing that I discussed in my first speech is a certain defect in the social insurance law that was pointed out to me late last summer, 30 minutes ago, before the campaign, that you can't take pay from mandatory job-related pensions as a income. So it means that people with pensions from a insurance institution are supposed to be able to count the pay made up of mandatory employment-related pension funds as a job income and the income market because of the sector's revenue to include them for their expenses. I was here to review how this seems to have fallen from the law when changed in 2016, when it was divided into a microenergy pension, where it is particularly involved that the pay of mandatory job-related pensions is not considered as income, but in 4 mg. Section 16. missing a sentence that's a little interesting. I wanted to ask the highest. Minister only on this understanding and this problem, and possibly how it affects the approved budget for the next year, if we know that we will have to assume it and update funds accordingly. Just one thing: I'm gonna spend the rest of my talk on a general budget and on the state of the council because of the lateness of the budget bill. It's clear to me that it's the People's Council that's running the budget. It means that we need to know what resources are being approved when we go to the green, yellow, or red button later in December. I wondered if in such a short period of time, the General could possibly discuss the budget properly. Now we've been through it twice before, 2016 and 2017, with all sorts of promises that there would be routine surveillance and that the council would be informed of various sources that might be somewhat uncertain because of the way the budget was carried out. It was naturally never done. This is the so - called follow-up of a budget that was supposed to be exceptionally active at this time in paying more attention to the Executive Director, who was actually able to fill out and spend on the others and those projects, without the general idea that they had approved it or not. That's the problem: We really don't know what we're going to accept, and the information we're getting about what we're doing with the funds comes from the executive authority itself, which is bringing this financial bill that we're supposed to become very familiar with and accept, confirm or change. But if we can't do it, then the execution of what it wants in there could possibly be hidden from litigators and museums and other such things, doing almost anything. It is not the purpose of the law on public finances to perform financial laws in this way. This is as far away from it as possible. This is a serious fault I think we need to react somehow. When we were dealing with our budget work here in 2016 and 2017, it came out that it had happened before that budgets were not approved for a New Year's convention, it was accepted that certain payments, salary, and so on, these mandatory payments were made, but later on, funds were paid. I really wondered if this isn't something we have to do because the way it was handled for 2017 and 2018 approved for 2016 and 2017 is not a good example. We are in this position at the council to provide information about the person we're supposed to monitor, the executives, we get mainly from the Commission. Therefore, there are various laws on the law that the European Commission should meet with members of the Parliament's questions at a particular time, giving reports within a given period of time. When a committee asks for information from the European Commission, it is required that they be granted within seven days for the General to perform his surveillance work. But we will soon find that questions are answered by a number of mistakes. In fact, there are all outbacks, there are delays, and time and again we find ourselves struggling to find answers to our questions. I hope it's the highest. The minister can answer the questions I raised in this talk, these are important questions that I feel, and I am sending this encouragement out of the walls of this hall and to the legal committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u141	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir For an excellent speech, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson was given. I listened to him when he was talking about the system last time, and now I listened again, and I have to say that there must be some players out there, because they definitely don't understand what they're talking about. And if I hadn't watched enough, I wouldn't have had a clue, and yet I think I know quite a bit about this system, and I think he must agree with me that this is telling us how disciplined this system is. If we take, for example. one word most people don't realize what is: the interaction between pensions and insurance agency, which is renewed year after year, and we know what happened here two, three years ago when the government forgot to insert a decrease in the pension fund and the state lost it. Now, this man's work, this amazingly complex system that has been picking up in recent years, and I somehow got convinced that it was such a system by mistake, that it was a mistake, starting as a mistake, a mistake that had come up and that someone must think of saying, "Hey, no, we're going to stop it, it's all wrong, it's just got to go right up and take on this problem and say, "Here and don't go any further, it doesn't work any more. But this is not done. The system is still being added, still playing with setting 1,000 bucks. Here, but take them right away with their left hand across the whole system, and as a result, I'm gonna ask you if it's okay. A senator will agree with me on that, this being deliberately and deliberately done.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u142	President. Yes, I think it's a little far back in time why it's such a charge, in fact, a debate over whether such an insurance system is an extra or a minimum, i.e. You often hear that the pension fund should be on top, whether the social security of the state should be for all unscrupulous and everything that people earn with a mandatory pension fund is on top of that guarantee, and whether the system has changed at some point to be minimal so that if people didn't achieve a certain amount of material through a mandatory pension fund, the social security system would lose the difference. It seems simply that no one would agree on whether this was supposed to be an addition to the required pensions that people acquired themselves or if it was to be a minimum insurance policy. It's a minimum insurance policy, as if it's a lot of impairment stuff that makes us into these poverty traps back and forth and forth, and you just can't get out of that trap if you think of the system because it's minimal insurance. It's just built into such a system that it will create a poverty trap, so I don't think that without stopping it, this system can never be made simple. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u143	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the counter, who cannot help but agree with him. The system was now corrected for older citizens, but the microchip left behind because they didn't want to swallow professional ability, did not want to swallow certain changes. Then they have been tried to swallow it with promises of changes that, of course, did not go on. I have somehow got the feeling that having the system like this is a government crutch in order to just keep everything intact. I see best in a lawsuit. The secretary of finance when he uses the index price as a crutch to hit the microchip financially so that it is not possible to obtain it in the financial development process, but they only get the insurance policy, as we already saw. A senator was playing on the numbers earlier. [[The president calls.]] They'll never get the right insurance and no pay development.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u144	Madam President. You're right next door. Senator of the 69th C.E. suggests how pensions should be raised by law, to increase according to higher levels, whether it is financial development or pay development. He has historically maintained the price of climate development and, more than that, not pay development, far from then on. When it's put together, it's one of the fifty-five-60% these days. In fact, during the last term, this group that gets a pension in terms of a year's pay paid out of everyone else for this. We're talking about going into this basic insurance system, not so much of a minimum insurance system, which is a presupposed insurance system. It makes this floor that everyone else can build on top. But there's a little ideological conflict with certain groups here that don't believe in progressive taxes, even though they're the most healthy for communities. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is gonna be interesting.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u145	Madam President. I'm coming up here to get it. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear after one important point, on the bill for financial purposes. The Council of Congress discusses the effect on sexual equality and because the senator has been on the committee, I would like to draw attention and ask him about the effect on sexual equality, with permission of the president: The contributions to the Research Fund are believed to be unchanged. Overall, the success rates of men and women have been similar. Then I was looking at the status report on the gender mapping of all case categories on the board, status report 2021. It makes it clear that while the ratio between women and men is generally relatively equal, men are actually receiving higher amounts than women, but when it comes to duck intensity, which everyone knows is largely fortified in the research community and in the college community, the gender difference is striking. There are, if I read it correctly, men 70% of all strategists and women less than 20%. I'm in the senator's office to see if these issues have been discussed. A committee so that he knows about this and about his attitude toward it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u146	President. Yeah, that's exactly what I did for a presentation. The secretary of finance that nearly all of the government's actions were to have been analysed from gender. I remember when I mentioned it on a budgetary committee when the Covid arrangements began, why they weren't sensory intelligence, as the law says. There was a very interesting reaction to that, let's say, all of us, very strangely, naturally, because it was missing. Yeah, there's a lot of stuff in this bill like that. A senator referred to one who only says black to white why it's a problem. One of the things I saw is what I said about tax reductions that were supposed to be more effective for lower income groups, by permission of presidents: It is well known that the tax reductions due to income tax change in 2020 were 52% in the cause of women's interest - which literally tells us that women are less paid than men; there is no complicated effect on the change -2021 will be seen following the pressures of the head of state tax on income 2021. It's black in white where the problem lies. What can be done with him, how he differs from one of his professions, and how there are entire professions that are less paid, which are something that, for example, is something. The equally paid witness does not address it because it is only equally rewarded in the professions, not among the professions, it will be very interesting to see. And no, the answer's no. The committee has not been very much examined.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u147	Madam President. I just want to take this opportunity here and give it a few cheers. A senator and other members of the budget to examine the sex analysis, and it is a very good thing to do. The stage has been a big step, but the reason needs to be deeper. We must dig deeper for the reasons why men are better off in the scientific community than in women. Is this because the articles that women are studying are considered to be somewhat less exciting, less valuable, or less interesting? This is something that really matters because it all affects the position of men and women in this community, and it really does matter not just what the amount of money that goes in that strength but exactly how it is distributed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u148	President. Yes, my family and I are experiencing a lot of this problem. So my wife is in science, and we sense very well how traditional the scientific work is, and especially because I'm here at the council, she is also in the traditional male business, since both of these jobs really assume that someone is working at home. Everyone is motivated by all science's work. The same with the work environment around here. It's just a decision we have to make about working differently. It's one of my priorities on the Presidency Committee that we take care of a little bit of work here, that there's not a meeting until the end of the evening at all, just finish at five o'clock at the latest. It takes special authorization to have a conference until 8:00 if there is an emergency, and that, for example, requires an emergency. always vote for all council meetings prolongs until 8:00. It's supposed to be enough from here to five, tops, tops.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u149	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for his talk and the questions he raised to me. Hv. A senator was wondering about the rise compared to 69 C.E. It consists of 3.8% of the anticipated remuneration in 2022, as the senator entered, and then 0.8% is added for the anticipated inflation per year, i.e. 4.6%, which explains that number. The addition to this is 1% and there is, in fact, an increase that is being made to a microenergy donor and is completely added to the prices in the bill. I hope I have managed to answer the question about how these 0.8% are inserted. If not, I'm convinced that it is. A senator can discuss this with a representative of the Department of Economic Affairs, where there is a problem. A senator has a seat in it. I hope that this explained it, but I just want to emphasize it here, in addition to the fact that we're proclaiming simple information about this system that I think is extremely important. It was possible for a pensioner four or five years ago. And it will be emphasized to keep tight - eyed those who are unable to work and to promote further activity for those who can do some degree of work.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u150	President. Now I don't understand anything because the anticipated inflation rate of 2021 was 4.4%, 4.6% and 0.8%, respectively. Or what? Where, then, is this 1%? It ended in 5.6%. That's why I don't quite understand. At what level do we start? Where's the 0.8? Where's all that coming from? In some places it seems like 5.6%, it's like 1%. Well, then I don't know where that one's gonna come from. Where is the correction from 2021 into the calculation referred to in the budget bill? Is the difference between what was supposed to be inflation 2021 and what became real inflation? I can't figure out where it is. Then, the other question was the highest. There was no entry by a minister, the payment of mandatory employment-related pension funds. It does not seem to be a guarantee for an insurance agency not to take them along as job - related income. They must be taken into account when reviewing the incomes of a pensioner. At the same time, it's going to throw away the vacation market, but now it's all over the holiday line. That is what I discussed in my first talk and considered in the second talk. I think it's a little important that we answer that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u151	V.E.G. President. Right to finish this with the percentages. I hope I can explain that the 4.6% increase is two. It is based on an assessment of the estimated average increase in labour market by 2022, 3.8%. Then, on top of that, 0.8% will be explained more clearly on page. 133 on the bill, and are due to an overall increase in the rate of social security of 3.6% 2021 and the expected inflation of 2021 is 4.4% and the difference in the magnitude of 0.8 is an additional 1%. Now I see I'm out of time and I can't answer it. Senator on the other thing. But we will be happy to do so when we meet with the committee in such a way. A senator will get his answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u152	A respectable president. It's hard to bring so many numbers and puzzle them together in the Senate symposium, I feel sorry for the highest. Minister to do something like that. When I was trying to explain this problem last night about the job-related income due to pension funds, it was just not easy to explain it in a spoken language. It's just that way, it needs a complete corneal demonstration for it. Since I forgot in my speech, I'm just going to introduce to you some adjustment that I also proposed for cover 1. This is a change in cultural, art, sports, and youth, that is, under culture funds. It seems that there's forgotten to fix a few things for the price and the remuneration, so I put it in this way to remind you of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u153	Madam President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Prime Minister for coming to the house as I wished she would do with this discussion. We are here discussing the budget of a new government, and this time, of course, it is a high political discussion because we have received a new government contract. Therefore, you cannot help but watch these two terms together and see if there are any sounds and pictures when the budget bill is checked and if there are sounds and pictures when the budget of a new government is compared to the campaign programs, since, of course, they were many and often not in harmony with what these same classes had been doing during the last term. However, in the case of the Constitution itself, there is a document that is as vague but far less visible than any of the government's fancy election booklets could be seen. The promises that flowed from election categories, of what the groups wanted to do, would be given continued authority, were much more konkord. There was much more. It went on to say: " This is what we're going to do, and that's what we want to have. But when the government's contract is read, it's a lot more hairy. There is a willingness, and the plan is to get people on a committee to see how they can be used. I ask myself, " Where are the big promises from the left green in climate? ' Where's the advance power of the advance party? Where is the extra equation? Where is the growth of the health system? Where is the fall of the booth for which the Independence Party speaks so much? Madam President. The election was scheduled on September 25, and immediately after the election, the directors of the board began talking and immediately said that it was going well, that they had been reassigned for cooperation. It's going great. Thus, two months ago it was clear that these three groups, the left movement, the green supply, the Independence Party, and the forward group, planned to work together despite this preventative preparation. At that time, it seems that the three sitting at the Presidency table were such a pleasant surprise when they arrived at the press conference at the Kjarval Places, they were somehow not ready. That's kind of what we're dealing with today, but they weren't ready for a two - month courtship of old couples. They wanted to introduce us to what they were going to do, how the list of projects was in place, plan of action, and even said that there was a plan to be set up, but those looking for no plan of action. Of course, we had a problem, which was a faulty election in the Northwestern district, but it was already there, soon after a draft board began, that there was no need to wait for a council. It was urgent to receive a budget bill into the council so that the work necessary for years could be done, the necessary work for the government agencies who are now waiting for what should come. That was no reason. There's a memo from the General Law Office. It could be started quite well, but the three governments, whose renovated numbers just weren't ready and are not ready to go to this day, Madam President. With regard to the budget bill, it has been heard from government officials that it does not really have to be discussed because it is based on a financial program of the last government made up of the same political parties. It is worth reviewing that it was also said here in this hall in spring that it did not have to discuss the financial plans that had come into the council because it was actually like the last one that had been approved a few months earlier. She had come late for a pandemic. And let us also remember, Madam President, that there was also no room for an approved budget for the last spring's election in favor of an election, since these were the governments in a race from their own approval. They were not allowed to discuss what they had already decided and approved as a political arrangement in a financial program because they were then in a campaign. Then they were fighting for votes and trying to sell that marriage was the best. Then, at last, it's bringing a budget bill into the council, and they say it's the highest. The secretary of finance also said that this financial bill is not to be determined, that it is only temporary because the current Ministers have had nothing to do with the bill and will lay their mark on it. Ministers who are all outside the secretary of finance and secretary of state, accepting new assignments and passing them to others, are at their new position, and, above all, are largely altered by their new ones. Here we are dealing with some sort of preliminary bill of a new government. In fact, it is surprising that we have the council offered this trade. I asked for the very presence of the highest. Prime Minister here tonight on the decision of the Tribe at the Presidency, Supreme Court. Prime Minister, the highest. Secretary of the budget and the highest. Minister of Woods, whom I think he's going to be, about the complete deliberation of Iceland's board of directors. It's a complete dissension to take place, and I can only hear that the Ministers don't know what it's supposed to be. They do not know the name of their schemes. It's still trying to figure out who's going to take care of what subjects and seminars, and this seems to have surprised all the stewards. According to a report in the Morning newspaper today, there is still much unclear about the proposed changes within the Board of Directors, but the estimated costs due to eutrophication of advice are currently lacking. At the same time, the arrangements for housing and the staff have not been made. It may be that the public, as well as the highest. Ministers, tridents, believe that this is a compromise of the seminaries or a transfer of tasks on the board of the Ministers. But, of course, it's not that, Madam President, just not at all. This is an enormous change in the arrangement of a greater part of the Management Board of Iceland. This is much more extensive than we have seen throughout this century and surely more of the last century as well. There was an increase in plans, but there was an increase in the fields of employment, except for the Ministry of State and the Ministry of State, which seems to have been changed. Yes, and possibly the Ministry of Health. It may also have been allowed to remain unchanged. For the record, projects formerly used in the Ministry of Education and Culture were designed to form a debate between at least three advisers and possibly more. This is not just a transfer of some project standoff on a desk at the highest. A minister of every time, I think I have more informed members of the board estimated that there are some 200 of the Council's 700 employees who are expected to be in an entirely different environment. It may take a whole new year to finish this. How was preparation prepared? The staff heard more and less of it as they observed a press conference in the state of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, held in Kjarval positions almost two weeks ago. It is quite uncertain among employees, and not only that, but the above - mentioned report in the morning that assessments of the levels of recruitment are now being made and that an answer has been received from the Council of Government, which sounds like this, by permission of the president: However, since the decision is made to complete the new order, following its payment of a Senate resolution, there will be two new departments, there is a high possibility that there will be an increase in the standards of the Management Board from today's level. Then comes the raisin at the end of a hot dog: There is no expense assessment, no estimate of the cost of totally jumping up in the Council of Control. There's no expense assessment. Here we are talking about public funds in Iceland, financial resources that are not an inexhaustible resource, are in short supply. When they have to be caught in this country, they have no money, but they can go on such a expedition without having any perspective on the project, the two-month government birth, and no preparation. It seems completely irresponsible to go on such a expedition without having any perspective on what is being done. Now, therefore, it should be arranged that the budget bill on which we are going here will contain a significant rise in the administrative facilities of the various advisers before all of this is applied. We see a 10% rise here and there in the council administration. It says with regard to the Ministry of Presidency that there may be an estimated 45 million and another 20 because of this innuendo in the Board of Directors. It can be checked on the budget bill. But then we have to remember that this isn't the first time that this government, or let us tell the former government of the same administration group, makes a decision to go into such trouble because it also happened in the autumn months of 2018 that the decision was made to divide the welfare department into the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs. Then it was decided to transfer equality to the Ministry of Presidency at the same time from the Department of Social Affairs and the estimated cost to the transfers of these two initiatives -- yet available, there was only one more of the documents between them to make sure that we would not work together in matters that are truly in the same field - that was 70 million. In the treatment of the case here at the council, it was found that moving equality and creating a special office in the Ministry of Presidency would add another 200 million. This was what we were doing in the fall when this one Ministry was being replaced and assigned. Now they're jumping in, well, what are we talking about here, 10 conferences? It's just that they're handing out projects like a smudge between them, and we're talking about that almost one-third of the management board's staff is going to a new desk. This is no minor enterprise, and the government groups offering us this provisional program today allow themselves to provide such a plan for this development or such a decision without any kind of need - analysis, cost assessment, or anything. Who was calling for these big changes? What's this for? How should staff who have been working on academic affairs across school level take care of this when education is being spread throughout the system? The number of staff needs to be increased, and it is good to see in answer to the Morning Press that the government groups acknowledge that they will need to increase the number of staff to do these tasks. But for what? Why? That's what we need to answer. I must say, Madam President, I think this is an overexploitive attitude of three management parties because an overall assessment of this move, economic effect, a synergistic effect, is not available. It's just that nobody's answered why. When you are about to make some of the biggest changes to Iceland's Management Board, which has been going on for decades, you have to do something serious about it. I wonder when they thought of this. And because there was a cat named Júrí and his plans, how he's gonna do it through the backyards of the Westtown, in speech. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín's Fridik's Friðriksson, I think he has a better perspective over the backyards in the old West Side. The government has the work and the services it intends to create with ample cost. There was no discussion of this in the process of elections, on the contrary. In the General's study report, which was published after the collapse of the bank, the importance of reducing the number of the species was specifically shown to reduce the number of recruitment measures to try to maximise the additive effect, to try to do this somehow, so that the staff can be added and that the tasks could be prevented from falling apart and waste in the system. But I'm sorry, I just don't know how they came up with this. There are other things I have to discuss in this budget bill, and here are e.g. The health issues that were to matter to us all. Then the Icelandic government has made the political decision to place considerably less money on the health system than on the e.g. The northern countries, for example, and other control countries. The OECD report, published at the end of 2019 C.E. on Iceland's contribution to health, showed that the health - care system is an enormous amount of money. Then all the groups spoke of an election in order to get it done, but unfortunately, the three governmental groups had no answer as to how to do it. The Icelandic government contributes less of the GDP to the health system than in the North countries, and the funds set in addition to the pandemic. It cannot be compared. The figures cannot be compared when GDP has collapsed, as has happened last year. Therefore, it is wrong for the government to talk about making more money compared to GDP because, of course, it is expensive. Of course, it takes excessive money to run the health system, but there is also an excessive waste of it. In fact, in evidence that if you took a pay cut, the government's budget for the Land Hospital would have been Zoëga recently, e.g., always talking about taking in more and more money, not increasing as much as it seems necessary, not at all. We'd be talking about an increase of 0.7% below the price limit. He pointed out that it would have to be done better because the waste of the system, when it was so expensive, was amazing. It is an excessive waste to extract the activities of people, allowing them to sit around waiting for some action that is necessary or to make people work and function because they have children who are on the waiting list for service. Let's remember that even child-adolescents are waiting lists. Of course, it doesn't make any sense that we're acting this way in this rich society. And unfortunately, if we look at how the government is going to deal with this, there are no answers to the budget bill, but maybe and hopefully it's because this financial bill is just fake. We're just playing some kind of fake game, it's some sort of preliminary piece of shit, and then something else comes along all the way later. Let's hope so, Madam President, but we still have to agree to this preliminary match for a New Year's Eve. Then there might as well be some answers coming from the government because there was no answer to yesterday when the Supreme Court did. The minister of finance was here making quite a presentation. There's no news. And who's going to do this? V.E.G. A health minister who makes this statement should determine this? I didn't hear him answer anything about how he saw a large donation to health care care that is ongoing, increasing the number of nurses who are a great problem, and severely affecting the Land Hospital and the ability to care for patients. We can discuss only our mental - health issues, which, of course, are special activities that we must care for, a desire for mental health, a great deal. Let us put our mental health first, that would be the very last season. We agreed to do some premeditated work, putting the services of psychologists into the health insurance system, for what? Yes, in order to block the well before people fall into it, to prevent future emergency services, to prevent and reduce the stress of public health care. How will the government accomplish this? Yes, it will temporarily put 400 million into the mental - health system, 400 million. K., which is likely to be a fraction of the cost of this violation of the Council of Control. Earlier, it had the highest. A health minister in the contingency campaign with the checkbook dropped 100 million on health insurance to negotiate with psychologists, while the estimated annual cost of keeping psychologists in the health insurance system ranged from 8,70,1700 million. We're talking about the biggest media news story becoming real news. I'd be giving you 100 million to a health minister. K. In this gig. This is almost one twentieth of what is needed, in a pandemic, when 47 individuals took their lives last year apart from those not enrolled. This, Madam President, is not a struggle for mental health. It's a total neglect of the language class. V.E.G. In addition, at a press conference, a current health minister said that she intended to build new mental wards so that those patients who need to rest in mental wards may sometimes be able to get into oxygen because the departments cannot be let out because there is no problem for people who are struggling with mental problems. Many departments are not available for people who are struggling with them to go outdoors. That's not an option. It's not an option to handle things this way. We have to do better than that. According to those who serve there each day, there is a health crisis. I believe them, and I know they're not saying this for fun. They don't have to say that they're funny because they're not in a campaign. They don't have to make tents like that. It's not their job. They're describing a real situation. The head of justice department is describing the real situation when he says that it is completely unacceptable to save people with psychiatric injury in the same ward as others who have all kinds of challenges, that they are being mixed up in these wards whose illness exactly worsens in the presence of each other, but because these are mental challenges, everyone seems to care, at least Iceland's government. I'm sorry, and I have to say that the budget bill, whether it's temporary or not, it was still claimed that this budget of the government's left green, independent group, and forwarding is based on the financial plan of these same categories adopted at the council in spring and therefore would be likely to be comparable. I have to say, this financial bill is a huge disappointment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u154	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the talk, there was a lot in it to find that I completely agree with. I wanted to talk to you about what. A senator of this position, which is that we're getting the budget so late and we're working it kind of blindly in view of the fact that there's been a lot of changes that we don't know who they are. The request has now been sent out and, as it has already been suggested, that most parts do not really want any guests, but what do you think? A senator about offering this bill and saying that there will be significant changes in it, does he not specifically suggest who they will be, but will the managers write reviews of an entirely out - of - date document? I just ask: What kind of disrespect is it to the people who are supposed to study this document and tell us what they think and communicate how it affects them and their media if they are to turn it all around with some adjustments in order to give the government's vision properly? Why not make some sort of announcement of what changes will be? Or it's a skunk. A senator like me might not yet lie entirely in the closet, and it's just going to decide it, like so many other things?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u155	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer that was pretty good because it's exactly right. I began to wonder if it would be inappropriate for the government to make any changes. The Commission's legal hearing, if necessary, has been announced to members of the Committee that there may be a meeting at 9:00 a.m. The other is just rude, telling people to get started on a job, and then something else comes from the government. Then I have to say, of course, it's also rude to do the information about what is almost no time to send in the envelopes, just for a few days to react to hundreds of pages - and we're not talking about any bit, we're talking about a substantial amount of dollars a year in a government business - dealing with a suit that ministers allow themselves to say is fake, just temporary, and we're going to make a big change. In fact, every client should insist that he does not have to make a statement until the final suggestions have come from the government because it has already been declared unconcerned and how they feel about bringing this into the council. If this isn't done, and it's going to be a huge change, I would now object to having to go to such a job at this point. However, it should also be noted that the request for affidavit should be made. A financial committee, of course, who was sent long before and completely to an apparently unsolved position, shows that there is not necessarily any possibility that the presence of a client will be requested in the processing of the bill because there is so little time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u156	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer, of course, is buried here, no matter how short the time is. It's something we've been talking about today, but I think it's good to reiterate it here if Prime Minister is in the hall, since it's her decision that elections would become autumn instead of spring. As a result, we have this tremendously short period of time. And in spite of the warnings from the government that it would take too short to win the budget, despite our comments that this was not a democratic means of approaching elections, we are stuck trying to speed up the budget as much as possible and do not allow them to get their natural democratic discussion here at the council, as if the council were going to do the budget but rather make it all happen. Isn't that the government's self-inflicted shit? Don't you think she needs to let this go next time?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u157	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for later answers. Yes, yes, I think we can totally agree that the government needs to do better next time. But the question is, Does she learn from her mistakes? I'm not sure because we've seen this work before. We've also seen a budget bill coming into the council and not taking a single change. I remember how surprised I was when I first saw it in here. A number of narratives came along and pointed out a fault in a budget bill, which was being discussed at the moment. A budget like that would take place real work, and then nothing happened, no change, not really change at a tub. It's so special that in the conversation, a man noticed yesterday, they seem to think that if the total number is somehow similar, it's just okay.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u158	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator's review from being divided into the Department of Social Affairs and Health for no reason other than that two Ministers could not work together under the same roof. That cost 70 million because people who were in the same government did not want to share the ministry directors, editors, the cafeteria. 70 million. There's a lot of 70 million streets on the budget bill. There is an enormous amount of incomprehensible requirements, each one of which is just a drop in the ocean compared with the cost of this administrative help program, e.g. The folly of cutting down contributions to independent theaters by 30%, down to 94 million. I wonder if the cutback would be up to guess the salary of two assistant ministers who were being added to a new Ministry that had to make such percentages of power in the government? Not for any financial reason, but for political prosecuting reasons. The '78 parties are wiped out of the budget bill, as happens every year, so they need to go to the budget board and the Ministry. That dirty one, 24 million. K. - That's the Minister's annual salary. It's no problem finding the money for the Minister who had to get a new seat. [[The president calls.]] But that's the disrespect for the staff at the Board of Directors I'm stuck in, too, that a third of Iceland's staff recruits are completely uncertain. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u159	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yes, 70 million are in many parts of the budget bill. It's, for example. 78.7 million. K. reduction of contributions to cultural funds. Musicers get such a fallout. This is the government that is going to go to great lengths to promote cultural support. Let's take a closer look: 454 million. K. reduction to cultural funds entirely. There's a lot of 70 million there. If we wondered if it took 70 million people to look up recruitments without others, so to speak, just because of that, as a whale. A senator said that two ministers could not share a coffee mug, then you can imagine the cost ahead of creating this which is being created, where there is no vision and no assessment has been made on this coming project. The number of keys has been increased. People are starting to be reassigned, which is to be built up in one Ministry. That's a lot of money, huh? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u160	Madam President. Hv. A senator recalled that the reorganization of the Council of the Council of the Council of 20091⁄2013 was not just of that, but one of the lessons that the Senate and the government withdrew from the collapse and study report on the fall of banks. It matters which groups of subjects are together and not together. Therefore, I would like to review, because now the use of energy is in the same place as that of those using the energy, with permission: To me, the research on resources and advice on how to use them is a fundamental factor in the nation's well-being. That's what they wrote. Environment Minister, the current highest. A marine and agricultural minister, who had just learned from the collapse that the overall interests of the whole must be at the wind, and special interests must not be controlled. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What would have changed about this reorganization, which is now in place regarding the evaluation of the overall interests of the group? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u161	I want less of it. The senator should respect the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u162	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for later answers. - There's something wrong with the clock, Madam President, she always jumps up and down. In the General Report on the collapse taken under the leadership of Páll the Hreinsson of Purge and others, the cost of the Ministry was not being viewed. Indeed, efficiency was being watched within the council, and it was said that there should be fewer resources because many people are too small and too weak to cope with their assignments. Thus, it would be possible, not to have others, but just to have fewer ones. As far as I know, they dropped to eight. This was an advantage, for many of them are doing the same work. We can take aging cases as an example, this is a project, and the affairs of the disabled and the sick.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u163	Mr. President. Where it is. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir requested that I be here for the discussion. I would like a chance to give an answer, especially as a matter of course. A senator pointed to me for changes in the Board of Directors. So I was fortunate now to be a minister of the 2009 issues of the government,2013, when the law of the Council was just changing and changing. During that time, there was no option on increasing the number of employees in the budget. That situation just did not happen then. A senator knows. Hence, the decision was made to reduce the amount of resources needed to gain an increase in stroke power in the administrations without increasing population. It was then a great deal of talk and actually suggested that the Council of Government laws be changed so that they would be moved more toward what is commonly practiced in the North countries where every government really decides what kind of work is being done on the political grounds it is formed from. Of course, we had gotten used to the arrangement that had been here since 1969 when the names of counselees were added only to the laws of the government of the longest degree. The proposed proposal was now changed in the council because of the great opposition of the independence party and the forwarding party, requiring that the General must accept changes in the schemer, not merely prime minister, such as the then High Priest. The prime minister suggested, in order to bring the system of government closer to other parts of the North. However, I was deeply in favor of these ideas, and I concluded the matter in a separate direction, so that a prime minister might make a decision for the Council of Congress and that it would be granted to make changes so that the Council could be better adapted to political goals. [[The president calls.]] You're quite right, here's a big change, but I believe it's a very loyal board of directors to be more mobile than it's been, and that's exactly what changes are made in society.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u164	Madam President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Opportunity. I understand that she can't cross a wide range of fields in her reply when time is so tough, but I have to say, at least I find it rather reckless, I repeat it. When this is the kind of operation to change a huge house, if we take such a metaphor of the government, with many living quarters, there has to be a plan. There needs to be some starting point. You need to know what you want, who's going to live in each room and what to use it for, and whether it pays to move the kitchen into a bath or not. And to do this, you have to look at the whole house. It doesn't mean to pretend you can just take the house, shake it like a hysteria and spread it around the floor, and just build it over the floor, because there's something in there that calls for an overall vision, that there's some idea of how this is going to work, that the pipes are connected and, above all, that you can afford the amazing changes you're going to do in the house like the government of Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u165	Mr. President. Actually, I didn't find the question in my previous answer because the time was short and what I said here last year may have led me to the question I would like to answer. A senator who is: A senator and her party to legalize the Council of Control? Got it. It is normal for a senator to assume that there is an increased mobility in the Council of Control, that the administration at any given time can order actions as political emphasis demands or wishes. A senator would rather look to the tradition of the highest order. The Prime Minister Bjarni Benediktsson arrived here in 1969 by legally establishing a legal office and receiving the approval of the Generals for each change? It actually became a compromise at the time, although there was no need for a change in the law, it did become a controversy. I just want to see what I'm thinking. A senator, whether she is more involved in this Norwegian system that I had only a few words about before or at any time. A senator looks to the Icelandic language in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u166	Madam President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for later answer. Yes, it is my opinion and ours in the United States that it can certainly be changed, that the Council can be alive and should always work to maximise its performance and to maximise its success. But there can be now. You cannot allow yourself, with such a booth as the Board of Directors, to run off without preparation. No one can afford to do that. Based on the answers obtained from the Board of Directors today to the Morning Press, this appears to be the case, with ministers who have been giving an answer to this, the directors of the three Governing Body, no answers on preparation, forethought, perspective, extracurricularity, or plan of this great project. There's no planning, Madam President and the highest. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u167	Madam President. I'm going to say something about the budget. I've been listening a lot to this 1st. magazines on them and have shown much interesting evidence. But it is quite possible to say that a red thread through this is the natural situation in which we are in; discussing here; it is December; and we have just received the package in our arms; the council has just arrived after the election was made in the fall. I must say just as it is that I agree with the words that many have fallen upon this arrangement, that this is very unfortunate. It is most unfortunate that the council will have so little time to tackle this important and large issue that, of course, contains everything that is involved in the operation of the State and that is deeply affecting the lives of all of us. Of course, effort is needed, and it needs to be given the time and respect that are appropriate, of course. After elections in the fall, there have been unusual conditions here. This was followed by a series of events that we know in the northwestern district, which lasted over eight weeks or so. Meanwhile, the government was here, and people took a good time at it. Of course, it would have been possible to have the council meet earlier to consider this work; of course, the council was functional despite the uncertainty of some members of the council. But people have been talking about how unfortunate it is to vote in the fall from what happens after the election. But I'd also like to say, because it all hangs out, of course, that it's not a good idea to choose in the fall because then we're in the position that the council has not been sitting for several months since spring. And when we take such a series of events, and so did we, as it happened four years ago, when it took time to form a government and something else, there is no hold from the council to the Commission for a long time. Of course, it is very unfortunate, and it is very unfortunate for the fall election that the council is not active, but ministers and governments, on the other hand, are sharing their financial resources with them. Of course, the situation is very great. On top of this, I'd like to mention, too, and it's my personal opinion that the discussion of society and any kind of community we want to build was, of course, the most important for elections. There are a lot of people who listen more closely to what politicians say before elections than perhaps during the middle of the term. And when this comes in just after summer, I'm worried about it because we know that an Icelandic community is in a kind of hibernation in the summer, that the time people have had, is a little tight. So both after elections and also only for the democratic debate before elections and for the support of the council, I find it completely undefeated to choose in the fall. This is where they landed, for example. in trouble with sending out envelopes without the committee coming together, and I have subtle suspicion that it may have been some kind of product of it. But only to the economic situation: That's what we've been talking about, and of course, we all hope that there's everything here to take over and that society, the economy, is living again. That the home and the companies will be better, and that there will be some change in the quality and well-being ahead, and we can outgrow this Covid problem, this epidemic, and the economic impact it has caused. Still, I feel that there is no reason for me to hold back from believing that there is no such thing. It really has a variety of colours. I'll wake up, for example. Attention to the fact that we have collective contracts ahead of us, and we have seen that men are a little scratching in the head, the partner of the workforce, over how to work, for example. I'm gonna take care of it with my economic growth. We are here with a high inflation, and we see that interest has increased rapidly, and we are also, as we know Icelandic realities and history, completely with it, and no one has to go to the grave to see that interest is going to rise here quietly for the next year. And exactly because it matters at the moment and we're coming out of this Covid situation with this huge angle in the state fund, of course, it's a bit Copian all of it. Because you've been seeing interviews today, I'm going to mention to you for an interview with Magnús Gottfreðsson, a professor of infectious diseases, that appeared in the media today. He mentioned it, for example, and it's perfectly obvious, he reads it from the reaction of the states to this new viral variant, that we will look forward to a more serious position for all of this. This can put a small brake on this reversal that seems to be a basis for all the financial work and what lies ahead for us. So I don't think that the economic improvement that humans are talking about, and really is a prerequisite for the way the budget is built up and the government's plan for the next few years - I feel at least that... that we need to keep this warning up now that we're going into the budget because it's all hanging out. I must also mention that as we see interest rates rising, I felt that it was a small loss for government soldiers. We see even certain parties; banks, diagnostics of the banks predict that in the years to come, you can go up to 4.25%. Of course, the banks and the pension fund are following the direction and growth of the mortgages, and there are many who have unscrupulous loans, whether with solid interest, variable interest. I wondered, " Is it possible for humans to underestimate some of the effects this will have in the next two or three years? ' This is an amazing number of people who have been trying to balance loans from insurance to infidelity. We celebrate, or at least Many, that so many people have gone over to cheating loans, mean that the fruit of the steering wheel is falling better. But it also means that when steering interest bites well, it is just that it is being cut down in the possibility of homes to sustain itself, because these are very inhuman numbers that come with these interest increases for the national housing loans. In many cases, this is the largest pay force available to the households. So I don't think it's easy to keep this up now that we're keeping up with the budget. I'd like to mention in this context what happened. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir earlier today, that we are also in a position far more serious than the government wants to admit, of course, that we have a government fund that was gathering debts before the epidemic struck. So I testify here only to Daníel the son of Svavarsson, director of the economics of the Bank of the Lands, and he says, The economy is at full power, and it is quite bright ahead. Travelers are awake from hibernation, prospects are very high in hairy matter, and various external circumstances are practical for us. Lack of employment rapidly declines, and we assume that by 2024 unemployment will be lower than that in the pre - epidemic period. Still, we face various challenges. One of the biggest is to extend the leaning of a treasure that has taken on heavy loads. At that time, strong economic recovery and persistent inflation will move about a significant increase in driving growth before circumstances arise to reduce them again. Here I refer to this number, and shall finish here with my quote from Daníel the son of Svavarsson. It says that the growth may go up to 4.25% before they lose weight again. I further remind us that Icelandic realities do not necessarily help us to reduce growth as a result of the expansion process of the Federal Bank. We know that well. We're in the position that we have to pay off debt and I'm going to allow myself to celebrate what is stated in the government's plans to sell the government's property at Iceland Bank. Actually, I'd like to go further and clear up the government's ownership of financial operations over my head, but it's at least... It's a good thing to enter the terms of the season. I also take it with me in the discussion that it is important that the money that the state will redeem to himself by means of that selling property go directly into having a positive influence on the debt of the state's funds. There will not necessarily be some new project, just because it releases some money, of course, because we know that we have to pay off these debts and the sooner the better, of course. I welcome it, and I would also support it, as I say, that even those things would go further. I understand, however, that when we're talking about the banks and their sales and how the financial market is going to function in Iceland, it's a natural thing to do. Not long ago, there was a financial collapse in which all the banks collapsed. But I have come to appreciate during the discussion that men have now done quite a lot of work to see that such a series of events can recur, with all sorts of law change and order changes, with the demands of the bank's own money, and that their cross - possession relationship cannot be shaped in the same way that occurred in the years before collapse. So while I understand the warnings and would very much like to talk about the sale at the council, I don't think there's anything to be afraid of. Generally speaking, I'm there in my life that I don't think the state should be in this business. But I would also like to mention, because the government has made quite a difference when it was introducing the Treaty, as well as what we have heard to ministers and council members in discussions about the issues both in the council and in the media and elsewhere, that much has been said about technology development and the fourth industrial revolution, and that it should be some of the principal goal of the Board of Directorates to take advantage of opportunities there. I'm happy, of course. There are great opportunities in the human resources we have, a lot of technical knowledge, a lot of scientific knowledge, all of the dierencies that come with us in a small community that doesn't necessarily show up in larger communities. Of course, the requirement for such success is that we have a somewhat efficient market economy that is not too controlled, although the order is in order without being overly burdensome. Besides, there should not be too much relief. I'm going to let myself talk about something that I only mentioned in the campaign because it was so interesting to me. At a meeting I attended at the University of Reykjavík, there was just a little talk about the fourth industrial revolution and the possibility of young people. There I looked over the hall and received questions from young people. You could sense that there was a man in an institution where there were young people who were about to learn well, excellently sophisticated people, glaring in the eyes, smiling at the future, and thinking that the future was a smile. At that time, people were so prominent that they saw an opportunity in every corner. This is probably what the government is referring to when it speaks of inducing the opportunity of the fourth industrial revolution, all technological development, to delay that chariot. I had only a short time before, earlier in the morning, been in the United States, which is a means of managing for young people 16◯25 years, which is just in the position that the fourth industrial revolution is a threat. They're people who haven't got up in Icelandic education. These are people who have not been given the same opportunities and who may not have been able to take advantage of their opportunities as well as those smiling young ones I spoke to at the University of Reykjavík. These people see the fourth industrial revolution as a threat. These people think about all the expertise that is taking place, and they don't see an opportunity in it. I want to direct the words to the government and to all of us when we are trying to capture the opportunities that are involved in these rapid technological changes, trying to activate the human race and try to create our schools so that they can make such valuables through our people, for them themselves and for society, not forgetting the people who will be left behind when we are discussing these things. It's incredibly easy to forget about your tools, that you can't see that not everyone can take advantage of such opportunities. I mention it here because I immediately began to think about it as soon as I saw this focus package for the government, including changes the Council to try to handle this project. There is much to bear in mind, and we cannot afford to allow everyone to take that opportunity, and we need to take special care of that group. I would also like to mention that all of this prosperity that we pursue, all the prosperity that we have, is of no value if we do not use its profit, the value of it, in order to take good care of those who are in a nest. I've also been in this discussion about the budget that people have been wondering about innovation. We've come up here anyway. Senators and for the sake of filming wonder if Iceland is just a new country. I miss a bit of a better perspective, not only in the Treaty, but also in the vision and ideologies of the Government Party and the policy they are trying to shape now for a long time, where men are going to bear it. Where do we see the opportunity? These words can be thrown into the mind: innovation, sceptre company, always possible. I would like to see a much more progressive view of the fact that we should place a special emphasis on two issues in that context. It would be one thing to promote all the innovations involved in environmental, climate, and all of these, simply because everything in the world is about that kind of thing today. There are both opportunities and products of which are so helpful. It is simply so good to deal with such a situation. I may mention, because there has not been much discussion about the European Union in this room for a while, I feel that, for example, there. are very ambitious schemes and ambitious support systems and resources for such projects that I think the Icelandic people may be able to get a little better. The same is true of innovation in all kinds of health and health - related sciences. There are many opportunities, both of us, since we have quite a lot of well - educated people in this regard. We have an amazing grasp of ideas. We have an enterprise that has developed in the health - care centres who have then made a deal, e.g. At the hospital, which I find completely lonely to end up saving money for the hospital. There are more than one example of this. That's where I feel that we should be more specific than the government says, or at least. is not yet showing much of the cards, betting on these two sectors, from the fact that there are potentials out of the nation's educational institutions, as well as from the fact that the products of these products are so high. But because I mentioned the European Union, maybe I'd like to, too, because we have groups that put it in a government contract that the interests of Iceland are best protected outside the relationship, to mention it here, from the fact that I started, to my friends in the left movement, to that when we talk about the European Union, we are not just wondering what we get out of such cooperation, whether we make something on it or not. And because I know Fridays talk anyway. Senators VG much of human rights, equality, democracy, and so forth, surely Icelanders could have a positive influence in such a state. So we have much to communicate in certain areas where we are primarily nations. I'm just going to mention this in an accident when I started talking about the European Union. I mentioned that money was not being added to the U.S.A. and to the hospital of Vogs. It's a group of paintings I know well of, and it's very difficult to see. I encourage them to do so. Senators to revise this now on the budget, overcrowded because there we are, so I'll explain it a little bit better, with 700 people on the waiting list. There are 700 people waiting to get under the doctor and specialists. And it's not just that these 700 people are waiting, behind these 700 people are parents, are mates, are siblings, are children. What people often fail to discern about this disease is the consequences of his family life and of his friendhood. And when we're with 700 people waiting for help, we can imagine all the outside numbers that will benefit if the sick person is helped. And I'd also like to mention in the context of which men often find it hard to understand that being on a waiting list with this disease is something quite different than being on a waiting list with many other things, and I'm not trying to minimize it. The reason for this is simple. I'm going to allow myself to use words that may not be much used here: often it's so with people who have alcoholism or drug addiction that they have some moment in their lives where we can talk about some sort of wish of treatment. Then someone will open a window where the person will surrender and may be ready for treatment at that moment. This choice of treatment does not take into account how any prepared waiting classes that governments at any time are responsible for or how they work out. So if a person does not come to help, to hope, and to the sun, hopefully, because he is on a waiting list even for a month, he may disappear. Sadly, there are a number of cases where a waiting list for help died of this disease while waiting. I would like members of Congress to keep this in mind when we hold onto the budget, both the importance of this, because there are so radically involved in the sequence of events, and also because it saves a huge amount of money to have as many as possible cured from this disease, and there are so many around the sick that benefit. But it's been a theme, you think, when this government is renewing its vows and starting its second term that they have had a bad time working on the health - care lists. We've been living through the season and during the last term, members of the party, often talking about it, and I do it here for another time, that it's quite possible, and there's nothing to be afraid of, looking to the private people who are able to perform a certain service to shorten a waiting list and come to help others. This can be done by greatly promoting health insurance and making it possible for that agency to define both the services being served and supervised and, above all, so that it is not some food hole for an enterprise in the city and that those who take up such service for the State and are paid to be thus benefited and that they know what the work is being offered, that it is not some secret fault. As has been said at times, there cannot be some self - activity, and we actually know some examples from neighboring countries. Then I'd like to mention one thing, because we're talking about putting 2.6 billion people right here to react to Covid, and this is a budget to go to the hospital. Iceland and I have responded well in this epidemic, and there is still much to it. There is nothing because of some politicians it is, just because the nation is united, channels are short, and it is easy for us, despite the fact that we can argue as a nation on all creations, at the same time stick together when it matters. No government can claim that, any more than any government opposition. It is the people of the country who have that privilege. But now it's time to add funding to the hospital for this reason, and you might want to see a little more of that entry. Still, there is a question that always hangs over you. They've been talking about this for a while, it's always started the same play over and over and over, and it's done the whole epidemic, especially now that the nation's been vaccinated, but the government hasn't been combined in action, and we don't know and we don't really get a good answer from the government on whether or not they trusted to build the Land Hospital, key divisions up there in such a way that we can be vaccinated in a country without limitations and had. I'm gonna use this opportunity here and I'm gonna say something disappointing about what the government's been having a bad time with these matters. I've been telling you, there's only one football team and the senior class, so many people, to go to the hospital with Covid, and we have to start taking away human rights. Our human rights seems to be a person at the government table to have some sort of exchange between Ministers, for after the government meeting where their limitations are being determined by the Supreme Court. Health Ministers, now the advanced Svandís Svavarsdóttir, sent out to the field to speak for it while ministers of the Independence Party run out to the newsmen of the brownweights and grit themselves over not having achieved something beyond the government table and therefore unable to support the government's decisions. As a result, society receives a completely double message about what is really going on. Of course, it always ends, so in this play there is a villain, named Þórólfur Guðnason, and then he always sits with the cup of the cup to be the evil man with a certain group. He is not doing anything, however, except playing the dogs he has been given in the game because he has not yet been in the hospital or is allowing the hospital to receive more numbers when it comes to this virus. I can see that there is a lot more to my time in this talk, so I would like to ask for a respectful president to put me back on the rosary, from what I understand, that I can then speak a little more after, because I would like to mention also the funds to take on film policy. They're talking about an Icelandic flow system where I just want to come in, not that I really disagree with the target, but I would like to have at least one. A few words about a way the government seems to be going in that regard. Besides, there are other things I would like to come into them in that talk, such as to form the Board of Directors and other things. I hope to have an opportunity here later tonight to make more of this financial discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u168	A respectable president. It was a good and fun speech. I just wanted to talk for a second. A senator mentioned something related to the U.S.A. It is now with many members that they are fighting to find funds to fulfill a role that should even be on the shoulders of the State. There's an organization that has, for example, an organization. make the good decision to stop using machines as a means to raise money. Despite their taking such a responsible decision, the State will not respond to them with increased financial support. I think it's something I've come to see a lot of free organisations. They're starting to have a real battle, not just a sledgehammer. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, however, pointed out that they need to come and beg for money, pray continually to get back into the budget, and that they too need to be very busy getting money to the public. It was very interesting to me when we left some of them. Senators visiting them at the Association of '78, it was found that when all the funds were put together made by the state and rural communities, this amount was lower than what they receive directly from individuals. I'd like to hear from what happened. A senator who is the best way we can have to ensure funding for an organization such as the U.S.A., which is doing an important work for the people and the interests of the State.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u169	A respectable president. I thank you so much for having a chance to take this action, and maybe we'll discuss it a little bit more. Of course, with both state and rural society, it is such a challenge to finance. There are many members of the organization who do very good work in various fields, and I realize that doing things for everyone can be complicated. But what I'm trying to say here is that U.S.A. is an example of something beautiful. There is a need for people in the community to fight disease. It's not easy to get government officials to understand the disease, and then individuals take up an organization, and that's how the ball starts. In many respects, it is self - discipline. I may be trying to simplify the story a little, but in the face, it's like this. Then it builds up in the way we know each other. Now it has become so that it is recognized as a disease. The World Health Organization defines this not just as a disease but as one of the most serious diseases in modern society, and we have this association that runs a hospital. People are lying in that hospital. People then have to go for a month after treatment. It's a running hiker. It's a psych service for children. They're helping people with opiate addiction. We have a definition of the phenomenon that we call a hospital, and such a phenomenon does not have to rely on money gifts from the common people. I understand that members of the organization may want to rely on self - resources, both of which may be good for the task of activating people and others, and perhaps they give them a measure of independence. But when it comes to such an important unity as this hospital, there is far too much need for the State to produce financial contributions that give us reasons to be proud. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u170	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for good answers and for speaking about matters that he knows very well, that is good. I've been talking about innovation earlier today, and I was glad to hear it. A senator spoke of the very opportunities in the innovation. But, hey. A member of the Parliament also became a subject of the fourth industrial revolution, and I wholeheartedly agree. A senator's concern is that it presents a number of threats as well as opportunities. I have felt that there was a lack of understanding and perspective among politicians on the threat and opportunity. I'd love to hear from what. A senator in what way does he think he is the most likely one to make sure that people who are left out will not be badly affected during this revolution.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u171	A respectable president. Thank you so much for the opportunity to respond. One minute is not a long time, but there would be some kind of start in my opinion, and maybe I'm drawing up a tiny simple picture, but you understand at least... The point, that our school system, from the bottom to the bottom of the scale, would be more flexible and tolerant to the fact that people have all kinds of needs and that their abilities and abilities are possible in very limited areas that are meant to be cultivated within the school system rather than being put into some kind of creation, perhaps requiring much more extensive and broader knowledge than is needed. I'm not trying to minimize that kind of thing. I'm just saying that by rethinking things in the education system some fences could be installed and prevent at least some who have little chance in the fourth industrial revolution we're going to be talking about. more chance of developing their skills in specific areas, although they may not be able to find themselves inside the school system as they are designed today.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u172	A respectable president. We could, as it were, stand here, I think, for a month and discuss this financial bill that has been delivered to us. For some reason, however, the responses of the executives to the fact that these are not the right numbers, they're going to look better, even if things aren't uptight, and you can't help but wonder if it's just being with us, if it's just trying to keep us down because it's a very important discussion. It is very important that we get the actual government plan to discuss. What's interesting, for example. To see in this financial bill are all sorts of standards here and there for various councils and institutions, standards of living that appear to be not implemented. It is as if recruitment and organisations and all of them, the excuse, are made to figure out how they spend a little less money. We naturally know that this is not how things work in the real world. Most institutions complain of lack of money. I don't know that there are many institutions that want less money or that have much leftovers. But the question I wanted to ask is, does the senator really think that this bill we're discussing here?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u173	A respectable president. Thank you for the opportunity to respond to this. I'm not going to pretend to be a member of Congress or I've been involved in a lot of financial work so far. But I've only watched this through the years through my work and with interest in what's going on here at the General Assembly and I have to say that, given the lead to the position we're in now, how late we're going to be on the budget and how people have talked about how much it takes to turn into their own financial work at the council, there's a lot of this all that gives you reason to doubt that there's a great deal to take on a lot of what's going on there. I pondered over it a little, because the classes that now make up the government were very long to agree on it - or to get together; they were not long to give it out that they wanted to try to continue the more part into a new terms period. This superintendent of the Board of Directors, this random entry of a task between recruitment practices, I'm not gonna use the word resolution, but we'll see that this is causing a certain kaosi in the Board of Directors and other things. I think this is a bit of a distraction from a mackerel, if I may, in all the work we're in right now. It will be a little interesting to see how the work comes forward at the council by means of budgets, for it has, of course, been spoken in such a way and proclaimed that there will be a huge change made on the part of the executives at what is in the bill, as we see it at this moment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u174	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Sounds to me like we're having a little bit of the same trouble in this case, and I'm worried that this is the trouble we're going to get in case we're looking at. This may be the biggest example of the lack of respect I think the whole council feels right now in the first few years. Of course, it's very unfortunate, and I hope that this is a misunderstanding and a wrong feeling and that the more part of this council will recall that he is in charge of only the right half of the nation and that it's a democracy of the North countries that everyone is allowed to participate, not just the more part.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u175	A respectable president. Yeah, maybe I'd like to respond to this in general. I'm a little bit of the conclusion that all these events we've witnessed over the past few weeks, what happens here to form during the dawns when considering that the committee and committees and other activities and other things, unfortunately, give you a pretty bad feeling that strong more things are possible to get a bit out of the democratic rights of the smaller part that's not good, just not good. Again and again, I remind you that the council has a very important role. Government opposition is no less important than being in control. I was hoping, though, for the pre-election committee's work, that this would be the way we saw it there. There I felt that the groups were working pretty well together, despite the fact that there was a little difference in the blueest, so let's see what's out there.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u176	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech, a lot of interesting things. When he was discussing the University of Reykjavík and the New World Translation, I was especially interested. It was mentioned earlier today, virgin boy. paritaprevir The Rafn son of Ólafsson had much to do with innovation. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on one thing: Does he find any vision of innovation and participation in the fourth industrial revolution of the budget bill? I haven't found her. I haven't seen her. The budget bill has an increased budget of 1.5 billion for innovation. They are less than 30 billion, that is, the wealth that goes into the various funds and so on. Well, it's money, but it's going to take a lot more changes. The industrial revolution arrived in Iceland in 1904 with the first engine boat to Isenafjörður. The first aircraft of the fourth industrial revolution or information revolution has not yet arrived. What I feel is completely missing, I'll just take it for example, is a state-of-the-art wake-up call. The University of Reykjavík has five students who study at ◯data science, a science of information, which is the basic subject of the Enlightenment Revolution. They're looking for people from these things in a field in every company in the world. We're making five a year, that's five students. Iceland is in great danger of losing again from the nations, and we are already doing it. I can give examples of small countries in Estonia, 1.3 million, they have totally digital administrations, and they are in the lead, and they are teaching in basic schools logic, programming, and artificial intelligence. [[The president calls.]] We're not close in this regard. But I reiterate the question: Is there a vision in the budget bill of the information revolution?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u177	A respectable president. Thank you so much for the question, and I'll try to take it from you. I'm just gonna take it by reading here a little bit from the Constitution, because you're asking about a policy: ▪ During the season, structure will be emphasized as we will support the wide variety and potent foundations of the economy and put an increase in official investment in green projects and research, innovation and creative branches. Government funds will continue to reduce financial assets and to use the benefits of building infrastructure. That, after the second sentence, this first thing is something that I think all classes can write on, no matter how they would agree to form a government. That's how I see a little of this government contract. He's been saying a lot of things in general. It's a lot of fables we've seen in many politics, celebrations, and other things over the years, and you would have just thought that we should have seen that in the first legal law of this government, we should have seen it. There would be some application of these widely spoken promises, which all of us know about. But I have not found that there is a very clear view, either in this matter or in many other matters. It's kind of random how it's coming in. We were discussing earlier that there has been a rumor that the matter has been put in like this, and then it has somehow changed to the council. Of course, it tells us quite a story that there's no clear view of this, at least Not a firm vision, seeing in the government covenant, nor in the financial bill itself. However, we in our position of government may be able to direct them to the rights in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u178	President wants less of it. Councilmen are required to use the proper form of complaint. When we use the words you and you, and so on, we're not going to get involved in personal attacks and things like that, it's like that, it's like, "I'm sorry, I don't know the logic name of it in Icelandic. The President allows himself to do what he allows himself to do here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u179	A respectable president. Hv. A senator referred to the government contract, which is a remarkable document, and I talked about it yesterday in my virgin address, which I would like to call after just four answers. The Treaty contains a chapter entitled "We Will Use Technology Changes to Improve Quality of Life. " It says the following, with President's permission: ◯Island is a modern-born country with a powerful technical infrastructure --but is Iceland a special innovation country? No, we're not. We live in a resource economy, we don't live in a knowledge economy. If we're going to go from resource economy to innovation, it's going to cost a huge amount of money and system changes in every area. It's not just about money. It is absolutely true that the treaty is widely spoken and beautiful, but it does not reflect the treaty, unfortunately. That's basic. They have to invest in the future, invest in the fourth industrial revolution. [[The president calls.]] That industrial revolution will surround every aspect of society, and it has already begun, we know it for ourselves when we use our cell phone.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u180	A respectable president. I'd like to apologize if I haven't used the right answers and let me refer to my lack of experience, and I'll try to be careful with all of that. Of course, a man has been observing the discussion for a long time, a respectable president, and he is often amazed at the way people act and speak in such a formal manner. But as you left... as a respectable president went over here because of a lot of handsome, there is, of course, every reason to do this in the way being done here at the council. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But then I'll find out. A senator just mentioned before, we certainly have a resource economy, but around our resources, we've built up a tremendous amount of knowledge, ocean outlets, energy and many more, and we have to transfer this into more areas. Are we a new-born nation? Yes, we are. But we might be more specific in strengthening more support there and not just centering on our resources and what we have out of them. But the knowledge industry we've built there, it's absolutely priceless for Icelandic society.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u181	Next, the president finds an answer to the scientific web, which says that it is the source of Iceland, that if you pick up those streets in logic, you lose your foothold, and you crash out of control.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u182	A respectable president. This has been an amazing discourse, and it may not be for good reason. In the end, the budget may raise more questions than that. So there is much work to be done ahead of us, going over it here at the Senate Hall, as well as the legal committee waiting to review some questions that have certainly woke up. And these questions do not reduce according to today's nuclear talks by members of Congress. Earlier today, I took a considerable amount of time to review my concerns over the financial foundation of a state fund that I'm afraid will not be self-sustaining long enough if we don't face reality as it is today. The reality is, and we have repeatedly pointed out that we had begun to make a debt far beyond our income for Covid. What are we saying about it? Yes, it turns out that it is extremely important that the state's funds are run in a sustainable way, that we try to keep on the interest and interest payments down to make sure that the Navy doesn't have to use its farms, but just as much as it does that we try, by paying off debts, by saving much of its interest costs. We can use it to punch a armored city around the systems that we feel are necessary to build up our community, whether it is our welfare system, our health, our education system, our culture, our art, so I don't talk about the investment we have to make when it comes to climate. It is clear that the business, as it appears in the budget bill, is not directly involved with the bank manager and the Sensitors in the policy of maintaining lower interest. That's a worry. The debt of the state's funds grows slightly over the next few years, so we have an insurmountable wealth just up to 2026 until we see that debt levels will change if external circumstances permit. We see the interest rate in the state's budget increased even further, and although the financial burden of the state is fair in many countries, the interest rate here is higher and greater - well - meaning, the European Union was blessed earlier, but I also want to name the euro as such. We live in a higher interest environment than our neighboring nations, our competitive nations, and although the payment of a state's debt is relatively fair compared to that of other nations, we are paying a relatively higher interest rate for less than our neighboring nations have. This is a concern, and we face the fact that interest costs have become the fifth largest currency in the state. Rather, there is reason to maintain the discussion of ensuring a short and long - term walk, and that will be the case in Relation making all this terms. We will continue to discuss our currency, how it affects the growth rate of the state's budget to be in the same currency environment as we live today, how it affects our home, how this environment affects enterprises, especially small and medium-sized enterprises and what opportunities and opportunities they have to grow and invest in innovation. We know that 70% of those who run innovation companies have said that the currency is a major factor in their growth. I'm also worried about my pay development. As with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, it is 3.5%, but the Habitat assumes about 5.6,5.8%, reminds me, and I know that the rural communities are predicting 5.2%,5.8% of the next year's pay development. This is a concern because this will result in additional financial expenses if these predictions become worse than any other. I think that part of it is unrealistic when it comes to the introduction. I've mentioned earlier that when it falls from 5.23% to 2.5%, I'm worried that it will help make it harder for us to get out of it. We agree with the government in that we want to grow out of the problem, and we must. We especially want to do this so that we can continue to do the work that the people of the land really want to do. Talk about services and health matters and unrealisticity. It was approved as a quality health policy two years ago, heading to 2030, but there is no financial promise in the plan. What pressures will it put on the state funds when we begin putting prices on what is in it? I feel unrealistic again in what has been stated on the part of the government apart from the fact that there has been only an actual increase of 0.6% or 0.7% compared to what Gylfi Zoëga has been presented on health science. I'm gonna go over the baby stuff for a minute. The greatest victory in the last election was the promise of children's affairs, education, education, social affairs, and occupations of disabled children. There's no financial charge on this bill, and I'm sorry about that. Because I'm starting to talk about the highest. Well, Minister of Education and Children, I don't think that's his name, either you can't see, and it's the sports fairy in me, how or when we're gonna start the national house for sports, handball, basketball. We really need it. This can no longer be delayed. There must be investments in that palace and promise and a vision of when it will be done. We can see that cultural contributions, including cutbacks, are being made. ... becauseof some business ventures in funds due to culture and list because of Covid, and that's something the budget has to go over and take a good look. I especially rejoice that the government has taken the lead in the Theocratic Ministry School. The School of Technology has long been working to unite Technologies School under one roof. It is of utmost importance for our professional education in the country, for our professional people who turn to the school, seek higher education there, to bring it to Hafnarfjörður. There is the opportunity to put the school underneath one roof and, at the same time, connect it to the harbor, to the industry, to the very productive job life in the area. Of course, it is a bit ironic that in the same government contract, there is no mention of what will contribute to the success and appeal of this contract, which is the city line. Hafnarfjörður is more and less the community that has set aside the city line and put it in a corner because it has been so difficult to name and work on and name the word "town line. " At the same time, we see storms forming in the town's Kópaggi structure in a much more radical and prospective manner. In Kópavogur, both the current and as much as the other side of the Bears future as the Independence Party thought to connect Kopavog to the city line. They will have two legs within their ranks before starting something to return to Hafnarfjörður. This is part of our ability to build Technologies School. We must start thinking this whole thing out of organization, that schools and monuments are, of course, connected with the infrastructure we are building up, whether in the public transport field, through the city line or through the construction of other infrastructures. These are things I'd like to mention outside the climate. A large section is missing, both in the Treaty and in the budget, when it comes to climate. Therefore, we will, because time is over here, looking for climate, environment, and energy Ministers to discuss exactly how to implement the policies set out in the Treaty, since there are no promises on how to achieve ambitious goals when it comes to climate. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There's a big hole in the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u183	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for a good speech, asking why. A senator about something. You see, these budgets that have been put forward here are meaningless, full of errors, they are really clever. These are all the words that governments have been referring to, and then we have the plan, with beautiful declarations and other things, but they do not seem to be involved with what is in the budget and where they are. A senator has had a lot of experience here at the council, has been on the budget, has been a minister, I'd like to know: Have any problems. In the past, a senator saw such tactics here at the High Council?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u184	V.E.G. President. I just want to start by saying thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Hv. A senator has a beautiful name, Gisli, but it is equally a privilege to have a place to say. a newly elected senator, a well-belonged from Hafnarfjörður, and the grandson of Einar the son of Olgeirsson. It's a little special and fun, and I wish you would. A senator is happy to be inside the council. I'm suddenly reminded that I'm one, two, or three generations older than that. Senator. But with regard to the work done on the budget: Money has often been done quickly, and it's been a thrill, but I've never been exposed to these devices, in this way. We've experienced the collapse, it was much more difficult than it was done. We are not in the straitjacket of that difficult time. It will be as we look forward to our experiences with the same government. I could understand, you know. President, if we had a complete renewal of the government. [[The president calls.]] But it's not, unfortunately, it's the same old government with the same bad old practice when it comes to this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u185	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for tracking my family down, and maybe I'll use this opportunity to do the same. But in the speech of a man. The senator mentioned national stadiums, or national palaces, and now we both have children in handball. In fact, they've, I think, been in a fight with each other in the past, and I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity and wish. Congratulations on her son's appointment to 35 men for the EM 2022. But I want to record what she said. There's a new minister handling these matters. That's the top one. A minister has talked about this as a priority, but not as a matter of fact. A senator spoke of a lack of vision. I'd like to hear a vision. A senator of the highest order. Minister of these cases should be in building a national palace.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u186	V.E.G. President. I'd like to thank you for your words, too. I learned early on that party politics is just a small matter at home in Hafnarfjörður, compared with the sports politics that runs there. A senator just has to respect it to me that this time FH Hawk won, just so it's said here and just last week. But about the national palace. What surprises me is that in a government that's been here for four years, it's got a sense of control, not merely setting down a policy, but enforcing it, a lack of wealth that comes with words. I remember that during the last term and before elections, there was a big promise that it should do something. It hasn't been done yet. I can see that the national palace will be here in the Great Funeral. There's a lot of ambition in the countryside, I can sense that. This is a teamwork project, a country, and the members of the team building the sports. [[The president calls.]] This case is supposed to have been longer than it has been, and it is the responsibility of the governmental parties that still claim that we are not beyond the current issue, but I hope that some progress will be made in this situation. [[The president calls.]] At any rate, we will maintain pressure in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u187	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir For a good review and a meaningful talk, Kattrina Þorgerður's Gunnarsdóttir was graffiti. Hv. A senator has talked a lot about the income of the state that she is concerned about, and I wanted to direct that question to. There's a senator with what might be an application. How could the government increase its income? Would be e.g. Do you think it's wise to raise hunting costs, step around them somehow? Or do you have some kind of way to go fishing? That's what I'm talking about. A senator agrees with us in the United States that those who carry the most of them in Icelandic society should pay more in common either by raising the capital tax or by adding some kind of big tax? [[The president calls.]] I'd like to hear a point of view. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u188	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for bringing in one of the largest cases in the Icelandic nation today, a community in my opinion, related to the natural division of our resources, how the rolls of them are divided among the people, because they are not necessarily divided between the nation but between its agents. It's very clear our policy in resurrection, it's one part of our core policy, that we think that the access to the resource should be placed on the market, i.e. ... themesswillbepublished, labor warrants. That's perfectly clear. We believe that this is how we're going to get a fair price, a normal price, and we've calculated that it's not likely that by that route we're going to at least double what comes into the state fund. We have suggested that this be done so that we make a deal with the project and that they can be dated from 20 to 325 years, and we may offer them up every year, perhaps, 4◯5%. It will cover what we need, thereby ensuring the nation's true control over the resource by taking the time of contracts and, on the other hand, going on a market route, an auction route to the part of halos offered up. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u189	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for good and clear answers. Now, there are extremely few groups here at the council, and they have a very limited body of Congress, which accept the idea of saying goodbye and thus fetching market prices for the fish in the sea. Maybe I'd like to direct that question to fun. Senator what kind of compromises? A senator would be pleased to support and participate. We in the United States put these elections in order to promote ideas that until the development and implementation of some kind of auction route in the fishing grounds, perhaps it would be a step - by - step process so that all the biggest fishing projects would pay special stress at the fishing fee. It has been calculated that this can be 2◯3 billion. Is this something a natural? A senator would like that?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u190	A respectable president. Our media would never be a temporary way that could be supported by an unjust system. So the first step for us is to set up contracts with the export, to set up the contracts for the access to the resource. This is the key, and this is the issue of the Constitution and the government's resource regulations. But let us also just say things as they are: This government here is no coincidence. It's because this government, led by the left green, will make sure nothing is affected in the water. Nothing will be moved when it comes to the resources of a nation. Despite all the beautiful words in the covenant, nothing can be touched, and this is dangerous. Therefore, I would like to encourage whether the United States of America or any other political group to keep the government in place, to ask the unpleasant questions about why it is not worth more in the common fund of the people of the country. And, yes, I am quite prepared to examine any means that will contribute to an increase in justice when it comes to loading the fishing grounds. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The current system doesn't work. We have shown this many times - whether on polls or elsewhere - to the people's sense of justice. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u191	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for an interesting talk earlier. Today, there has been a little discussion about this development and the new distribution of projects to the various Ministers, who doubt whether they themselves know what to do and why their staff are not sure what to be done. I wondered how the senator feels about this new arrangement and the transition of projects that we see with this arrangement, which, first of all, does not seem to be anything special about how a project is divided or how many the Ministry is. Rather, it seems to be based on the number of governments missing in order to keep the marriage going. But I wondered, " What does the senator think about this, perhaps especially in terms of the development of projects that hear under the Ministry of Education or are related to education? ' [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I am very interested in knowing what the senator has to say about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u192	A respectable president. I believe that governments, members of the Parliament, have made room for some adjustments in the Council of Government. It is in nature. But I feel worse when it's done in the way it is now, that everything is being put in the air, and then, in the end, it's all about: how can we squeeze it together so we'll be the 12 Ministers? You need to add one minister, just say things the way they are. A minister had to be added to meet the election's election. Four ministers had to be served, and they were only about to step up the Board of Directors. Some things are okay over there, but it's just out of a map. I'm afraid a certain class of subjects will suffer for random, vain moments, changing the Council. There are some things that are good, I'm not going to reduce them, but there are other things that are quite dangerous and very ill thinking, at least not thinking. [[The president calls.]] I don't think there's any room for this to be, but there's a lot of work to be done. [[The president calls.]] This is not acceptable, as it is now.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u193	Mr. President. The answer was interesting again. I thank the senator very much. I find it especially interesting to hear that the senator may be justified in dividing problems simply for political practitiony reasons. I wondered if the senator is then, for example. Resisting proposals and ideas on limiting the number of advisers permanently or whether there is a final number of advisers who might be available. But I'm particularly interested in the senator's position on this distribution between recruitment practices that are different and that quickly change. Is this acceptable for political practitioners?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u194	A respectable president. I may not have reported this enough. I think there's room for the government to jump up only in the management system if there's a basis for professional viewpoints about the jury, not just the politics. On the other hand, we are experiencing today the change in the Council of Directors because progress was missing the Fourth Ministry, so that everyone would be happy and would be happy. We have seen it over the years that it has been the prime minister who has taken, for example. part of the culture or culture referred to as being part of the Ministry of Presidency. Then they moved back. Then came the current prime minister and took some of the equality into his ministry. Then perhaps four years from now, Prime Minister, who is deeply interested in ocean research, will arrive. Will the minister, then, be taking sea research into the Ministry of Presidency? That's what I'm talking about. Not just that there's an amateur minister and it's a lot of fun or that some particular people want certain topics to come to them, but we have to say, "Yes, we're changing because it serves the community better, because we're going to serve better because we're moving ahead in the fields of innovation, evolution, climate or whatever, but not to settle some political elections. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u195	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter for her introductory plan here tonight. I just wanted to talk to the senator about communication between state and rural society and public transportation in the capital area. I agree with the senator's comments, and I rejoice that the School of Technology at Hafnarfjörður is to be built and viewed as a major step forward and normal. I call the attention of the president and the rest of the council to the fact that it is as far away from Reykjavík as from Hafnarfjörður. I would like to introduce the senator better as she was saying about the city line, which the government actually calls the high quality of public transportation. Is the senator willing to agree with me that there are relatively ambitious plans for the government?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u196	A respectable president. Yes, I have a measure of concern, having left greens within the government, that they have not managed to resist better. I want to call this a form of syndrome into the other two conservative groups, this syndrome can be attributed to the Central Party or to the emphasis of those who oppose the city line and are only honest in it, as the middle party is only honest in it and is opposed to the city line because of certain viewpoints and grounds. Others, however, are not particularly honest, but they find it very difficult to say the word city line. I would have liked to have seen a far greater ambition in a government led by the left movement a green supply in the areas that affect the city line. I would have preferred to see the speed of the project in the budget or in a government contract rather than that which is presented in this statement. There's no ambition.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u197	V.E.G. President. Yes, that's exactly where me and the senator agree. There's no ambition. It'll even come. so that public donations and investments should not be raised in the city line. The government is not going to do more, which would have been so moist and simple to speed up construction on the city line, to build a more stable public transportation in the capital area, and, of course, to work completely by trying to achieve the climate goals. But it's, like, cot. A senator may point out, for example, that the left movement has been offered in the focus of this government because it is now all part of the debate, which certainly claims to be green but is not involved when it comes to public transportation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u198	A respectable president. I can agree with anything. paritaprevir Þórunn Sveinbjarnardóttir Beardd said here. I would also like to draw it out in the overall context, and earlier today, that in recent years, there are investments under the average of infrastructure, including transport. There's been a slight increase last year, but now it's time to relax again, and there's concern. I wondered: " Is it fear that the city line will be too much? But it is a lucrative investment in the interior in the long run. When people are here talking about their opposition to the city line, they are not looking at the overall picture, how this city - line arrangement will affect the situation. on rural management, on quality of life, on air quality as well as on climate. When all of this is taken together, it is important that these developments and promises be followed with determination and ambition.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u199	Madam President. We are discussing the budget of a new government by 2022, a government that had the longest time for decades to negotiate government cooperation. But they obviously did not use their time to do anything but argue about things they basically disagreed about, things such as highland parks, environments, and the crime of drugs. No, I don't think they've had a fight about it, though. I think they were only always smooth on the crime charge of drugs, unfortunately, otherwise the prime of the former health minister would have been approved. Although there are many similarities between the members of the government, the things that understand so fundamentally that you would never have thought that they had a real chance of continuing the administrative work after four progressive years, four years of resolution in a great disturbance of time and change that would have been a significant need to move forward, as we looked up in aphuscitation in so many areas of society, where the opportunities were not new to look forward but to thinking about how to protect the present system. When a pandemic situation arose, it was asked how to protect the companies, not the people, how to protect the economy, not the homes, and the jobs. Now I'm not saying that the basis of the company in this country isn't important, that it's not important to feed them, it's not supposed to be the only focus of large measures in times such as Covid. But somehow the government managed to find enough thin slices to get together on continued cooperation. During the past two months, the left movement was useful at finding a way to give up all the major struggles to the Independence Party; the environment and climate; the fight against violence, even a strong public health system has now come on the shoulders of the forwarding party. But they obviously did not find any time to update their plans to a financial bill that has been placed since spring. Now, for the third time in five years, we are making budgets in the fall of time pressure, for which there is no good reason. There's no good reason for this, Mr. President. They were supposed to be elections for spring. The Senate is full of newly elected senators who are still learning to do the work, and we are going to give this important bill at some final source just before Christmas. The senators are so quick that the chairman of the budget board even sent them a report without consulting the committee as expected by the Senate. I don't know if I need less. Much of the Generals' work for that, but it's the council that has the legal authority, not the Ministry of finance, not the highest. Bjarni Benediktsson's secretary for financial matters and not why. Chairman of the budget board by himself. It is the council to make an informed decision on the cost of the State. This all too strong a political tendency to drive the budget through in record time just before Christmas is not just unprofessional, it directly reduces the capacity of the Parliament to perform its administrative role, and it's unfortunate. I remind you again that if it had been spring elections, if an advanced government, who is also present, could have seen from those few months in their power chairs to correct the terms of the election, we wouldn't be in this position right now. Then the summer would have been for a ballot board to win and for a government to form a government. We would have been putting up a budget bill at the proper time and at the proper time without being in the endless world of amateurs we tend to be in. The budget also provides an opportunity to evaluate the promises of the political parties from that time in elections: Are these three groups fulfilling their campaign promise? It may be difficult to appreciate that most people do not provide funding programs, such as Pirats and me. Now I've been sitting in meetings more and less since the budget was distributed and so I haven't had much time to go over it than where I'm sitting. I have a review of the language fields under the committee to understand the policy of the administrations. Immediately, the size of the eye is over 600 million. K. Reservation of the chemical field of disability and the affairs of disabled people. That's 300 million of them. K. Reservation of the micro-energy pension class while 300 million. K. Reservation decks pay the price according to social assistance laws. In fact, I have to admit that I'm not exactly how the government groups are going to achieve this, because if there's one group of cases they've completely failed to grasp, it's a matter of disability. It is clear that during the last terms, a minister was a minister of the language field who had no intention of dealing with disability, unfortunately. The government's actions have not been in order to exercise the authority of disability and to give them more independent lives or to help them with their skills again. We can only see this in the fact that there is a simple right to help those who are disabled. That someone thinks it's okay just to share rights on the grounds that there's a good night, that not everyone has access to that right, but only some, is just a very amazing measure. Much further, the government groups have been behind creating a more complex, more complex system of reforms and impairment traps, systems that actually keep people in disability, and from the effectiveness of all who want to participate in the community being punished by penalties. The efforts of the board of directors to fix the problem often involve more use of force. An attempt to force an individual's ability to evaluate disability to anxious degree is an example of this. All the government's actions during the last term focused on making the life disability more right, just that right. A respectable president. The way to achieve savings in this category, if there are even goals, is simply to give people more freedom, to gain more control over their lives, to earn money, or to control their lives as they please. Refuse is not provided with stricter rules. It just sustains more people in poverty, and it costs a lot. I am so disappointed that we seem completely unable to look at the big picture and see the cost of maintaining the poverty of people in this way. It's a bit of a shame. When the government introduced its government contract several days ago, she said she was going to invest in people. Who are the people the government's plans to invest in? The 20,000 persons living and moving in this system are not investing, they are not being invested. They may be investing in other people. Perhaps the government has other ideas about which people she thinks are worth investing in or may not understand what it means to invest in people. I don't know, but I don't see in this financial bill that they're going that way. Perhaps the government is prepared to invest in all kinds of industry ensuring more funding for the companies she saved in the Covid crisis. Maybe she's going to invest in her resignations like she did last summer. At least I can't see she's going to invest in the people who need it most. It seems to me it's much better to show them the people. There's also something else involved in this bill. It seems that poor people and those who have been remembered among their hands are not getting that investment. It's just a flat retreat. There's no logical support for how to achieve it. The U.S. National Insurance Agency has to find only 600 million. K. in addition to squeezing out of micro-energy pensioners. A respectable president. I hope a financial committee takes these classes to the contrary of their work. Now that a pandemic has lasted for two years, the need for our support systems to function has rarely or never been greater. The people who fall out of a job market and go either on unemployment benefits or even get disability assessments must live in that our systems are well - funded. We must make it possible for them to deal with the number of people in need of service. A respectable president. I'd also like to mention that I don't seem to be expected to work on the government's welfare benefits, but, as we some of them, a government accountant's report to the General Assembly on the government's affairs of the state of Human Insurance Agency was issued. The report contained seven main messages. First, the decision - making process had to be added. Increased numbers of customers received correct payment. Think only of it: Increase the proportion of customers that receive the right payment. It is only customary for government insurance agencies to get the wrong payment. It's just like that and it's been that long. Of course, people are to be paid correctly. Then you have to complete a full reexamination of the Social Security Act. There is an increased emphasis on social security issues. The whole model has to be played in pensions. The Agency's emissary agents need to be reviewed by the county bodies, and funds have to be used more fully in accordance with their purpose. I hope that a financial committee will be considered to have money available to respond to the changes necessary to the Commission next year. It is clear that insurance agencies fail to carry out their administrative roles, especially in view of the fact that they are caring for a vulnerable group of servants. The report gave many indications that services to them were far from acceptable. I'm also going to point it to what? The well - being committee and its new chairman that we need to adopt this case, for this important report was presented showing huge flaws and difficulties in the government insurance agency that has to be fixed. I'm gonna keep this case up on a welfare committee. A respectable president. Clearly, we lack time to finish our job with a decent budget. That would have been true and would have been necessary to start much earlier. It would have been right to give much more time for work. However, from this point on, a legal committee is forced to make the best of a difficult situation. I hope they're going well, and I wish them good luck on that assignment, but I'm sorry we're going to get in the same position all the time. We make the same mistake over and over, and we never seem to learn. Although I have hope, I feel less than a little hope. I haven't finished my speech, because now I'm going to go into the hope that I see in the future, go outside this financial bill that I feel is completely lacking all of it. I'm going to let myself go because my colleague is president and I'm sure he'll allow me to, but I'm sorry for that, okay? Buckminster Fuller, one of my favorite minds, said something like that, and now I'm saying, "You'll never change anything by fighting against the present reality." To change something, you need to create a new model that makes the current model out of date. What I take out of this is that we must have a clear view of the future that people can join in fighting instead of fighting against the present situation. And just as Buckminster Fuller said, the solution is to create a new model that makes the current model out of date. I feel that it is always the most important thing to talk about the future. But I think it's important that we always look to the opium in everything we do. That's the way to move society, develop society. I'd like to discuss the climate issues in this context, because the results in climates require major solutions, and we don't achieve small-change goals here and there. We need both mental and systemic changes. We need to attack the root cause. It is the economy that has put on growth and consumption above anything else. There is also another reason why I am very disappointed with the budget bill, especially in view of the Supreme Court. The prime minister has talked a lot about it and emphasized the prosperity and prosperity of the economy. You can't see from this budget bill. I don't know how often the word "hap growth" appears on the budget bill. Now I'm not saying that economic growth is not important, but economic growth is one changing by so many. And that this overemphasis is on economic growth, and when it comes to the quality of society, it's just showing me that the quality of the economy and the beauty of the world's wealth. Prime Minister and current government are now empty. It's empty. I have a feeling they don't understand what the economy really is or what it means. In order to turn bad developments into climate, we need a much more integrated economic and environmental planning. Without economic change, there will be no viable environment, and without the environment there will be no economy. This understanding includes not being afraid to bring up big ideas, asking big questions, and setting goals. In order for us to succeed, we must dare. Only in this way can we bring the discussion of climate at home, that it is not about whether we change our bases and approach, but how and when. Even if the discussion is needed, it will not become unconcerned. It's never a call for big changes. That is why it is so important to remember that change is inevitable in life. Progress requires our adaptability, our ability to change to the needs of our society and the environment. That's one of the reasons why in the present government community, together groups that are certainly all conservative groups, but they have so different visions and basic ideas when it comes to the largest categories of languages in our society, it just all happens, it doesn't happen, they don't get together. And in these times, we must change to the needs of society and the environment. Otherwise, we'll just be left behind. In the economic discussion, we often seem to forget that the economy is just people, the economy is just the ideas people receive and how they process. Economic systems are the product of thinking and ideas that have evolved over the years. Our imaginations about recreation were once based on fishing and collecting, followed by agriculture, industry, and the last modern Chipmunks. These are all different methods of organizing communities, institutions, and cultures. None of this has ever been a piece of stone. None of these things have ever been irreformable laws of nature. These systems are man-made, they are our work and they can be changed. And climate demands change, that's clear. Not just the climate, there are so many other things going on in our community, technology progress, etc. which requires changes. We must be courageous and face specific basic questions about the benefits of the systems we have tailored to. Are they really serving the whole body? It is incredibly important to revise a economic system based on ideologies. I know I've said this a dozen times before, and I keep saying that this: the concept of linearly infinite economy. It's just a line that goes up forever on a planet that doesn't have infinite resources to control. The word picture must sound crazy, Mr. President. We're simply stealing the future, selling it in the present, calling it gross domestic product. That thought must belong to the past. In order to get a step into a green and sustainable future, we need to step out of the world's hamster wheel, change our priorities, listen to nature, and join in its collapses, and most important, we need to give ourselves time, our most valuable resource, our time. Me and the Piratars, and I especially, have put much emphasis on ensuring all the groundless superficial development, an idea that many people think is crazy about. In fact, more people thought that she was crazy some years ago when I started discussing it. Today I've earned a few allies, but still, there's a lot of people who think it's a galin-utopian idea. But we do know that when a person's basic security and financial independence are assured, it will improve the spiritual and physical health of those who enjoy security. Loyal progress increases urban freedom, increases community involvement, and the acquiring of knowledge becomes more than a simple means of earning a living. It is so important that our education system is not merely to graduate to the workforce. It must not be our goal in education. There's got to be more. Knowledge must be worth more than simple tools to earn a salary. Time and space are available to care more and more than to draw out life. It's more than just right to stay floating, just to make ends meet. The value of self - sacrifice and tolerance grow and is strengthened along with a powerful human rights protection. In the campaign we talked about, and I talk about it, the importance of developing a system where everything comes up and thrives because of the people's needs and passions in the country, a economy that grows around and replaces us with being the authority above, a prosperous economy with the citizens where a relentless profit raise will be replaced by a sustainable happy society. President. I miss the fact that in the government's economic actions to deal with Covid, the opportunity was not new and steps were taken in order to experiment with the idea of empowering individuals of economic situation, i.e. Creates space for people to walk in the workforce at their own pace, creates something, lets the ideas become commodistic reality, keep people in limited prisons, return prisons where they have no room to move and test themselves. It was a lost chance. We could have taken steps to give people greater freedom to pursue their dreams. Who knows what would have been accomplished if the funds, or part of the financial resources involved in supporting the economy, had been involved in strengthening and releasing the intelligence of people, especially those who lost their jobs and those who had little between their hands in the community. The conclusion of many factors is well - known. It is good spiritual and physical health, equations, fairness, positive social connections, and flourishing ecosystems. Only a complete approach to prosperity can achieve and maintain social well - being. Real freedom and success depend on a society in which all of us have opportunity to thrive. The organization serves best when it nurtures and increases respect for the individual as well as increases our ability to develop a healthy bond. To prosper, all institutions, as well as businesses and communities, need to focus on a new purpose, the common welfare of a healthy planet. I would have liked to see us initiate massive civil experimentation and see the Covid operation, the government's financial operations, which would have been the best opportunity to do that. However, a conditional framework will be used as a speed-up to transform the economy towards real self-improvement, not merely a virtual prowess as seen in all too many companies. The financial security network, which allows us to make room for us to choose a work that really matters to us so that we can choose work based on ethical and environmental views, e.g. so that the demand for green jobs is driven by individual ideas rather than by government. And since civilian pay will strengthen the contract between workers in the workplace, they will encourage companies to take up improved workaholics and environmental interests. The aim of the 21st century's economic policy must be to meet the needs of all within the limits of the user-friendly resources based on planet Earth's biologicality. This is of utmost importance. I don't see any goals in these budgets and in the financial bill we have to agree with now. We have every opportunity to create a rich society in which no one needs to suffer. But I suspect that the ideologies that dominate this budget are based on ideologies that simply don't believe that you can live in a society where no one has to suffer in need. [[The president calls.]] It's the only thing. I can think of no reason other than the fact that we haven't. You can't believe it's possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u200	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra, Mogensen, for an excellent speech. There are certain points I would like to include in my speech. Senator. The talk was primarily a talk about the ability of disability to enter the work market and to enjoy in the context of a vacation market that is higher than what is being practiced today. I'd like to link this up, the situation of the elderly and the circumstances of the elderly. In the Middle Ages, we have had considerable opinions about how to improve the interests of older people who can and would like to work. I think the group of cripples who are in the position both able and willing to work, whether to improve their income status or to get out and be able to stay out in conventional society, I think that he wants to be very rich in both groups. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether Pirata's vision is on a pair, as it were, regarding the status of the elderly and the disability of the elderly, or whether these groups are viewed as different. I think, at all, it would be not just to put these groups more into the community but to each person who wants and can benefit from working or doing whatever the person thinks is to improve his or her social life. But the system as it is today, people write it down. [[The president calls.]] The question to what? The senator is: Are these groups balanced? [[The president calls.]] If not, what does that involve?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u201	President. I want to thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. If we go back to the former social minister only - now these Minister's names and offices are all changed and I can't tell you exactly what it's called now - then social security ministers were doing pretty well during the last term in revising child protection. But as I said in a talk earlier, there were groups of people he was responsible for, who he completely failed during that terms. These included older people and disabilityrs. There was a recent report on the development of poor spiritual health on disability. Eight out of ten microorganisms find it difficult to make ends meet, and a similar proportion has refused health care. There are a lot of scarring that suffers from poor mental health and social isolation, and many of the same applies to older people. I can only imagine what this is like now by Covid. It is also something that we need to consider much more fully how the government's actions have affected these groups who were already in a more delicate position when it comes to spiritual health and poverty. What will the inactivity of this class cost us in the long run? It is not just a cost in money but a human suffering. I'm worried that we don't really care enough about these people. We need to do much better. But I'm in the middle of it, and I thought it was a long time for civilian pay, that whether it's older people, poor older ones, or others, we should sort them out of the prisons they are in. We are to ensure that all are free to live their lives as they please.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u202	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. That's how to move on where it's at. A senator divorced about the civil pay then I've had certain doubts about part of the appointment proposed by the Congress of Porta. But I think, away from political differences, we need to find a way for each individual to have the opportunity to make the best of what is in it. In this context, I'd like to review some of the stories received in the fall, about as schools were about to start. Then, if I recall correctly, it was either 700 or 800 people who wanted to start a trade education that did not have the opportunity to do so. There was a totally unscrupulous situation after the government's repeated exposure to the importance of industrial education and the need for more industrial education when compared to book studies and granting them the opportunity to do the things they wanted to do. I thought it all looked like this, so complete, must've messed up pretty bad. It is quite amazing that there are 800 people who do not want to go to the study they want during the same year in 3 60,000 human society. Although this may not be a direct conclusion on the matter of unfounded progress, this is still the case with those who do not enjoy the study or study that they want to do, it is more likely to experience some form of purposelessness in life. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'd like to hear what I'm thinking. The senator is here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u203	The president reminds the speakers that there is only so much time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u204	President. I'll just take my whole mind off with what's happened. Senator. For me, our job here is to create some kind of soil for people to be able to, if I use that illustration again, just grow and thrive on my own terms. So we are to make sure that all our systems are designed to serve the needs of the people in our country. Of course, if there is a call for further education in some article, we need to respond in a way that allows the study to be available for those who wish to pursue it. This is vitally important, especially if we are looking at the changes in technology that are developing in society. We talk about the fourth industrial revolution and how we make sure that somehow the same rights in the future that we have been building up for decades today and longer than that. With all these technological advances, jobs will disappear. What kind of education do we need? What's next? It is so uncertain that it is important that we are not thinking of education as some sort of tool or tool for the work market. We must think about these things from the knowledge itself and give people just the opportunity to gain some sort of inner meaning. That must be what it's all about, that people feel a purpose in life. That is what moves on with joy, happiness, and success in life, to feel a purpose. Part of it is being able to pick up opportunities that each one wants and burns for and is interested in, no matter what work he does or what people do after he has educated himself. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u205	A respectable president. I cut it at the end of the day. A senator spoke of investing in people. That's exactly where I agree. Senator. I remember that when we had it. A senator sat on a Senate Committee on the subject of children during the last term when we combined stressed that we would get an economist to determine how much it would cost our community not to do what we were working together to do. It was agreed to consider benefits from investing in children, evaluating profits for Icelandic society, making financial profits. It was thrilling to see that such price could be put on a project and because of it. A senator spoke of investing in people, I decided to search in the document, this temporary financial bill of the government, which hopefully will also be temporary, and that there become an investment 39 times, but that investments are never about investing in people, unfortunately, because everyone probably thinks it's a matter of investing money, but that's spending when we're serving our people. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agrees?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u206	President. I appreciate that answer. I remember exactly what I thought was amazing, that it was done. But I also thought to myself at the same time, since we're talking about it, that this economist was working on not only what all these changes are, but where savings are involved in the future, and there's an incredibly complex calculation. This is never something accurate, but I can figure it out, and then I thought to myself, " Wait, if they can do this, now there's an example, why isn't this done in a lot more language areas? ' And why is this not a calculation that is found, e.g. On the budget bill? Why can we not view this as part of the bigger picture? It is quite clear that when the busiest people in the community get extra provisions, they return to the economy in the form of taxes, such as a tax tax. But it also comes in the savings of the health system; it returns within the education system; it often results in savings in the punishment system as well. This constant fear of having to give up health care because of poverty does not help people to recover. This only adds to people's illness, and it costs. So when we're talking about maintenance requirements and maintenance requirements in the budget, I miss not asking, " How much does that cost? ' What's the cost of this straggler? Because there is no number to find, and that is a huge cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u207	A respectable president. I didn't like to thank you. A senator for his talk and will now thank her for her response. I'm just wondering, because now it's legal that we don't have a particular cost analysis, whether or not we should join to bring up some sort of Congress case here that obliges the government to do exactly this work. If this fine economist, Björn Brynjúlfur Björnsson, who worked his job fevel, since he managed to assess economic damage, economic damage by not doing things in this particular example, trying to catch the children before, it can be done too when it comes to mental health issues, where the government was willing to put 100 million in the Psychological Service, calculations that are even the one that is no mathematician, on the other hand, understand, such as calculating, when an older person is dead and waits for the land hospital to live in a space of 150,000,000. 24 hours rather than being in a nursing home, which will cost 40,000 dollars. daily. In the account, I wondered if we should not have the government to contribute this calculation, how much it costs not to do things.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u208	President. This is a live assembly case. This sounds incredibly reasonable and amazing, in fact, that this is not done, because it applies to so many extraordinary things, so many proverbs in our community. It's some kind of thing against looking at the whole thing and I suspect, working here for a few years now, that it's also written on this little pair of slippers culture. It's just the Ministers of their power with their classes, and it's the class, and nobody wants to share it with anyone else, they just want it for themselves, which, as a result, makes it much more difficult for these individuals to work together in the public interest. Now, my intention is not to say that public interests are never being worked out. Of course it is, but there are obstacles. It's only obstacles that prevent full vision, that the Ministry can work better together and somehow get better together so that we can see some overall picture of this and can look up from this excel-box and into a closer look at the cost or maintenance note at a local agency often means a lot of money in another department. Reservation of social issues, in climate issues, in the environment is merely an enormous bill for health ministers. This is something I would like to see us working together to solve because I think it would bring a lot back to society.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u209	A respectable president. As I mentioned earlier, reading the budget bill is of interest. Despite some evidences that we have only extremely raw waves in our hands, in many respects they are exposed. Even since there may not be large numbers, they tell a great story. I took note of the reading that the budget of the Ministry of Premiers is down 15 billion. K. There's not much money in the big context, but it's dropping, as temporary financial rights due to the Board of Directors are dropped. This may be a smart one, but is this evidence indicating that this committee of directorship changes is not immediately on the program? If it is to be mentioned, we may not know what the prime minister meant by setting up a professional job and speaking there as if nothing had happened. There wouldn't have been anything done in the Constitution so far, and we'd just start doing this now, so in view of the fact that this out - of - date constitution we live in was blown up in our face two months ago. It's out of shape with what's at the highest. The prime minister, by permission of the president, said in his policy discourse: ◯ Four years ago, I worked out a plan to change the constitution in two terms. I will continue preparatory work on a later strategy and during the election season I will discuss with the presidents here at the Council whether there is a desire to continue the suggestions for change. That was especially interesting to me. Then I wondered if it really did go unnoticed. Prime Minister that it is the president of the other classes, with whom she has decided to form a government with, who has stood alone in the way of government changes that could have occurred here ten years ago. For ten years, ten years, ten years, this work has been successfully prevented from continuing and at its highest level. The prime minister is now going to examine their feelings for the new constitution. I'd like to say that it will be interesting to see what comes out of that conversation, but I suspect I know. Actually, I suspect the highest. The prime minister knows the same thing, and this is all for perfunctory purposes. During the discussions with the High School of Iceland, I understand that law students are told to read the Constitution and forget everything it says about an Icelandic government directive where it is, in fact, completely different. It's not like that. This is just because the Constitution we have today is cut and taped from the Constitution of the kingdom of Denmark, which can be said to have been written at the same time as the King's, replaced by a date - now I'm trying to translate quickly a man tamed from English - and there were replaced with the words made by the King, replaced by a president. Therefore, this constitution is not acceptable for an independent nation. It is not acceptable because it does not even reflect the current regime. Then we're not even discussing the changes people might wish to make on the board or on something else, e.g. to mention nature, in the constitution at the time, the mind wasn't there, or in the Icelandic language, I think there would be many who would view it as a good change if it were ever mentioned by name. I wondered what the Independence Party is afraid of in the new constitution. You are often trying to read people's thoughts when you feel that they are not completely understood about what they think. I've talked to many friends and people I'm in a good relationship with, honest friends with, about this matter, and I've tried to get to the bottom of it and to get different answers. But most of the time it is something like this: I would say the second sentence in the 40th and some paragraph suggested, just different. But I can't believe that's why. That can't be why. I have stopped wondering what it is that the Independence Party is afraid of. It's probably an increase in public power, I don't think it's unlikely. But there is nothing more to do than to try to read people's thoughts when they are not willing to express their thoughts. Still, what I'm still trying to understand and have not been told, whether I understand or believe, is how they managed to convince the left green that it was something that didn't matter. I'm still curious. In fact, there are very few left-hand greens in a house like the situation, but I'd like to see someone explain to me how this happened. It is true that before the left green began this administrative work, the course of the party was to complete a new constitution. A new constitution, not just some painting piece that would be obvious from the very beginning not to be accepted, like it's the highest. During the last term, the prime minister tried. Well, it's clear that the highest. During the last term, the prime minister was alone in his attempts to paint. It may reveal even more the mind of her corulers. This time it takes even more out of the way. She's going to investigate the interest of the heads of the administrations on the case as the election passes, and we've got plenty of time. It's been a decade, and we're just jam sheets over it. Let's not forget that there was a member of that body, who was the head of the constitution bill she moved alone to the Board of Directors and Control Committee. It was, in fact, largely motionless for months by chance. When an agent of Pirata tried to establish a committee sheet that could be joined, which included bringing the regulations of the bill in harmony with the nation's will, in line with the bill of the Council of Government, then the manager of the case was not to discuss it. He was not prepared with his own commission or any suggestions for change. He never set aside the committee as a relief committee. So serious was this experiment with left greens to change the constitution. V.E.G. President of the Republic, Guðni Th. Jóhannesson, here at the council recently said that the Constitution was put to sleep in a committee of committees here at the General Assembly, only half the truth. The Constitution was brought to sleep by a group of left green members who sat in the government at that time and had a story on the bill. And now, several months later, when the government has renewed its vows, she obviously intends to discontinue all preparatory work as well. But let us not doubt that. This is what I read from this, but it's not a bigger change in next year's budget. Little bit of the financial bill, though.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u210	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Arndís Anna Kristínardóttir's daughter of Gunns' Gunnarsdóttir for an excellent speech. As we may know, when it comes to the constitution, we do not share all the exact same views. However, it is clear that we both want to work that something is moving here. Nothing has moved here because it's not the political will of the majority. I want to thank you. A senator in particular pointed out that these contributions are being cut down. Just so it's clear, as I look at the Constitution cases, there are the same categories at the council now that were at the beginning of the last term, and those classes had agreed on a form of work to change the constitution. We agreed the Constitution would be changed in eight years. Starting with 12 years of administration, we made it for eight years, and it was final, very clear. The law of wealth was there to be a proverb; it was deceitful. There were environmental regulations, Icelandic regulations, and the Presidential bull. It is clear, and it is true. A senator says that after that, the bills and the major reason why this is stopped are that the remaining two members of the government are stopping the matter. It is clear that no one is on their side to move anything. However, I view this agreement as still valid. I don't see that it's just one-sided that can be said off the left green without talking to us. So I'm just saying, the project of this terms is going to work that we planned for during the last term and those we're going to this term, and it's going to take place. of the equal value of votes, of this national pay, and of other remarkable things that we were going to touch, and of continuing our work. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u211	A respectable president. Hv. A senator uses the words: "Keep your work going. You see, it looks like, as I mentioned earlier, to the highest. Prime Ministers feel that work has not begun, that it needs to be started. Again, they trouble me with these questions that I feel I have never heard, which are: Why is this a problem? Why has this not been arranged long ago? These are the most important things we can agree on. Of course, there is no way to win. People may have some comments to these things, and I understand them. I wouldn't personally accept the Council of Government as much as I do. However, there have already been changes. A lot of work has been done, and this work must continue. I don't understand why we can't keep having this conversation, why the Independence Party doesn't have a discussion on this subject. I can't figure it out. To date, they have claimed that the Constitution is only fine, much of the way it is. Then's interesting to point out, that I think, to 46. gr. The Constitution has not been mentioned in discussions about what needs to be changed into this constitution, and we can agree that it is out - of - date. And what happens? We are now facing the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, which had not had to be done. This would not have to be such an enormous failure, although there were other factors that really did not make it work out well at first. But it is clear that there is no longer any way to claim that this constitution is just fine and valid exactly as it is. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u212	A respectable president. Just so that we are told only of the officers'work during the last term, it was quite clear that the prime minister and we who were at work would not need more expert opinion, because it's all come down, that there's already been a political stand here at the council, that we at this council could take a stand on the existing recommendations. It was stopped by the majority categories. They are responsible that we did not succeed in taking up a political discussion on the resource problem. There's the knife in the cow. Left green, once left and once green, and no longer so, have simply adopted a government government to enforce the ideologies, policies, and ideals of the two groups, the forward groups, and the independent groups. In the end, it's a matter of interest. You can't interfere with the resources of this country by using a proper resource directive, which is the means for the nation. You can't do that. Put on an ice cream. Do you think it's equal with votes? No. Despite the repeated pleas and the rich will of the nation to accept it, the poll of the officers'work repeatedly called on them. No, it's on ice. It's rocking too much boat. May the expeditation laws be discussed, that the people simply get the tools and tools in the constitution to control their own future and where they consider their interests to be best paid in international cooperation? No, it's rocking too much boat. It's too much interests. Put on an ice cream. This is intolerable, and this is what this government is going on. It is possible to have a lot of beautiful bats in a government contract, a case that we would like to agree with, and a more radical one, such as in climate, welfare, more responsible for financial matters. But in the end, this is exactly what it means. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The nation's major interests will not be addressed as long as that government is seated.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u213	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator before the counter, especially since the Senate's work during the last term was inexplicable, where I was in other places doing other things. Not that it surprises me. It had become completely obvious. I think all the experts in the country who could possibly have some opinion or have something to say about the constitution, whether they were asked or not, have said their opinion, had a complete diagnosis. It's interesting to hear that it was actually recognized here at the council that the experts'work was done. How much better can you tell of the cry of a cry of perspiration that is a claim that a team of experts must be put on - to do what? Maybe I should have asked for the Supreme Being. Prime Minister under this discussion, but most likely we just have to have that conversation later because I'm curious and I'd like to hear the answer. I'd love to understand. I believe that to be effective in discussions and in any way that we do in life, it is important to listen and understand the attitude of those whom we do not consider to be understood.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u214	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the talk that was quite good and that I love very much about the content of that talk. But speaking of money, we're here discussing the budget and whether we can afford to afford to afford the health systems that can serve the people of the country, whether we can afford to remove people from the clutches, whether we can afford to fix the ruined road around the country, to build new mental centers, and to relieve the suffering of those who are in pain. Talk about money, talking about constitution, counting back. A senator that we could possibly afford to run a more powerful, more powerful community if we were to adapt the resource directive to the Constitution, if we were to get a fair drop from the nation's common resources? Counts 'em out. A senator that there is the answer to the questions that are faced in the provisional financial bill of the reign of St. Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, Bjarni, son of Benediktsson, the Sigred Sigurður of Ingi Jóhannsson, that there is the answer and that until this can be solved, we will somehow continue in this child?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u215	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for speaking straight. It is unpleasant and bad to be moved to please people, what to say, dishonest purpose, and other things, but certainly you suspect all kinds of things. There are ideas when you do not get an explanation for what people are thinking. Of course, you want to ask, " Why don't they just say that? ' Why don't you just say, "No, we don't want this resource problem because we're losing a lot of money, or how it is, the discrepancies here and what they think is terrible about it - why can't you just say that? Why can't you just say, "Hey, we're gonna take these things and we're gonna talk about them, but we don't want this resource problem. " We can't discuss this. They can't talk about this constitution. They don't want to see it. I thought it for some time, but you may not believe it if people won't admit it. However, there may be other things in these constitutions that reduce the power of those who have the authority and increase the authority of those who have less. This may not be likely to happen to those in authority. But I just don't understand why we can't talk about it, why we can't review it, and why we can't come to some conclusion, and finally put it in the nation's judgment. The reason for this is likely because they would be destroyed by the nation's judgment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u216	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Yes, I'm just wondering, because it's not the natural laws or the lack of financial resources of the medical system. Also, to ensure that older ones do not have a carefree life night is not a natural law of nature. Poverty is not a natural law, it is a political decision. But there are various laws - from reason to reason. A senator is here to discuss the Constitution - in the old records that should ensure this despite all. It is just not being carried out, as it were, as it were a number of other requirements. I'll mention 30. G., my favorite law, which suggests that a president may, either himself or by hiding it, decide that a certain individual does not have to comply with the law, and then he must comply with the rules that have the right to do such a thing. Of course, none of the Presidents of the Republic of Iceland used this provision, but no one had used any 26. until it was applied. May we expect the President of Iceland to use this requested arrangement to reduce the inequities? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-03-4.u217	A respectable president. Thank you. For this interesting indication, a senator must admit that there will be a mental connection to hearing this law read here. I made it a game to look it up, while it hit. A senator spoke, and it just seems quite clear to me. This is how it sounded to me: By permission of the Republic's president, the law cannot be carried out as usual. That sounds familiar. That's what we've heard, and not just once in the last few weeks, but twice. It's safe to say that this is a tiny moment of reflection. Although I have not seen that the President of the Republic issued any such license, I have to admit that I may not be grudging and reading all the Presidential decision before bedtime, but maybe you'll just start with it right now.
