ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-23-1.u1	I want to draw attention to what. The general body of Congress has concluded that this last part of the council meeting, this long convening meeting, will be the date for the Commonwealth Day. On that day in 1918, the Community Act went into effect, and Iceland became part of a rural country of independent and sovereign states. It is fitting, then, that traditional Congress work will now be effectively initiated after a long wait. Senators and senators come and go, but the Council continues to hold up the sovereignty and this is on the responsibility of all of us. I'd like to congratulate everyone and the people of the country on the day.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-23-1.u2	The election is being elected by the Generals according to Article 1. Section 3. Parliamentary affairs, and they are the only ones designated. I've received one commission, about the 9th. Smoke. s., Birgir Ármannsson. Are there any other suggestions? Other appointments have not been received. So a Birgir's Ármannsson's farm is single. Since there is only one, it is the President's intention to make the vote carried out by the vote system. If the vote does not make such comments, the vote is made in this way. The system is set to match a secret vote. The tablets on the walls will only show who took their votes but not how they voted. The same applies to the computer's own storage memory. Those who choose the Birgir Ármannsson push the yes button, but those who want to return the blank push on the button marked, don't vote. A yellow light on the middle button comes on when a vote has been paid no matter how it has been paid, no matter what each button is pressed, and just a yellow light will appear on the posters in the conference hall. [August was for Presidential elections. Syllables fell so that the Birgir of the Year's Ármannsson, the 9th. Smoke. s., received 48 votes, 11 senators did not vote.]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-23-1.u3	Hv. paritaprevir The Birgir man's Ármannsson has got 48 votes, eleven sit by, four are absent. According to this, Birgir's Ármannsson is the duly elected president of the Generals. I would especially like to wish him well-being and well-being and ask him to walk to the President's chair and take over the conference board.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-23-1.u4	Thank you very much. The President of the Age, the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, the judiciaries to me, and the generals the trust they show me by choosing me the President of the Generals. I will make every effort to live up to the confidence and work to the best of our cooperation with other members of the council to do the work assigned to us by the nation. At the same time, I expect to cooperate with the fine staff of the Generals. More than nine weeks have passed since election, and the unusual situation exists that this meeting has been held for over a week, but such circumstances have not existed since the middle of the last century. We've got some hard work to do, a case that's gonna have to be completed by the end of the year. Of course, it contains the highest financial bill and related issues. I hope for close and good cooperation with the heads of Parliaments and the heads of the political parties on the Parliamentary Organization during the short time left in the fall council. When I smell, I agree with the words of the Age President to congratulate the United States and Congress Day and welcome all members of the General Assembly of 152. In particular, I would like to wish those of the general council who are now taking their first place in the Council and are asking for their well - being. I also wish those who have chosen to serve as ministers of all good fortune, and I hope that the cooperation of the government and the Generalis will be successful.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-23-1.u5	Starting the election for six vice presidents. I have received a list of names: Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Inga Sæland, Mist Einarsdóttir Einarsdot, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, and Jódís the Skúladóttir of Shail. Since there are no more tribunals than votes, I shall declare the term as Vice President of the 1st district of Oddsja Harðardóttir Hardydóttt, 2nd Vice President Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótir, 3th vice president of Sæland Gonand, 4th Vice President of Diljá Mist Einarsdóttir Mysterdótir, 5th Vice President of Leví Gunnarsson, 6th vice president of the Jódís Skúladóttir. According to Congress, they will be the members of the Committee to Presidency for Prime ÞorbjörgSigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir with Bergethon and Bergþór Ólason. I congratulate the vice presidents on their chosen and successful career. I expect to cooperate fully with the vice presidents and the audience members on the meeting work and on other committee assignments. The first meeting of the Presidency Committee will be in the morning at 10:30 p.m., where there will be a special meeting afternoon.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-23-1.u6	The following reports have been received on the heads of Congress groups: Archduke's Group: Vice President Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Chairman of the United States, and Vice President Loveldur Ásthildur Þórsdóttir. Group member: Ingibjörg Ólöf Isaksen, chairman, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristiandóttir, vice president, and Jóhann Friðrik Friðriksson, secretary. Group of the Middle Party: Bergþór Ólason, chairman. The House of Pirath: Chairman Halldorra Mogensen, Thorhird of Ævarsdóttir, Prefect; and Gísliun, son of Ólafsson, secretary. Group of the United Nations: Helga Helgadóttir Helgaóttir, chairman, Sveinbjarnardóttir Bearddot, vice president, and Kristrún Frostadóttir daughter, secretary. The House of Independence: Óli Björn Kárason, chairman, Árnason the Arnazon, vice president; and Bordits the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, secretary. Parliamentary Group: Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, chairman, and Sigmar Guðmundsson, vice president. Group of Left Antics: Orri Páll Jóhannsson, president of the United States, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, vice president, and Bjarni Jónsson, secretary.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-23-1.u7	According to Article 14, a proposal has been made by the presidents of Congress. Parliaments on the orders of committees, as agreed by their agreement, as well as the proposals of the chairman of a body of Congress by this agreement on the order of the committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-23-1.u8	The president would like to introduce the members of the general council to sign a declaration that they have studied the rules of ethics for the Generals, approved by a council hearing of 16 March 2016. At the council's table, the interpretation of ethical rules and declarations is to confirm it. Right away. Congress officials have studied the rules, and they are asked to present a signed declaration in the Parliamentary Office that they have studied and signed the Code.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-23-1.u9	Precautions and discussions at the time 62. g. Congress will be tonight, starting at 7:30 in the afternoon. Meeting arrangements are made for the discussion. Passing will be three, six minutes, five minutes, and four minutes, which will be involved in each category, but prime minister has 12 minutes to go.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-23-1.u10	It will only be changed in the light of circumstances, thus stating that the president is now taking the seat for members of Congress, members of members of the council, and political parties as well as non - ministers. The president asks the senators to stay in their seats and not return to their new seat until the resolution of the prime minister's debate tonight. A variant must be searched from 4 mg. Section 3. Congress so that the seat of the chairmans of Parliaments and of the presidents of political parties can be considered specifically, and they will be joined by one another in the council hall. If you don't object, look at these variations approved. Then there's a deal that Steinunn Árnadóttir Ánarnadddóttir has 57 and Inga Sæland Land seats to 5 that are especially suitable for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-23-1.u11	We'll continue the delivery of our seats. The president's requests a good time to have been in the past, but when there was a confusion between the boxes, the bullets that point to the seats that were already in circulation would have to be looked for some seats. Happily, an intelligent senator was able to draw attention to this. To do all of this together correctly, we will make what was once said about the officers and members of the council, but we will have to get back to the seat of other members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-23-1.u12	Last November 18th such a letter was published: Iceland's number tells: I have determined, according to the request of the prime minister, that the Council shall meet to meet on Tuesday, November 23, 2021. As soon as I published this, all those in the General Assembly will be invited to come to Reykjavík for a day and then the General Assembly will be appointed after the service of God's people in the cathedral. One-thirty-thirty-thirty. All units, November 18th, 2021. The Guðni of Th. Jóhannesson. Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Presidential Letters for the Council to assemble on Tuesday, November 23, 2021 According to a letter I have read, I declare that the General Assembly of the Icelanders is set up. Honored generals. I bid you all welcome to the council here. A new terms have started, were chosen almost two months ago. The postambles had to be in one district, and according to our constitution, it is in the hands of the Generals to determine whether their members are legally elected. Therefore, great is the responsibility of the generals, now and immediately. The pandemic still has its look on society and its Senate work. As soon as you can, it seems to each one about the disease control. True, the only right way has not always been chosen, so it would be better to do so now, often out of a dilemma and easily be wise in the future. Then, in difficult cases, one person may accuse another of misbehavioring, not learning anything and only obeying the authorities blindly and fearfully - now or on the other hand, that the person or the person involved should believe only in conspiracy, think of his own interests, not of the whole, and make little less of an obvious threat. While pride and exaggeration can communicate freely, we have found good luck for the inhabitants of this country to stand together mostly in the face of common woes. This unity has been based on common sense, general debate, general knowledge, and general trust. In search of reason, many of us have no doubt gained from the resources of experience and history. Most of us who have enjoyed having children remember vaccinations that protect them and other people from trouble. We will also remember that if they had a varicella or a stomach disorder, it was our duty to keep them in an environment, away from school, or from day - care. Freedom to infect others is twisted. Learning can also be derived from long - term experiences. In 1846, a year after the first release of the General Assembly, measles epidemics raged across the country. The number of Icelanders dropped by 2 percent and can be calculated in the mind as to what they were talking about today. It is not like anything in history, the revolution of the last human age in the fields of medicine and medicine, the revolution of biology and equipment. This improvement was based on criticism, open - mindedness, and search for knowledge, a constant change. If we still obeyed the advice of the finest experts in the past centuries, we would try to cure people by taking blood, even if the only problem was worse. In the ongoing epidemic, it is important to take into account what is learned and how they affect society. Thus, true science and science are a source of encouragement to all. Then we know the wisdom of Jónas, Hallgrímsson of Hallgímur, to the French Mr. Paul Gaimards. He wrote the exhortation a few years before the restoration of the Generals. Of course, the good poet lamented the decay of Þingalva. His words are not so familiar but may also live: Behold, there is a gathering of tents. The quiet and sad lava cold - Didn't you like Iceland then? the terror of an entire body? The horrors of the General's Hospital were torn away. Three consecutive times in the fall, we have joined the Senate election. The current ideal period can take place in late September after four years. The benefits and failings of having a vote day in the fall and not in the spring as has been used, especially how it affects the work of the Council, the center of political power. Nice senators. There are many more things burning in the country than the Constitution's reviews. Finally, though, I allow myself to mention that at less than a year ago, I expressed the hope that there would be some balanced suggestions for changing the constitution to the material deportation and the outcome of a discussion in this hall. It didn't. Instead, the fate of the Constitution bill was attacked in some committee room on the east side of the East. Hopefully, during this ideal period there will be better progress and will be more effective improvements in the Iceland Constitution, as it has been previously changed in the stream of time. These include environmental, resource, and Icelandic languages, as well as changes in the section of the Constitution. The work here for the next few days also suggests that there can be more information on these topics. On the Internet you can read the definition of ignorance to repeat the same procedure, but you can expect a different result and better. This is often quoted as Albert Einstein, apparently from loose air, yet another testimony to the fact that all things are not to be believed in in. I trust much more than the words of Svava, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, in Gunnunda, that, between new and old, everything is unscathed. The future is to mold it. I wish the members of the Parliament and the members of the Generals success in their work and in their country's well-being. I ask a council to rise from their seats and remember the country. [[The senators rose up from their seats and prime minister, the daughter of Katrin, the daughter of Jacob, and said, Our whole president and earth. Iceland lives, and the senators took the word with a four-fold hurrah shout.]] According to Article 1. Congress must now be held by the senator who is the longest permanent member of the council for the administration of meetings until the election of the President of the Generalis. I'll wait. 5th a.m. We're out of here. "The Þorgerður of Katrín, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, to walk to the throne of the President. "The singing women of Domus vox moved Stop crying round." Icelandic folk song Jónas the son of Hallgrímsson.]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-23-1.u13	I'm offering everybody what? Allied council members elected in the September 25th, 2021, campaign elections were welcome to work at the General Assembly. The General Assembly is the firmament of democracy. Only by their work can they play a vital role in governing. Therefore, there is reason to celebrate the sentence of the General Assembly today after a long hold. I would like to give in view of the hope that the work of this newly formed assembly will be a land and our nation's welfare. On behalf of the Generals, I greet the staff of the Generals and expect that we can cooperate with them as always.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-23-1.u14	The tragic news came on July 10th, during the summer, that the night before, on July 9, in Akureyri, Egilsdóttir Eglílddóttir, general of the House of Congress, had died. This was unexpected, although we generals and many others had followed her heroic struggle since early 2018, with cancer that killed her well before her age. Þórunn on a health permit most of the year since 2018, by the end of Congress last spring, she arrived at the Senate Hall and greeted members of the council, but her business at the head office was giving a call on the behalf of the senators at the annual meeting of the female leaders. It is one of the amazing coincidences of life that Aldulis's sentence now appears on the birthday of Þórunn, the Egilsdóttir of Eglís, who was born in Reykjavík on November 23, 1964, to be 57 today. Þórunn's parents are Egill Ásgrímsson's burst and Sigríður's Lúthersdóttir is a housewife. Þórunn completed a student's test from the University of Versailles of Iceland, 1984 and B.Ed., a test from the School of Teachers at 1999. When after a student test, Þórunn moved east onto a farm, got acquainted with his husband, and stood with him for sheep in the flocks of Hawkes in the Western Year valley from 1986. In recent years, she was an instructor at the rural elementary school and a teacher there in 1999,228, a school manager. At that time, she became an assignment manager for the Eastern Knowledge Network so that it was elected at the General Assembly. Along with fasting work and farming, Þórunn soon became a leading woman in the provinces and in the carers of the arms, sitting in the rural regime in 20103/4/2014, with a pointy view of 20103/42013, previously serving as the Social Services Committee for Parcheepes. Þórunn was in the management of the Eastern Community, of its Council of Government, and of its 2010 central government. In addition, it was called for to a variety of administrative functions in the Icelandic rural, agricultural, and transport organizations. Þórunn was elected General Assembly member of the 2013 Northeast Precinct and was re-elected in 2016 and 2017. In the General Assembly, Þórunn was already given attention to a gentlemanlike attitude and a reasonable presentation. Yet, she was stuck in the line of duty for her party and had a clear view of what matters and what is not. By itself, Þórunn was elected to positions of responsibility within the Generals, and she was the vice president almost continuously since 2015. From the election day at the end of October 2016 until the beginning of December, it was the first president of the World Congress. She was chairman of the 2015 High Priest's Assembly and again from 2016 during her leave. She served in committees in many language fields, and she was always a fine team member. During his first term, 2013◯2016, Þórunn was president of the National Council of Iceland and was vice president of the Western Council of 2017. She was sitting at nine legislatures. For example, the Egilsdóttur of Þórunn was about a number of remarkable and memorable women who treated themselves with dignity, quietness of manner, reputation, and the use of words. All thought it was good to work with Þórunn, who was stable and calm. She was an extremely zealous, selfless woman who had a responsibility to do all her work at the General Assembly. The death of the entire councilman, however, involves something deeper than that of a well - known variety of Þórunn's qualities, struggles, courage, and her optimism. A general misses a friend instead.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-23-1.u15	September 10th. died at the National Hospital of Peace, John Sigurdsson, former minister and head of the parish after a long illness. Jón Sigurðsson was born in Kollafjordur, on August 23, 1946. His parents were a Unnur Kolbeinsdóttir of Sir Francis and Sigurður E. Ólason, the Supreme Court attorney. Jón completed a student's test at the University of Education in Reykjavík, B.A., and a U.S. National University of Iceland in 1969, and a doctor's test in education and a MBA test from U.S. high school. Jón's son Sigurðsson's career was unusually varied. He was a lecturer in Icelandic at a university in Sweden, the office director of the Languages and Culture, the head of Education, the editor of Time, the school principal of the Group Work School, and later the head of the University of Cooperation, the head of the Work Association, the bank manager, a teacher at the University of Reykjavík, and still not entirely understood. At the same time, Jón was chairman, director, or adviser of many associates, partners, and institutions of finance and commerce, health care, and education. Jón has numerous books, essays, and articles in magazines. When Halldór Ásgrímsson, president of the advance party, disappeared from the political scene, Jón the son of Sigurðsson was appointed government, and later was elected president of the forward party. He also became one of the two presidents of the government. At the 2007 General election, Jón did not succeed, and he went to another field of activity. So he served only one assembly after his office as minister. Jón Sigurðsson, a man with a large variety of experience when he came to work at the General Assembly, was kind and reasonable in dealing with others in politics, pure and simple, well - meaning, and always happy. He was a master speaker and was well - spoken. Then the Council enjoyed Jón's powers only a short time but wherever he was concerned with him in Icelandic commercial and cultural life. I pray to the assembly to remember Þórunn Egilsdóttir of the Generalist and Jón the son of Sigurðsson, former minister, by coming out of his seats. - [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-23-1.u16	The President has received a letter dated October 18, 2021, as follows: Since October 8 of our last October, I have been joined by the Independence Party. The letter's signing anyway. 9th. South, Birgir Þórarinsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-23-1.u17	Borist has a letter from what? 3.m. That's the north side. "Bjarken Bjarkey, Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, "that she will be absent on the next day in public affairs. Today, then, at Council II, a deputy on the left - side list of green bids in the North East-eastern District, Kári Gautason. 1 strategist on a list has been calling incursion. Kári has not taken his place before in the Council, but the signing of his word is postponed. A letter has been received from what? 7. That's the north side. " Sigmundur Davíð, son of Gunnuga, " said Gunnlaugsson, "that he will be absent at the next time in public affairs. So today, at Council 1, a deputy of the Central Party Arts of the North-east District, Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir. She has previously taken her place at the General Assembly and is welcome to serve at the General Assembly. A letter has also been received from the chairman of Porta's party that Thordldur Sunna Ævarsdóttir, 7th. We're out of here. "Be absent at the next time in public affairs. So today, at Arms II, a deputy of Pirata, Southwestern District, Indriði Ingi Stefánsson. Ingi hasn't sat before at the General Assembly, but the signing of her word is postponed. Finally, a letter was received by the vice president of the House of Congress on the matter. 8th yrs Smoke. So, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, will be absent at the next time in public affairs. Therefore, it is requested that María Rut, the Kristinsdóttir of Kristins, be seated at the General Assembly, 2nd, on the theme list of reveries in the district. 1 strategist on a list of the districts has announced ahead of time. María Rut has not taken her place before in the Council, but her signing is postponed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-23-1.u18	Borist has a list of the names: Birgir Ármannsson's son, Björn Leví's Gunnarsson, Mist Einarsdóttir Myst Mystót, Inga Sæland, Jóhann Friðrik Friðriksson, Línika Sævarsdóttir Anna, Sagasdótir Svavarsdóttir, Vilhjálmur Árnason, Þórunn Sveinbjarnardóttir. Since there are no other nominees than votes, I shall declare the former members of the General Assembly of the Court on the Advisory Committee. The committee will assemble for a meeting after the completion of this ceremony.
