ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u1	Mr. President. It's a pleasure to be happy when Iceland's interests are properly met and to do them well and, of course, be happy if we are reaching a good vacation deal with one of our most important business countries. However, this must be classified as being a major foreign case, and it is, according to Article 24. Conventional legislation to submit to a foreign matter committee. Hence, it is rather odd to read about such agreements and their signatures and even more detailed expressions in the news before a foreign - language committee has reviewed the matter. Of course, now I know that individuals are mixed up when they face complex challenges and know that they are at the highest level. The minister of state is about to enter the Independence Party's Qualification Committee tomorrow, but it is natural to force a reelection into a Senate hall rather than try to promote the respect of the Generals, as was due in the Treaty.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u2	Although there was a growing tolerance for human debates, the President's recommendation is that men keep holding to something that pertains to the conference. The political party's surrogacy in the community is hardly a subject of discussion about the President's conference board. That's the president's opinion, and it can't be changed. Hv. A senator gets back the word.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u3	Mr. President. This has to do with the council and has to do with the activity at a meeting. The foreign - language committee to whom the call was made after the highest level. A foreign minister had already talked to the press about major foreign affairs, a free trade agreement with another state, one of our major cooperation countries, when it comes to business and cultural relations. But I'd like to remind myself of that, too, as well. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson said before, that the Foreign Affairs Committee shall, according to Article 24. Congress, be the Ministry of State on Major Foreign Affairs, for the government will always be subject to such a case, not to the load, nor to the Mogga the day before the highest-class re-election. Secretary of state. Historyly speaking, what's happened? This important role is being held by the Foreign Affairs Committee, and it is time for the Council to gain the respect they deserve, and for the State Department, but not to use the power in this way and to associate with it as it was seen here this morning.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u4	The president agrees that the agreement between the government and the Foreign Affairs Committee is very important. It now wants so much fun that the next item on the program, actually the first item on the program, is confirmed, probable, of the change in the political order that stands out in order to be informed into the discussion that is started here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u5	A respectable president. I came up here because of the words of a respected president, found in this terms of term, there is an unpleasant tendency to put in with members of the council when they discuss what is in their heart and matters that are appropriate to mention in this pontu, in this case in accordance with the Government's counsel to the Council and the role of the General of Congress in keeping with the authorities and at least being informed about what is going on. I think there's every reason to come here to a conference board like that. 5th a.m. That's the north side. " Logi Einar Einarsson, did and came up mainly to protest what a respected president once said. But then there was another speech that I heard as far as I could say was the perfect contradiction to the first, and I welcome that speech at least, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u6	Mr. President. I'm taking these Presidents' criticals to me. However, I would have found it more challenging if he had been more milder when he was putting up with me because he had drawn this conclusion and the context between the above resolutions and the reelections than had become more cruel and first fought when he was going to stand up for the members of that body in his battle for the ministers to do what they should do. All I ask is by Mr. President, that he will accompany us members of the council and see to it and put in the office of Ministers when they obviously do not follow their rules. Certainly, Mr. President, we're about to accept a new council law, and that's good. But let us make sure that they are followed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u7	A respectable president. I don't know how far a man can go in talking material under this team, but I would like to say that it is my will, of course, to sit down with a bang. A foreign - business committee discussing these matters that have been discussed many times in the committee, and it has been my goal to have a problem. Foreign Affairs Commission informed of the course of events. At times, however, whether we like it or not, the issue is fast - moving, and it is difficult to inform us about things that humans do not know what will happen. [[Up front.]] On the other hand, I can say that the result is exactly in line with what was suggested, so it won't come out of nowhere. The Foreign Affairs Committee is surprised when we review what I hope will be done the very first.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u8	Mr. President. I'm gonna take advantage of the trip to apologize for the fact that I haven't been in the conference board every day, and I'm curious about some reports, as I promised. [[Up front.]] This is my chance to call for a report asked in mid - December for the power of the 20 largest industrial industry. Then I've done it and I've fulfilled my promise, at least That, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u9	President is an ally. A senator in need of this report.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u10	A respectable president. I want, for the reason that we've been up here complaining about the lack of communication. A foreign press committee, for the pleasant report of a recent vacation agreement between Iceland and Britain, stated this, because at the beginning of a council meeting, I felt that it was based on misunderstandings, that a meeting was announced. A foreign relations committee was informed about the construction of this vacation agreement before news of it appeared in the press as far as I can see from the media coverage. I have continued to proclaim the committee to a meeting and have invited many meeting sessions today, even asking for a meeting release to get a presentation on this contract. But I have received answers from the government's opposition that she is not interested in this presentation today, so the presentation is waiting for a better time next week.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u11	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister of State for coming up here and declaring his will to meet with what. State Department. Sadly, though, this is not the first time for members of Congress. State Department complains of lack of consultation. But I'm glad to hear it's the best thing you want. Minister to do so. Regarding the president of the State Department of State, about the fact that a vacation agreement has been informed, it may be appropriate to make a decision that it is not the same as presenting and agreeing with the court. The Foreign Affairs Committee on the contents of a free trade deal with Britain, which is our main concern, and I'll make it up, treaties and alliances when it comes to business and other relationships. I'd like to make it right for what? paritaprevir Sigríður Á. Andersen, it's not the same thing as running a meeting and informing of the construction of a vacation contract at the highest level. The minister of foreign affairs had already included the media and presented the contents, but it did not reveal the point. State Department. [[The president calls.]] It's not the same, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u12	Mr. President. First, I wanted to say that I think that few of the highest. Foreign ministers have had as much consultation with the Foreign Affairs Committee as they have now. [[Top of it: not right.]] I've been watching this for a long time, and even though I don't have a foreign business, I'm looking at what happens there. All I've seen was that it was a lot of consultation and to the top. The minister of foreign affairs at the former stage presented to the State Department what was going on on on Bgret and had a comprehensive discussion with her over this period of time because this has taken a long time. I think it matters in this relationship. I think that if we look at how these things have developed, then it must primarily be a reason for us to be happy that it seems there is getting a good deal and a good deal for us. I think, like the highest. A minister has made it clear that they are in full agreement with what has been proposed on the part of this government in consultation with the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u13	Mr. President. I have seen a foreign - language committee gradually fall into quality during this terms. I'm not actually a member of the Committee anymore, but I don't know how many times I thought in the last records when I was there that when you miss the top, you'd get crazy. Secretary of Aslaugal Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir from the Chairman of the United States. There's a sign. But to say, "If it's the right thing to do." paritaprevir The Birgir son of an Ármannsson at the present time is the highest. I cannot imagine how little that has been before. It has to be serious, and for many decades, as far as I can go, it has been necessary to increase the arrival of the Parliament to foreign affairs at all levels. It is shameful to think that there is a time and a time when a foreign government committee simply does not know simple things going on.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u14	Mr. President. I have made a special note that the Ministers do not get more specific rules on when they are due answers to Congress inquiry, and yet there is good reason to sharpen it. Nevertheless, I consider the changes made in the management and monitoring committee, which I would like to commend for the job, to improve. We will support this case, but I am stressing that there will be continued work to put it in such a way that it cannot be avoided by ministers giving answers to members of the Parliament within a legal period, or they will be worse.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u15	President. I agree with the last speaker. These factors are addressed in the Committee's opinion that in the implementation of the Management Board, these factors are addressed and at the same time fit and imposed on the right of members of Congress to obtain this information, which is the natural basis for our surveillance. Otherwise, I would really like to thank you for your cooperation and cooperation with the Committee. I'd like to thank a Senate committee for the case and the president of the council, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, especially, and all of us, for bringing this to a conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u16	A respectable president. I've come up, in effect, to thank you for the effort made to make changes in this matter that everyone could take advantage of their special savings. Sadly, that was too complicated because more laws had to be changed. I really hope that in such cases, when no one is left out, individuals can take advantage of the tax deduction of special property savings. It is not fair if someone wants to take advantage of this but cannot because of technical difficulties. We're supposed to make sure that everyone can take advantage of this. That's not fair.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u17	A respectable president. I wanted to come here and mention my concern for the final talk in the series on the articles in it. It discusses the penalties of human tolerance. I'm concerned that the bill gives a better picture, but the fact is, how to meet the fact that, of course, people should not be punished for human tolerance when they engage in conduct that is illegal, say drugs, or something like that. From what I've read in the media, and what I know about it, it still seems to me to be a problem, and in view of the 74th grade. a general penal law and a record of 146. the treatment of criminal cases. This does not seem to exactly match the song text or what is described in a report, as far as you can see, and I hope there will be a better look at it. [[The president calls.]] To say that it has no effect on the quality of this bill itself, and of course I support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u18	A respectable president. I'll support this bill and accept it, end a good thing, but it could have been so much better. There are several things that the speaker pointed to that are overlooked in this committee party. It just goes through the tips, and then there are other things that are spoken of somewhere in the future, possibly according to some interpretation, can fix it. For example, I feel that foreign labor could have been far better handled, or just workforce in Iceland in general, when it comes to working as a worker. The song itself does not make it clear that working in an unacceptable situation is clearly also something that could fall under a work ethic. We could have been with a much clearer and better definition that it is not only slavery or something like it but also things in which it is simply very clear that the person does not have full rights and is being abused in other ways. It could have been the law, and I don't really understand why. I just hope that next time we'll do better and be even more responsible for human endurance.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u19	V.E.G. President. I'm here to report our votes, but we in the Central Party can't support this case now because of a few factors and will sit by. In particular, I would like to point to the cost of this bill, but I was not taken into account the comments of the Children's Protection Agency, which identified the costs of new projects as being highly underestimated. There is something else, but it was evident from the very beginning that the matter was not ready and that it was not at all ready for the assessment, since it has already been called into the committee. Further problems can be found in the minority of the committee that we support.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u20	Mr. President. This is a very important case for successful children. This entire election work has been highly consulted throughout the Senate Committee, by the Ministry, by a number of service partners around the country, by rural groups, by children, by young people, and by an extraordinary number of others. That is why it is a little sad to see how the matter is eventually snatched out of its mouth. The welfare committee on the final meters without taking into account the most important observations made by Peritoneanists and Children's Health Services, which are the most important institutions involved in this category. Happily, the matter has been called in between the 2nd and 3rd. and I hope it changes to the Committee before the 3rd. [[The president calls.]] Otherwise, it is also necessary to make adjustments with the Committee's list of my items, which are carefully explained, and I encourage senators to vote on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u21	President. This is certainly a matter I would have wanted to support now in votes after 2nd. but me and the council will sit with you. This is mainly due to the resolution of the case on a committee, i.e. how it was taken out. We don't have a conversation. We don't have guests. This now enters a committee between the 2nd and 3rd. Since we're going to have guests, and hopefully we'll be able to move on from sitting by to agree on the matter and on green and supporting this important, big, and otherwise very cool. They just need to meet the comments of an important speaker, such as Peronist, Child Welfare, and others, and we need to have a better discussion on this subject. Hopefully, in the future, we stopped tearing matters out of committees without having a good conversation and taking steps to try to achieve solidarity in matters, especially matters that should be fully agreed on and should be included. There should be agreement on this and some kind of mess that it isn't.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u22	Mr. President. At the same time, we support this matter and the purpose ahead. We are happy with the work that took place right up to the finish line. I'm coming up here to explain that we're going to go to the yellow with the payment today because it's been called into a committee. The smaller part wishes to be taken into account, i.e. There's a story about personal protection and the Children's Institute for Children's Health. These are not big things, but they are important, especially that we do not get caught up in the crisis soon, if that happens to be the case. We are now sitting by, confident that this will be taken into account between the 2nd and the 3rd. Because we really support the situation. But it's yellow now.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u23	A respectable president. Unfortunately, this matter was taken out of the board without everybody's consent, and it was very boring because it's a good case, and I want to be on this. But it has been said that this case will be reinstated, and I'm going to believe and trust that this case will be pulled back. Because of that faith and trust, I'm going to say yes to this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u24	Mr. President. These three issues, of integrating services to children, welfare services, the Children's Protection Agency and the Health Organization, are products of a tremendous amount of work, especially in the community, which many have visited. Likely, few cases have been handled in a better community than just those. A group of members of the council came to the matter at all levels, meant well, but listened primarily to the voices that were out in the community. Last members of the case met the committee on March 3, three months ago. The matter has been covered in detail and in good practice. A welfare committee, especially by the manager, huh? paritaprevir The Halla of the Signý Kristjánsdóttir, and I strongly encourage the members of the council to support this fine matter. [[The president calls.]] The support does not change the integrity that is behind the greater part of the matter as to the reinstatement of the committee between 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u25	A respectable president. This case was recommended on November 30. They've had an hour talk on a welfare committee. Visitors finished March 2nd. I don't recognize any requests for visitors there from March 2 until the case was resolved. There was no disagreement, but if anyone wants to play the play that there's a disagreement on the subject, it'll be played here, but it won't be ignored. I hope that's not going to be a reimbursement of that play. I do not take responsibility for those members of Congress who cannot read financial programs for their benefit.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u26	President. I'm kind of a little wide. I don't know how to deal with this, but I'll try. I know whySigný Kristjánsdóttir Not one thing but a good thing to do, and most of the cooperation has been very good on the committee. I don't know what she means by saying that this has not been resolved. I don't understand how it is possible to interpret the loud protests of the members of the Committee, and please don't take the case out, we can, please, finish this case, to have some agreement on it. I care about this, I've been on this Senate Committee for a long time, and all I want is to settle this matter. How can it be interpreted as taking the matter out of a committee in spite of such requests as something other than putting it out in a conflict? I don't understand. Was a what? A pilot asleep?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u27	Mr. President. Each play is now seen. I'm not sure that Mrs. Jón Viðar Jónsson would give them a series of stars that were conducted here at the head of this case. The matter was taken out of the commission in a baloney dispute despite a clear wish. The chairman of the committee that it might be discussed at the meeting of the committee the following morning and then finished. There would be room. It was Tuesday last week. The case was in 2nd. yesterday. There was no time pressure that would not allow us to have one additional committee meeting to discuss the matter. It was the first time the members of the committee were allowed to discuss this matter, for the first time. Although the visitors finished in March, these were so extensive that they were on the committee stage for three months. [[The president calls.]] We all know that there's deception, Mr President, when it's acted as if there's been enough discussion. [[The president calls.]] This was the first time these committees had the privilege of speaking with each other here. [[The president calls.]] We're talking about important comments from Percontinent and Child Welfare, which simply say there is a danger of an accident if we do not make certain changes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u28	A respectable president. I'm not putting anything into the President's conference board on this case, but Jón Viðar would call this my play in the end, I'm afraid. But the discussions that have been discussed in the committee have been great and good. An authority has never denied discussion, and there is an e - mail communication about it where I wished for this matter to be discussed even though the committee's opinion had not arrived, it's only very good. I hope this good thing, which so many people have come to for so long and have had so much discussion, will be taken into account in harmony. And then the matter had been called in between the 2nd and 3rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u29	Mr. President. This suggests a change that came from Peritoneal Protection on the possible access to a paediatric and family database, their health, their record of criminality, drug abuse, etc. In the bill as it is now, any service employee may have access to all information inside this common database, whether the provider is health care, elementary school, nursery, sports society vacations, or anyone else. It was suggested that it be limited, and here we are suggesting that it is only the one who provides this fundamental service, i.e. what is called the Children's Protection Committee, but so is the contact with the children who are supposed to ensure this integration, so that not all people have more information about children and families. In this matter, we suggest and agree with the proposals of the Perone Protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u30	Mr. President. This is a slight change, so in exceptional circumstances, when the child's special and personal relationship and/or parents are involved or have been talking to a child's contact in school, the child or parent may request a new contact for the child. A child's contact, for those who do not know the matter, is the person who is to be kept out of the child from school until he is finished. In some cases, especially in small communities, you may have a relationship, or you may have been in such a way between your child and your family, that it is unfortunate for your contact to be in all personal matters between your child and your family. Here we are making it possible to request that someone else be a contact but this particular person. We're talking about possible family ties, former boyfriends or other parent's boyfriends or other personal relationships, that you can request in absolute exceptional circumstances.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u31	Mr. President. This big issue is about sensitive personal information about children and their families, as we have seen many times here today. In this modification form, we are setting up an obligation to register, share and other personal information is permitted only in a common information system or with a database handled by a children's and family room. I made such a change in another bill, which will likely be decommissioned next week in the Children's Protection Act, and the majority have been willing to accept a similar change. But for some reason it didn't get part of the Committee on the matter here. I think it's simply because there was no allowed discussion on the subject. Here we're talking about this database, not using all kinds of calcium and paper and all kinds of computer systems throughout the system, but fitting all of this in a validated database because it's so delicate.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u32	Mr. President. Here we are talking about what I talked about earlier, about the vote, i.e. to postpone the validation of this case just for a few months until this database is complete. That's what matters. It was a key point, a review of both the Federal Protection Agency and the Children's Protection Agency that are working on this case from A to Z. Both of these institutions said: postponing the case, the execution of a few months will not make any difference but will reduce the risk of some failure. We've seen what happens when databases aren't ready when things get started. We can name the cervical screening case, which is somehow in an empty mess for months after some process begins. In this matter, these two key institutions are to pray: Wait for the execution. [[The president calls.]] The induction process is under way. Everything's on the move. [[The president calls.]] We're just talking about improving the situation and being safer when things get done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u33	V.E.G. President. It's the same with this case. We members of the Central Party will also sit next to each other. Like the case we had earlier, it will be called in to a committee. Especially with this case, it's as if you're starting backwards. With President's permission, I'm going to grab here in brief a review of Akureyri City: ▪ Oh, my God. Section 5. The bill is a Children's and Family Office authorised to operate databases and digital solutions for the Agency's projects. It is important that we build and operate such databases to avoid creating burdensome projects on the rural community. This is one of the things that I specifically extract from many comments we have received about all these matters, and these comments are important.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u34	A respectable president. In fact, the same is true of this subject and the next and of the integration issues we were voting for right in this case. We'll sit by and see that we're about to get the case back on a committee between the 2nd and 3rd. We hope that discussion at that stage will move us to green, i.e. that you will be able to meet comments that we considered important, e.g. ... thattheparadiseis still in this case. Also came comments from the Children's Institute on Funding and Status, which are very important for us to consider and to discuss whether we can meet.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u35	V.E.G. President. Here's the third item in the box we've been discussing on a committee. We in the Middle East will be here on this case for the same reason I've decided before. The whole project is intertwined, and it can truly be said that they are in no way ready. This is sad in view of the great amount of work that took place before we were brought into the committee and all the reasons to allow the committee to discuss the matter so that we can be at peace with the outcome.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u36	V.E.G. President. This case is fine, I'll tell you. However, I wrote under the opinion of more in advance, which is most concerned with the financing of the bill. We see this in a review from the European Union of rural society that points to and strongly emphasizes the need for funding and that this may have a negative impact on those who use the ministry. In addition, it appears that again we should leave 18 - year - old disabled children whom we could easily have met, at least we would have established some kind of plan on meeting them. But I'd like to say that we support this bill because there's a step in the right direction, but it might have done a little better.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u37	Mr. President. While supporting this issue, we members of the United States, would like to agree on the comments of a number of people who sent both in consultation and to the Committee that it would be shocking to say that this institution had not yet expanded the area of activity for disabled persons of 18◯24 years of age. This has been in the discussion of the administrative system at least from 2014, which maintains this state. Young disabled people who are taking steps toward their own existence do not have legal access to the Agency's services, especially in the field of counseling. They are young disabled people. It is also inevitable, in the opinion of the European Union, to emphasize strongly that governments should ensure the financial resources required by its legal projects. Resentment of funds for service has a major negative impact, especially on those who need this service. [[The president calls.]] The petition for the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter must be stopped.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u38	Mr. President. I'd like to draw back to the fact that when it comes to this institution, an analysis and counseling center, there are 340 children on a waiting list and waiting list has grown on the watch of this government. The waiting period may last up to two years. In total, 900 children go to BUGL annually. There are 150 children on wait list for a new service on BUGL. The waiting period may be up to eight months. Third Children's Institute for Development and Behavior. There are 600 children on a waiting list, and the waiting period may be up to 18 months. A recent report published by a surgeon showed that 9% of young people have attempted suicide. This means that in 22 school kids, two students have attempted suicide. Mr. President. The problem is enormous, and here we are all convinced that we need to do better. While children are being put on a waiting list, something is wrong. I suggest we stop arguing while it's a mess. Let your children take first place, especially children with developmental abnormalities, disorders, and so forth. [[The president calls.]] We must be able to remove once and for all these children's waiting - list civilizations.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u39	A respectable president. I'd like to take part under the recommendation of what's happened. The senators of Helga Helgadóttir and Ágúst, the Ólafur of Ágústsson, in regard to the waiting list and the ratings. In effect, we agree with this in the Committee's opinion, encouraging the Ministry to consider these matters and how to clear them up. This bill is linked to the integrating early projections and will reduce the number of waiting lists when it starts to work. That is why it is so important that we agree on these matters, for we can meet the waiting list and reduce the number of them. I agree, they have to disappear.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u40	A respectable president. One waiting child is too much for one child. Let's hope we're now starting a system that's going to work on the list. Hopefully, we're creating a system that makes it, and quickly, that no child has to wait. I'm afraid it will take us a long time, and I understand that it will not be accepted into these new institutions, and it seems financed. But there is another concern too. That's a man's problem. He's coming up, and that's why a lot of things have to be solved, but I really hope we're on the right track right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u41	A respectable president. I'm here to recommend more of a committee party than anything else. The Economic and Business Committee. This is a bill to legalize various tax laws and expenditures (new creation, profit, head tax committees, etc.).Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: %s The bill suggests changes to various tax and tax laws, including costs. to strengthen and strengthen the tax environment of innovation companies, individuals and other legislation. Then there are some adjustments and adjustments in tax laws. We're gonna do what we're gonna do. The Economic and Business Committee has contacted our representatives from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, KPMG and Skattti. There were also reviews from KPMG and Skatti. The committee also received a memo from the Ministry of Economics and Economics. We'll make a little bit of a change to the bill as it was anticipated. I'm going to try to review them without reading everything considered, but the changes include: to taxation and purchase of stocks, which, in turn, is 1. In 1st. The bill is suggested at level 9. Law on income taxes, No. 90/2003, should be enlarged so that the executives of innovation companies who buy stocks according to the local financial rights are granted tax reimbursement until the stocks are sold. The same rule applies according to Article 9. The tax-management bill for the purchase of stocks in accordance with the premium that you've acquired because of your working for another person. KPMG reviews the view that it is reasonable to consider the taxation of the remuneration of the income according to Article 9. has to do with the possession of things regardless of how the translocation is to be done, such as the gift, the divorce of a married couple's financial partner, or inherited. Therefore, it should be a reason to consider whether the possession of items is in a different way than the sale should lead to taxation of delayed purchases. The majority agree with these views and agree with the Ministry to change the taxation rate according to Article 9. the management of income taxes in the relevant stock exchange, regardless of how the ownership should be done. About 2. or exchange of shares says: In the second part of the matter, Article 2. is suggested for the sale of non-employees who form stock exchanges in another partner, private partner or partner enterprise according to Article 1. the management of income taxes is not considered taxable to be until the stocks are sold. The bill's report shows that the purpose of the provision is included. to facilitate innovation to reorganise their holding due to the entrance of investors. In agreement with the Ministry, a greater proportion of the items are proposed to be changed to meet only young companies, i.e. Rural companies that are starting their operation A respectable president. There was much question as to how to define it, but using the term sceptre company, we were suggesting that it refer to a society that falls to Article 3. No. No. No. 152/2009, is within the limit of number 2 number 3.mg. 1st Number B joints 1.mg. 30. g. a law on income taxes, has spent more than 10% of their resources in established research and development activities, and is founded for that purpose. The secretary will be charged with the details of the procedure in the Regulation. In addition, in consultation with the Ministry, the greater part suggests that, instead of postponing the taxation profits generated during the switch, the exchanges did not result in taxable income for the one who gave stock in a sceptre company. Instead, the prices of the stocks that were purchased by the exchange are determined as well as the prices of the stocks he donated. This change is primarily aimed at simplifying the implementation and ensuring the implementation of other regulations on income taxes. A respectable president. I don't know if many people understood what I was reading right now, but maybe it's a little complicated. But to try to say this in human terms, we're with these changes trying to make it easier for companies, we're looking especially for innovation companies, to finance themselves. It is often that companies combine in this process, this wand process, and this is a question of how they work together, i.e. taxation on the fact that a person is accepting stocks in another, perhaps adding stock to another partner, and we know that in this process, there are often a variety of unitys. The Ministry's will and the will of the Committee were to make this simple and easy for innovation companies to grow and thrive. Still, we wondered a considerable deal about these points and suggested that we should not be necessarily cut out to a sceptre company, trying to define a innovation, or something like that. In fact, the ones listed here took a good look at the suggestions. Then there was a concern that there could possibly be some kind of tax march. That is not what we want at all. The results that are written here are the cooperation of the IRS and the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs and our finest Committee writer to control our will. Nevertheless, we have received indications, after giving this committee opinion, that this route may be too narrow and too limited to too few companies. Therefore, we request that this matter be brought back into the discussions committee so that we can listen to their comments and see if we can meet them. Then, a respectable president, I'm going to continue with other teams in this committee list of tax returns. As previously said, some other issues are being addressed in this bill, but these two articles are more likely to fit in with the coming of the Son of man. A financial and economic memo to the Committee, dated May 10, 2021, suggests that temporary release of the tax from obligation to contribute stress files, under legal requirements for temporary LXVI legislation on income taxes, will be extended and value in 2021 due to receipts of the year 2020. In addition, the Ministry suggests that tax reforms for the year 2018, 2018, and 2020 should be submitted no later than 31 May 2022. The premise for the temporary exception of the tax tax returns were, on the legal basis of the release, that due to a pandemic of crown virus it would be undesirable to recommend the obligation to pay the stress files because of the number of people making a trip to the tax office each year. So, there was a kind of Covid protection operation. The majority do not consider it a reason to insist on the need to extend an extension of the release, but they understand that circumstances may change with shame in advance. Instead of the unscrupulous fall of duty, the more part is suggested to allow the head of the tax to postpone the contributions with the approval of the Minister. It is required for postponement to be required because of the circumstances that result from the pandemic crown virus. Let us just hope that this will not be necessary at all. Then there are changes in accordance with a memo received by the Ministry. You can provide a memo dated on May 10 with some adjustments to the bill that most of it has passed and makes its own. It's 3rd. 49. g. the re-election of revenue taxes will be made to make it clear that financial contributions, which should be paid in terms of interest but that meet the requirements at the same time that are made in addition to financial value factor 1 according to Article 84. b Act on financial enterprises, is considered to be a reimbursement of 1 mg. 1st over 31. It is then requested that the salary and the remuneration of the tax economist be paid by the regulations of Article 39. and 47th pars. Relations on the Rights and Duty of the State, No. 70/1996. Based on this issue's text, the Ministry's memo on the explanation of the change is presented in the form of a memo on the council site. Then we have a proposal here regarding a test for acceptance of books. By the Law on Change of Various Laws to Simplifying Orders, No. 27/2021, this change in accounting law, No. 145/1994, to 43. gr. The law, which required the acceptance of books, fell away. The law added a provision that required that those who had completed the first part of a test to accept books by April 1, 2021 should have the option of completing all testing parts by April 1, 2024. The committee has learned that this law includes excessive restrictions on the right to complete a test, in which the court is conditioned with those who had completed the first test section for April 1, 2021. In consultation with the Directorate-Environment Office, a greater proportion contributes to the change that those whom it chooses should be able to complete all the testing parts for the recognition of books by April 1st, 2024. In fact, it is a law that the committee wanted to add to the payment of this bill between discussions, but it ended up fixing it here. Other changes that the greater part suggests are technical and not intended to have material influence. According to the above, the majority suggest that the bill be approved by the adjustment made in a special Senate document. Jón Valdimarsson was absent from the case, but literature is regarded as a 4 mg source. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Harðardóttir G. Hardydirdótttir and Valdimarsson Steindordsson are writing under the committee's opinion on this subject in advance that they intend to make an account of during a conference. Hermies, Níelsson's son, were absent from the case. Under this heading, write why. Hjálmar Bogi's Kárason, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, for a warning, for the daughter of Bryndís the daughter of Haraldsdóttir, for Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, for Helmmah's Hafliðason, and for a time by reason of Jón Steindór Valdimarsson the son of Valmur, and for Sigmundur, Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson. A respectable president. I hope I have managed to make it as clearly as possible what this case is going on. As I said before, we wish that the case should return to the committee, and it is particularly possible to exchange the stocks and definitions of what sort of business could use the arrangement presented here. The bill is the result of the government's innovation policy for Iceland, which marked a vision for the year 2030. The policy aims that by 2030 Iceland will become a society where innovation will be introduced into culture and economy and ideals to set up and operate international competitive enterprises, a society with respect to pioneers and creative individuals in the economy and culture, and a model of other countries for sustainable development. A respectable president. I believe we have a very important and good case here. Of course, it's just one of many matters that we've been doing and connected with the Neo-creation policy and the government's policy of promoting research, evolution, and innovation. I expect to go for a while. The Economic and Business Committee must quickly review the statements received and expect that we will be able to resolve this matter at the end of this council so that it becomes a law. I think it is very important for us to build here on the diversity of Icelandic economy, and it will be done best by creating an environment in which people and businesses have room for their opportunities, thus creating new opportunities, making things, services, and employment for Icelandic society.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u42	Mr. President. I'm not going to cover the main elements of this bill, but I'm going to discuss what is in its name under the ▪ and the rest of that section, because in this bill, except that which is involved in innovation and all, there are also corrections for several fees that are collected to the state. First of all, there's a walking update on visas. Secondly, there is an increase in fees due to social records, which include leads from the laws that were approved here in the hall last year regarding those communities. Third, it is suggested to add a new warrant for the release of an exploratory certificate because of the bill of Justice on the ban on the marriage of children. I'd like to add the fourth correction, on a currency warrant as per law on the increase in state funds. I have proposed the adjustment of the material available here, and I would like to account for it. It proposes a cut-off on the 26th count of 1.mg. 14th par. the law on the extra pay of state funds, which is a national bill that collects due to permission to name change according to human names and, on the other hand, permission to change the registration of gender according to the sexual autonomy law. I just want to account for the past because I think that we can be completely happy as often as possible that here at the General Assembly has adopted very advanced laws on sexual autonomy recently that caused us at the beginning of the year to open a national record for individuals not to be enrolled in a national file but to add a third possibility, sex/nor to a national stereotype. However, they were surprised when they applied for this correction on a national registration of a generation that was expected to be paid nine thousand dollars. Trans Iceland immediately criticized this, pointing out that it was, for example, the case. Not only would it be easy for a person to afford to pay that price, but it would also require a number of damages to his or her career. And we're not just talking about the cost of medicine or other health care costs that not necessarily depend entirely on health insurance but also on the fact that after adjusting the registration of a species into a national registry, an individual may need a new passport for 13,000K. And a new driver's license for 8,000, so the state also has money from these people. National records responded well to Trans Iceland's criticism now in January, but they pointed out two things; first, the fee that was collected in a government fund was not for national records, and secondly, it was based on the existing price of a nationalized change in name. However, this meant that the Agency could not cancel the cost, it would be fixed in the law. So in '78 and Trans Iceland, the Council tried to proselytize with the council members and representatives of the council to change it from house to house, but did not have any business to do there. It became an early year, by the end of January that I remember, we added, me and 11 other senators, a bill to legalize the changing of the law of the remuneration of the fictitious budget to eliminate this payment, to eliminate what I would like to call the tax of transtransduction. The argument is rather simple and divides two things: First, people have the right to define their gender, and people have the right to their name. The government does not have to build any currency around a national file to instill some sort of financial sense in individuals when it comes to fulfilling this fundamental right. Second, as a result, the public interests of the country are surmised. If reimbursement has an inhibitory effect on people to apply for correction on their registration, we, the public, have a worse national record. It simply violates the aims of a national law. Last March, I recommended the bill of tax reimbursement. There was a financial and business committee and brought in three reviews; first, from the Council of '78, who pointed out that this was a legal step that could have a positive effect on people's spirituality and would actually be a correction of the laws on sexual autonomy, that it could not have been possible to have been intended at the same time as we are taking those steps in righteousness with the laws on sexual autonomy, it could not have been in order to take a price on people at the same time. Second, a review from Trans Iceland also pointed out that a special price for correction of the registration of gender gangs against the aims of transsexual autonomy and because changes in their names and registration of gender were one of the most important rights of the people, it was extremely important to have the slightest barriers there. The third report on the bill was unexpected but joyous. It was from Iceland's National Records that support this change. It supports not only the changes to the people who are correcting the registration of a generation but also those who are changing their name's record simply on the basis that it is kind of a jungle today. There are many people who have the right to a free name change according to current laws, and therefore it may be difficult to determine whether or not an application should be required. So simply removing the obligation, the process is simplified to the national records and to the people who make use of the ministry. And well to mark, President, that name and sex are the only list of national registrations that receive a special fee for change. If you change legal homes, if you move, nothing will cost you to convert a record. If you change religion or register outside religion, nothing will be necessary to convert a record into a national record. Similarly, there is no need to sign a marriage or to change the registration of marital status into a national record, although the dedication itself is a legal arrangement, e.g. ... ifa businessmanmakesup, something. A respectable president. This simple adjustment is suggested to eliminate the tax, which I consider to be merely a matter of correcting the mistakes that occurred when we walked away from the sexual autonomy laws. That's all it's about. This is about the fact that the trans tax is unjust in the sense that this is the only change in registration into a record paid for. It's about how he's a disgrace to society because he leads to worse national records, and he's going to be even less basic than he was. And he is unfair because he makes a group a moneymaker to whom we should make every possible effort to protect ourselves. A respectable president. I expect a body of Congress to come together for votes and to support these adjustments in my motion, thus showing that people are prepared to follow the sex - self - discipline laws all the way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u43	Mr. President. In this discussion about the bill for changing the tax and tax laws, where innovation, interest, taxation committee, and so forth, I intend to direct my eyes, as did the senator who was standing here in the debate before me. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, for this and for all. But I'm going to say it first. The head of the committee, anyway. The economic and business committee, if I'm right, Brongis Haraldsdóttir, was very careful and thorough about the good work of the Commission in this case that I support. And as expected from this committee, many corners had been viewed and covered. I was glad that the decision has been made to enter a committee between the 2nd and 3rd. because it gives birth to a man. The economic and business committee opportunities to add one change. Here, I refer to the same thing as that. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson regarding this focus and so on, asking the Committee to accept the so-called trans tax for their examination, i.e. take into account the modification proposal that comes from what is right. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, who is suggested to cancel two types of reimbursement as a national file, on the other hand, a license to name change under human names, and a license to change the registration of gender according to a new sexual law. I'll sort it out, and I'll just let myself claim it here, that the price is as good as anything. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson is not here today because of the problem. The U.S.R. thinks it's a great idea because it's an important company of money for the State because it's as good for these people to pay the fees that others don't have to pay to live their lives and be the way they really are, or we really are, and we have permission and will do, and have been granted important legal modifications to them here at the Senate Hall. It is likely that just how small this matter is that it does not draw attention, i.e. little in the mind of most people. But I'd like to come into the discussion here and again. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson was very careful and thorough. I'm going to repeat it for those who didn't hear, that this adjustment proposal is, in effect, a repetition of a special language of Congress. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson was a importer who, me and others, were on, about this exact case. When it was during Congress, there were three reviews, all positive, natural from the Council of '78 and Trans Iceland, and then joyful from a national file that supports the change, as only a small part of the change in name required by a national file to record, a small part. So it is full of people who are entitled to a change of name for all kinds of reasons and who do not pay for it, so here is discrimination. And then it is that the change in gender is now relatively important to individuals. This is correct, and we have not been taught to demand charges for such fundamental rights. But I wanted to add this fine talk, which was here to keep moving on with this, that although it is possible that it is in the wrong part of the box that it is now and that the wait has not been answered, because some thousands of people find it unconcerned - people can handle it, we would have bigger matters, etc. First of all, it is relatively simple to review that most likely the person who is going through a sexual correction, the transister, is now a huge financial burden of a change, even though we, the public, are not gaining that pressure. Then there is the other thing, which I would like to add to the scales here as a queer person, to the obstacle to equality, to prevent every individual here being equal to the participation in society, that our systems take the same deal with all of us, not with the same system, but with the exact variety needed to be received the same way to everyone - because it's about it, these obstacles can be all kinds of, they can be huge and they can be small. Happily, most major obstacles have been removed, and this allows us to be proud, and for that I am grateful, but for those zealous people who have been fighting for just the same rights as others, they are so difficult to find. The message is so heavy: we don't want to fix it. It's pretty heavy to get it in your face after much of your life is spent fighting for rights, so this small matter is huge for the people it matters, and it's no longer a small matter. Then it's a huge deal. That's what this is about. They're money for us. It's set up, a good Senate home. Let's fix this. We have the means of death to do so when all this fine talk is taken up, and this is important in our journey towards an even better, more open and more liberal society. I got it. I got it. The Economic and Business Committee to finish the case on a committee and then handle it properly at the Senate Hall for a vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u44	Mr. President. First, let me make a brief announcement of a warning I had made to the committee. I am at the branch office of the greater part, but I signed it in advance, promising to make an account of him in his speech. It was primarily about the definition of the procrastinator and the problems it can bring. That's why I'm warning you. Hv. paritaprevir In her speech, director Haraldsdóttir, said that when she announced that the matter would be taken into account between the 2nd and 3rd. that is exactly what the committee was going to consider. Of course, I rejoice and trust that the committee will succeed in solving these matters together so that we can all be reasonably happy and confident that the bill will serve the intended purpose. So I'm not going to put a lot of words into it. However, I was going to say a few words in an interest of a prominent speaker, w. paritaprevir When Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir was about to finish speaking and speaking from her own heart and all that was good to say, I agree with her on the emphasis on innovation, and I know that we share our views in many ways and are not going to interfere. However, I would like to say that in innovation, endurance and perseverance are needed. I have only found that there was a lack of it in the resources and the good changes that have been made in the working environment of innovation companies, that humans rely on them to extend it long into the past or beyond the facts. So I'm primarily referring to the accounts of the pension fund to invest in so - called index funds and then to temporary increases in research and development reimbursement. I just wanted it to come. Then I'd like to take this opportunity, since there's been a change in motion from what's happened. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson in connection with this matter, new material, and still a change in proposal. I'd kind of like to be happy that the adjustment has been made. This has to do with what some members of the Parliament, led by Andrés's son Andrew Ingi Jónsson, made earlier during this council, and myself was one of its transporters. I support this change proposal, and I'll just admit that I was kind of embarrassed to take it up on the committee itself at the time of the review, but of course it wasn't in the original bill. I'll support it with my mind and at least we'll take it into account. The Economic and Business Committee to discuss whether we can either add these changes into the bill and/or that the Committee can provide support for these proposed changes and will be submitted. I think it's a great deal of justice, like what happened. Andrés Ingi Jónsson and Hanna Katrín Friðriksson had a detailed review, and I'm not going to extend that discussion on my own. But I believe that this is how the situation is grown and that the cost as a result is so small that we are in the palm of our hand to finish it. In addition, a positive review has been made from a national registry that handles this registry of reports that this is a desirable change. So I don't see that we should be in a rut in these things.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u45	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a committee program with a bill-change proposal to correct a temporary reimbursement of filmmaking laws in Iceland. The bill suggests changing the law on temporary reimbursement of filmmaking in Iceland, which is made in the light of the comments made by the Kingdom Accounting Committee in October 2019 to the General Assembly. Changes are made in terms of the confirmation of the cost of a commitment to a reimbursement application, as well as a clearer cut-off on the cost of manufacturing costs to form stocks for reimbursement. It also provides access to the presentations of the projects that provide the basis for reimbursement. It is also suggested to extend the time of the reimbursement system to December 31, 2025, while the law falls unchanged at the end of this year. Other aspects of the bill's objective and subject are referred to in a series of articles. The reviews given to the committee were positive and were described as happy that the duration of the law should be extended for another four years. In the treatment of the case, it was noted that the same cost could be considered more than once as a set of reimbursements for more than one state when applying for reimbursement for production of films or TVs in this country. The Commission noted that the types of remuneration involved here include domestic total production costs, such as 2.g. The law. However, it is permitted to include a reimburse the total annual production costs available on the European Economic Areas, as well as Greenland and the Faeroe Islands, that conditions met that more than 80% of the total production costs of films or TV programs fall to this land. The Commission says that the establishment of reimbursement of the cost of production of films or TVs in this country includes domestic production costs and posts of costs that fall within the European Economic Area, Greenland and the Faeroe Islands. The Ministry appointed a recent team to evaluate the current reimbursement system for filmmaking in accordance with procedure 6 of movie policy to the year 2030, published last year. The Commission points to the Ministry that the work force will also be assigned to review the implementation of associated changes. Paybacks. They will be tested for any specific problems and if they can require increased requirements for candidates for the extension of the data. The management of the case showed that it was reasonable to add a law on overpaying the candidate's case to the Commission that the decision to reimburse the right data was not based and that the applicant received a grant beyond what was right in accordance with the requirements of temporary reimbursement in Iceland. It was observed that such provisions are now contained in the code set out by Covid process, e.g. To the 19th floor. legal on financial support to less management because of a pandemic crown virus and 9th par. the layer of income dropbacks. The Commission therefore aims to see if there is a risk of overpaying and how to react. The laws on the various strengths under the influence of the Korean virus epidemic will be consulted on the part of the laws on the various types of strength in the field of employment, which include: is expected to put 50% of the stress on overpaying if misimbursed or insufficient information has been provided, or it will protect guilty or penalties if the law is deliberately or gross incompetent. The committee presented a view that the final paragraph of Article 5 could be clearly defined. a, compare with Article 3. The bill. It says that in order to find a local cost of payment, the Committee on Reimbursement may request relevant information from the tax authorities as well as from the accounting of the company. It was noted that in place of the word, it would be more appropriate to assign information to the information that is needed in order to work on costs based on the laws and regulations involved. The committee agrees with that view and suggests a change in the subject. Then the Commission proposes a modification of the validation laws designed to enhance clarity and ensure that the law applies to the applications that have already come to treatment and processing as expected in the bill. In other respects, the changes made by the Committee are technical and are not meant to have material influence. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following changes: 1st The words have been produced at 1 mg. c-arms 2. g. ... goout. 2. Volume 1 paragraph b-joins 3. Notes: The Committee on Remuneration shall be sent to the Committee for Reimbursement and the Committee shall determine reimbursement according to Article 3. 3. Case one, paragraph three. c-joints 3. gr. It is said: According to Article 3. can request information from the tax authorities and from the accounting of the company needed to localize the applicant's expenses. 4. Instead of the word '-.4 '. mg Section 5. Come on: 5.mg. 5 g. 5. 2 mg. Section 8. put it this way: This law also includes applications for reimbursement of production costs according to Article 3. songs on temporary reimbursement for film making in Iceland, No. 43/1999, received and treated by the reimbursement committee for validation of these songs. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson is signing this opinion in advance and in advance. Councilmen who sign this commission are the ones that say here, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, president of the Professional Committee and Executive Director, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Ostir Hrafn Gunnarsson, in advance, María Hjálmarsdóttir, Njäl Trausti Friðbertsson, Ólafur Ísleifsson and Sigurður Jónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u46	A respectable president. I bring here an opinion of a change to bill for a change in a multi property law, No. 26/1994, electronic house meetings and a variety of housing, from the welfare committee. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by members of the Department of Social Affairs, Þuríður Harpa Sigurðardóttir, Stefán Vilbergsson and Steinunn Valgeirsdóttir of the United States. The committee received reviews from Home Deposit Society, Housekeeping and Civilization Institutes, Professional Association, Industrial Association and Business and Service Association, Self-Salvation and Iceland's Scaring Alliance. By means of the bill it suggests that the owners of a real estate will be authorized to hold electronic houses and to use electronic documents and e - mails in communications between governments and members of the community. However, it is suggested that houses in the multisession houses that contain both apartments and facilities used for employment be allowed to deviate from the law's law of a special house release. The reviews gave indications of the ongoing problems that have been caused by parking parking accidents in parking lots of new apartments have been announced as a special property to certain apartments. At the same time, the commission received suggestions on how to solve this problem. It has been noted that the parking lot may be a candidate for certain apartments in a single owner's home, while they are required to put the person to work first for them. The committee feels that this proposal cannot be made at this time. Such an adjustment would include the one - sided permission of one resident of a property building to take over the property of another population. It is a complex subject of opinions in the field of property. Some factors that should be taken into account should be taken into account. to the synonyms, stakeholders' approval and change of ownership declarations. The committee, however, feels that it is important to work on a solution, and as a result, it directs it to the Ministry to take this opinion for a special consideration. The work then takes place to reexamine a building order, and it should be checked in that field. Finally, the commission points out that the Ministry considers reviews that were addressed to the case on the committee. The committee suggests changes in the technical bill and is not meant to have material influence. In view of this, it suggests that the bill will be approved by the following changes I've made before, which are technical. Under this committee, Chairman Helga Vala Velgaa Helgadóttir, in advance, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristoffsdótttte, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Kolbrún Kolbrönóttir of the Árnadóttir, in advance, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, in advance, Halldódra Mogensen, with warning, Rafney Magnúsdóttir and Vilhjálmur of the Árnason, why. Councilmen on welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u47	Mr. President. I'm here offering an opinion from a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee on this matter. The committee has discussed the matter and has arranged for visitors to meet with them. There were reports from the Contestant and the Federal Bank. The bill suggests changes to laws that apply to insurance markets and banking markets. The development of the changes is three-way and is the bill intended to respond to discrepancies or inconsistencies in the law or between the laws that the Commission has identified for monitoring jobs, to respond to the EFTA comment and completes the introduction of certain types. It is proposed to make changes, as stated in the section entitled "Application Plan, " i.e. ... atthe15count3. The law, the 13th floor. 2 followed by 3 and 4 mg changes. Section 12. The law. In addition, changes are proposed which are technical and not intended to have material influence. The majority suggest that the bill be approved by the changes proposed in a special Senate document. Under the writings of Óli Steindór Valdimarsson, chairman of the Committee, Jón, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Borti Haraldsdóttir, Gunnarsson Þór, Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson, and Bogi Hafliðason son of Merit.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u48	V.E.G. President. I come up here to present some adjustments to my case. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson and what. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir. Last month alone, more than 350 jobseekers lost their right to unemployment improvement temporarily or permanently after refusing a job. The current law allows the jobseeker to lose the right to unemployment benefits of rejecting a job, even if the job he offered is in no way compatible with experience and education. Clearly, a 57th grade review is required. legal on unemployment insurance, on temporary removal of reform rights if a job is refused, but until such review is at least it is necessary to ensure that the right to reform is not lost when a person rejects a job that is in part out of line with his previous professional experience or education and turns it around.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u49	V.E.G. President. I appreciate that. It is in a good book that one day they will be the first, and that is true today. But I don't quite understand this time, Mr. President. There's more than 12 minutes. Is that a new time for speaking? Shouldn't this be 15 minutes?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u50	We need to rethink this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u51	I'd like to say something about this excellent bill to legalize the changing of unemployment insurance law, No. 54/2006, as well as the law on the payment of an athlete's company for pay and shops during the crowning season, No. 155/2020, extension. Now it is very good that the resources available for this group should be extended. Hopefully, it will help people to get their weapons already at the end, hopefully, on this epidemic that has been driving us to about 30 percent of the world's population. 18 months. There's actually one thing in this case, Mr. President, as fine as it is. I'll think of those who can't be mentioned in the bill, and that's when most people are looking for students, but their rights seem to be placed in the table as to the rights of the case right now. I think it's absolutely necessary, Mr. President, while this is the case, there's a flaw in this case, calling the case between 2 and 3. There are others who are unsettled in this regard. This refers to sports society, which is the best one. With the middle class, we would like to make the most of our sports society and would not remember the fact that the first government policy of public health was put together during prime season. paritaprevir I suppose Sigmundur's servants the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, that I should think; so we are greatly concerned that our sport is working with strength for the land and for the people. But into this bill, a group of free partners are missing. Here, for example. no mention of any Union of Icelandic Boy Scouts, which is really bad because the Boy Scouts in many countries have maintained a vigorous and very necessary job and have been active in the country for a very long time. I think that most people, or very many, at some point in their lives came into that wonderful company. I miss the fact that the Boy Scouts can't be mentioned here in the bill. There are also other free organizations that seem to have fallen between ships and docks on the contract of this bill, such as the KFUM and the KFUK. In itself it is very evil, Mr. President, when free partners and associates who engage in youthful service on a broad scale differ according to the way they operate and in what groups of their work is directed. And now, Mr. President, I'm going to insist that if we carry all these jobs together, that... The good work the athletes do, youth service, across the country, I think there is no less than or less valuable work being done by societies such as Boy Scouts and KFUK. That is why, Mr. President, it is now, in fact. because of these mistakes, I think it's absolutely necessary that this case be brought back to the committee. We must think that the Allied Council of Iceland does not want to promote discrimination, e.g. between partners, any name they call, because it's against everything we're working for at the council, to promote discrimination. It's not our job. Our job is to help people enjoy equality and equality. I'd like to refresh you here, Mr. President, because it's a poem in this otherwise excellent language. Other than that, I'd like to say that now, during those days, when we may see the end of the situation that has afflicted us with loss, there are many pitfalls to avoid when a professional life takes over, which seems to be more vigorous than expected, but there are such drafts or dangers that are involved when the job begins again. It takes, for example, Mr. President, to deal very strongly with what has been heard, that individual persons are not hiring the strength to maintain a recruitment relationship but are now planning to hire people at a lower buy than what they were given the strength to maintain recruitment relations. On top of the stock market it seems, if reports are true - this needs to be checked, Mr. President - that now when government resources are available to get people on the job, the case may look like a professional who's been working with them on actual salary levels and have the strength to maintain recruitment relations, then employing people who are less than tripled, so that the current state of state, who have just decided to pay the full amount of pay. Mr President, if there's anything we can do about this, if there's anything true about this, it can't be called just abuse and the highest level of abuse. The Minister of Social Affairs must respond to these reports by checking to see if the facts are true and if such events are not happening. People who have lost their jobs have lost their jobs, but I don't talk about at the beginning of an epidemic, suffering at the heart and body, as you say, even now that they are in the light, they don't remain in pain. That's not tolerated, Mr. President. This will have to be kept in sight and will prevent it. There is also something else that I have had in mind, even though there may be only part of this matter involved. Now that jobs and jobs are growing up again, I believe it is very important, Mr. President, that there is special consideration for those in middle age and/or older. I'm telling you, even under the best circumstances, those over the 50's often find themselves in serious trouble with finding jobs. Sadly, in this age group, there are people who are older because of a lot of experience in various jobs. The potentially opening jobs, e.g. Vocational services, such as hotel jobs, reception jobs, etc., are very suitable for people who have a few experience and who are accustomed to carrying out various tasks. Nor must we forget, Mr. President, that of this group, i.e. Among those in the middle of age and/or older are hidden valuables. The knowledge of this group is valuable, and this is what we have emphasized, the middle class, more than anyone else. We have treated this matter further because we want people to work longer in life if people are inclined and willing to do so. I reiterate that in this group, Mr President, there is knowledge and experience that are valuables that cannot be wasted, which cannot be wasted simply because we as a society cannot afford to foreordain knowledge, experience, and wisdom of this group. As soon as I'm glad that this bill is done, the idea of extending these resources - and using probes I would have made a new impression that although we middle-class members have supported everything that has come from the government to improve the position of households and businesses in this epidemic, we have already made these issues, and this is not a postage, let us point out that many of them have been rapidly damaged. Many of them have been in it for now for several months, extending a plan that we pointed to as soon as they were recorded for the first time that they needed to apply longer. Of course, I may not have been much damaged because we have been here at the last minute, often in times of great haste, extending these matters. But, of course, it is as if, as the president knows of his plagion experience, that it is not good when the General is working a case under intense pressure and pressure. We've had to do so now several times in this epidemic. It is not just possible to say that the epidemic has caused us to work this way. We have had to work like this because things were not well worked out and not well prepared. And because, as I have repeatedly pointed out from this public assembly, the government has not found it in him all this time, taking into account the fine counsel of government opposition in its actions, fine counsel, good tips, to improve the affairs of the government. However, the government has been designed to offer many suggestions whatever the situation of government has been, and it has later produced them as its own. Now, it is not that there is a personal right to opinions in this room, but it is to the government itself a threat to refuse to listen to good advice. It's not a good custom, Mr. President, not to listen to good advice that you receive and at least taking note of them, even if you do not necessarily want to do all of them. This may have been a shortage, so now is a new time, because this Covid time goes into the forgotten coma, hopefully the first, but it opens up an opportunity for a real exchange of political policy that works Iceland and Iceland into the future. I hope there will be a chance, for example. The media can present the good indications of the future he has, and we will not be on our team, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-04-107.u52	Mr. President. We're here to discuss a bill to legalize the law on unemployment insurance, No. 54/2006, as well as the law on the payment of an athlete's company for pay and shops during the crowning season, No. 155/2020. This is a administrative bill submitted by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Child Affairs. This is in nature, Mr. President, a good thing, but there is therefore a fault which includes discrimination which I will come to, which the last speaker also turned aside. This fault must be corrected, and the need for this issue to be discussed between discussions. Mr. President. The report on the bill suggests that continuing to have some uncertainty about the domestic labour market due to the spread of the crown virus, causing the so-called Covid-19 disease. In view of this, this bill suggests changes in unemployment insurance laws intended to respond to the effects of a pandemic virus has had on the labour market. The bill also suggests changes in the law on the payment of an athlete's carols for the pay costs and shops of the Korean epidemic in order to cope with the effects of a pandemic of the Korean virus has had on the activities of an athlete's society. Mr. President. I'd like to make a special subject and call attention to the comments about this subject by KFUM and KFUK. This review is written under the heading "Appreciative Opportunity to correct severe flaws and discrimination in the law of No. 155/2020'. It's the law to pay a sports club for pay expenses during an outbreak of crown virus. According to the beginning of this report, the government in Iceland has a wealth of insight into the importance of youth and sports for the development of children and adolescents. They have shown this by means of powerful financial support in organized youth and sports activities that have been broken by the virus. How grateful we can be for what is well done and commend those who have led that work! The largest part of the government's operating package is a law on the payment of an athlete's carols for pay and contractors during the crowning season, i.e. The above law No. 155/2020, approved last winter. Here's a bill for changing the law so that their time will be extended by six months. The review goes on under the subheading of the "Gate of Love and Youth. " It says that in Iceland it is important to offer a wide range of good sports and youth work. Although the exercise is there, we need to remember that not all children will find themselves in sports. So says the review, with the permission of a president: ▪ A number of them are more involved in another organized youth work. Because the sport is large and prominent, a person may have to be called on to hear an organized youth service that is not operated under the merits of sports. This includes the U.S. and KFUK, the Union of Icelandic Boy Scouts and other members who work on the basis of childhood nationalities and make its agreement with the Ministry of Education and Culture. These parties are the nature of the situation, not the members of the Olympian team. The following is the subheading of the law, which says, by permission of the president: The law immediately identified the problem that they are exclusive to a team in Iceland's National Sports and Olympics. A line was drawn across the tribe of sports and youth. A rescue ring was thrown to the members of a team defined as sports club, while the others have crammed in with nightmares. This involves an intolerable discrimination that we pointed out to the law's sentence in December, but it didn't allow room to be fixed. It is very bad that governments have sent out the message that youth service in the gymnasium is more important than youth service in the Boy Scout home. All can be clear how crazy it is, e.g. Brenubylik's karate department can get support in the name of the law, but the Boy Scouts are left outside. Both parties represent a vigorous and professional youth service in Kopavogsdal and both sides are members of the collective organisations with a service contract at the Ministry of Education and Culture. Mr. President. The headline is now discussing solutions under the subheading, and it says, by permission of the president: ▪ Now that the laws mentioned above are being changed, there is a fine opportunity to fix this flaw. At the same time as the time of law will be extended, the second paragraph of Article 3. The law says: 1st An Olympian Association: A legal member of Iceland's National Institutes and Olympic Association, the Union of the European Parliament, KFUM and KFUK in Iceland and other organizations who have in the name of sports and youth services contracts with the Education and Culture Ministry of Education, including individual agencies serving on the behalf of the legislature. It goes on to say that as temporary legislation is involved, the writer under the headings of KFUM and KFUK, i.e. Tómas Torfason, executive director of KFUM and KFUK in Iceland, did not need to make any further adjustments to skin patches and ensure that the law covers the seminary of sports and youth, regardless of whether the job is carried out under sports merits or not. With this simple change, it is truly simple, Mr. President, it would be opened up to the level of support for the work force within the above movement. Commenting on the fact that the number of organizations that have a formal agreement with the Ministry of Education and Culture in the name of sports and youth service is limited and well defined. So, with the change, no undefined puzzles are being opened. Of course, it is a very important thing, Mr. President, that the number of organizations that have a formal agreement with the Ministry in the name of sports and youth service is limited and well defined. Finally, the World Health Committee of the Generals concludes that there is now a unique opportunity to correct the errors made in winter by law No. 155/2020, a mistake that has sent a very bad message to the community, a mistake that will do no good to no one. So says the President's permission: ▪ At the same time as we rejoice in the law of No. 155/2020 will be changed so that their duration will be increased by six months, we invite the Council to change Article 3. The law of the law, so well - established youth movement, which does not work under sports merits, can seek the support of which they are supported - on the part of the labour oce - the laws allowing them to match the sports institutions. The report concludes that the Council is urged to change Article 3. The laws of youth movement, which do not work under the merits of sports, can consult the labour oce for the support the law allows, to match sports companies. Mr. President. This requires that the matter be put back into discussion. A reference was made that the differences that have been so thoroughly explained in the comments I have made that the subject, from KFUK and KFU, will be corrected. Mr. President. Not to correct these mistakes, that discrimination between youth and sport will not be tolerated.
