ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u1	The president considers it possible for a meeting to last longer than the Council of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u2	The president wants to report that this is not expected today's votes, but there is a recession for a conference between 13 and 15 for a council meeting and a committee meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u3	Borist wrote a letter from the Council of Pirata that Andrés Ingi Jónsson and Leví Gunnarsson will not be able to do any congregational work in the near future. Today, therefore, at the General Assembly, whereby Lunya Run Rún Karim, 1st of the Smoke Company, took up residence. N., and Gunnhildur Fríða Hallgrímsdóttir, 2nd Class of Smoke. As a result, 1st of the lists has announced ahead of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u4	Their letters have already been investigated and agreed, but they have not previously taken their place in the General Assembly, so the commitment to the Constitution is to be signed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u5	Gunnhildur Fríða Hallgrímsdóttir and Linya Run Rún Karim have signed their commitment to the Constitution and are welcomed to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u6	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a board of committees on bill making legal adjustments in various laws because of the budget for the year 2022. In view of this, more part of the Economic and Business Committee is available; I say here, Guðrún Hafsteinsdóttir, Ágúst Bjarni Garðarsson, Árnadóttir Þóra Aarnadótir, Hafdís Hrönn Hafsteinsdóttir and Diljá Mist Einarsdóttir. I'd like to thank the Committee for good business cooperation during its discussion. As indicated by the committee's opinion, the committee was contacted by the numerous economists and experts, both from councils as well as from various stakeholders. In my opinion, the commission met some 40 people and received some 30 envelopes. What I would like to draw forward in the bill is this: It's an extension of the campaign All Work, correction of parishes to ensure religious activity and an increase in the payoffs made by older citizens. I will come to these changes later in my case. The largest revenues return a 2.5% rise in centenarian taxes and retails in accordance with the prices proposals of the budget bill, i.e. increase in carbon charge, oil tax, general and special fuel fees, common and special mile tax, automobile tax, and tobacco tax. This amount of income is estimated to be 2.4 billion. I will now review the changes made by the committee. A greater proportion of the committee suggests that the initiative will be carried out in 2022 but with adjustments, while the reimbursement of the valuable tax will be reduced as per year so that after August 31, the reimbursement part of the campaign will be returned to the same level as it was prior to the Covid pandemic. In this way the committee believes that it can soften the impact of the reduction in construction work in the country. The committee doesn't think it's time to see that the arrangements for reimbursement from human employment such as it is implemented for temporary purposes in terms of terms of merit tax laws will be completely canceled. So in the August 31, 2022, the Commission suggests that the resources are extended to 31st, 2022, with regard to reimbursement for industrial and construction workers employed at the construction site and maintenance and housing reforms. From September 1, 2022, the return is at 60%. Other factors specified in the provision will be extended to June 30 in 2022 but the intention to remove 1st of July 2022, other than the reimbursement of worth tax on human car repairs, car paint, or car correction will fall on January 1, 2022. According to the financial Ministry it is planned to re-evaluate a total reexamination of the cost tax law in 2020, including a set of credit taxes in the construction industry and that the tax responsibilities in the industry will be reviewed in whole. A greater part of the figure is that in this work there will also be a clear policy to the future on the arrangements for reimbursement of worthwhile taxes to individuals for the work of industrial and industrial workers due to innovation, reform and maintenance. In the 9th. the bill suggests an increase in car costs by 2.5% due to climate change. The committee proposes that a fraction of the automobile charge, minimal automobile charge, will increase by 1,000 dollars. In addition to what is suggested in the bill. The Commission considered that we are facing basic changes in the collection of vehicles. Is this rise in response to a decrease in income intake because of reduced fossil fuel sales. In 1 1. The bill is suggested that the financial expenses paid by the F.I.A. be changed. The check account is divided into two, a fixed price, and a variable price. In 1 1. the bill is, uh... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... added to the change in pension fund monitoring spending so that the share of fixed fees in the overall burden of pensions will be increased from 60 to 70%. In the reviews received by the Committee came even. comment on, especially from smaller funds, regarding the arrangement that so much of the cost is divided evenly by the fund, which includes the arrangement that the share of total stress is higher in smaller pensions than in more valuables. The committee suggests that there is now no basis for the increase in overall burden of pensions in the expected way and suggests a change in the proportion of fixed fees of overall burden to remain unchanged or 60%. The majority of the exorbitant rights presented in the Committee's panel are more relevant to the current Economic and Business Committee on the bill to adjust the law due to the budget for 2021 on the importance of a review of the monitoring programme, taking into account that there is a further equality between the different Pentateuchs and the fair exchange of the currency. This review is not seen to have been made during the year. 23rd degree. The bill is suggested to add additional fees to the provisional payment of a fixed year's fee of 985 p.m. in a month 2022 per person 16 years of age and older. It is an exception from the principle of the law that the money of parishes will change according to the estimated change in the average taxation product of individuals 16 years of age and older, as well as an increasing number of individuals. The committee points out that in the bill's report there seems to be a misunderstanding, which says in the bill's report that a fixed dollar number is suggested to rise from 980 k. per month according to current law at 985K. or about 0.5%. In accordance with the regulations of XIV for temporary purposes, attendance rate was 1080. in a month, 2021. Is suggested in the bill to reduce attendance charges. The majority suggest a change in terms of an application charge of 1,107. in a month 2022 per person 16 years of age and older. As a result, the increase goes into 2.5%, which is in line with the cost of Iceland's Pentateuch. Temporary payment laws for the pay of persons who are under aseptic conditions as instructed by the health authorities, without being infected, are taken into account. 1.mg. 1st par. The law to pay on the pro-employers who have paid pay from February 1, 2020 to December 31, 2021. In the Department of Social Affairs, dated December 17, 2021, the Ministry suggests that the period covered by the law will be extended to December 31, 2022. In this connection it is noted that in all doubt, how long will the extra contours be used by the health authorities in order to restrict the spread of pandemic crown virus? The Commission agrees with the Ministry's proposals and makes them theirs. The Department of Social Affairs proposed to extend the next year an interim directive so that by 2020, the person who is guaranteed by unemployment insurance law and who has a contribution to children less than 18 years of age will be entitled to 6% of the uninvolved primary non-employment with each child is entitled only to primary non-employment or at the end of the period of income-related unemployment. The Commission agrees with the above statement by making it a part of the Ministry. The majority suggest that, in agreement with the Department of Social Affairs, the decline in the rate of disability, at the same time. 5 mg. 18th par. Act on social security, dropping from 25% to 11%. In chapter 3 of the above - mentioned statement by the Ministry of Social Affairs, it is estimated that according to the bill for 2022, the improvement in microenergy donors is expected to increase by 5.6%. The change will remain as a result of an increase in the cost of the dollar, so that the increase in the income of a pensioner by a dollar may result in loss of the right to pay of disability and related pennies. The proposed changes are intended to stem the problem and to prevent small increases in the amount of income they make. The committee stresses the discovery of future solutions in this regard. The Commission suggests, in consultation with the Department of Social Affairs, that there will be a special cut on the income of individuals paid half of their pensions. In the 18th. The bill is suggested that the perks of the income of those paid full of pensions be raised from 1,200,000 dollars. a year at 2,400,000 a year. So that half of the pensions can be used to suggest that at the same time there be a special payout for the income of those paid half of their pensions who pick up the same amount of money. Otherwise, the majority refer to the Ministry's memo on the matter and accept its viewpoint. It is suggested that the coincidences due to an involved vehicle be removed and discussed by the committee according to various angles of view. The committee stresses the effort to speed up the energy exchange of vehicles on a land that is most efficient. However, on the other hand, I would like to point out that the time has not yet come to eliminate these coincidences now, so I believe that these matters will be considered more carefully in relation to how we can increase the number of automobiles and the number of cars that go before fossil fuels, which is our goal. Other changes that the greater part suggests in its members are technical and not intended to have material influence. According to this, a greater proportion of the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes proposed to a special Senate document and that the case should be returned to the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u7	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator and president of the Economic and Business Committee for a good cooperation on the Committee. I come up here because I think we only need to discuss the severe warning words received from the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs on the extension of all the working arrangements. According to the Ministry, the extension is an extension of the expansion. It interferes with sectoral equality and undermines the efficiency of the value tax system. It costs $8 billion next year, making it difficult for the State Fund to subsidize and to hold back inflation. The Ministry also points out that there is no evidence to show that the treatment against black employment or to improve tax rates has not been determined. No diagnosis is available. So I just want to pray. The head of the Economic and Business Committee to explain to the extent that the majority of the Committee disagrees with these warning words, whether the Office of the Ministry of Economic Affairs is wrong. And then I'd also like to ask why most of the Committee will not respond in any way to these indications, why the greater part of the Committee will not respond to these heavy and decisive warning warnings, because we do not often see such a procedure in which the Ministry is specifically warning the Council of Economic Affairs by itself. Why are these warnings not even mentioned in members of the greater section?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u8	Thank you. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll for the inquiry. All jobs are a work done for a very long time in Icelandic society. This has benefited from the battle against black employment. There's still a little bit more of a construction industry in Iceland, that's clear. And when it has been given up in the Icelandic economy, the man - made sector has been the one that has had to bear very heavy loads and has been severely affected by it. Since the collapse of the bank, all of us know of the economic crisis that the construction site was hit by a massive blow, hardly ever since. The campaign has benefited from the struggle against black employment, and I would like to mention that in this context, Skúla Eggert Þórðarson, a local tax manager, was able to give up the job by not giving up his job by paying off the valuable tax so that the seller can escape from giving up the sale for income tax. So I don't think there's any proof that there's any benefit of this job being given up and on board.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u9	A respectable president. It is interesting to hear these views. Of course, they are contrary to the reasoning presented by the Ministry. The Ministry gives reasons for its own issues and points to data on the construction sector's position, etc., but it seems more to speak out of some kind of feeling of how things are. I'd also like to remind you that before all the winning arrangements started, there was a natural tax paying out of 60% of the value tax. There have been no analyses and no evidence of any increase in this rate to 100% is likely to occur at a tax rate. What we do know, however, is that this reduces the value of a factor of 7.2 billion, reminds me. But then again and there is the government's priorities in social security, i.e. the increase in income income income from older people. On December 15, we were granted confirmation that the preparation for this operation required about 1,300 persons. He goes to the highest income of the population, of which 67% go to men and 33% to women. I'd love to hear from it. Chairman of the Committee why this is such a priority, whether it is really fair to have an eight-fold more pay-of-the-art-free pension goal in older people. Why is it not that, according to income tens of income, there is a much equal trend in the process that we know is being distributed? Why is that not so?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u10	Hv. Senator, thank you. I'd like to come back to the campaign Everybody's working where it's at A senator speaks of high costs and high expenses. We missed the Committee not to see from the Ministry as well, or solely, calculating the budget gate, as if there were nothing coming back to the state. Of course, we tend to forget that all employment is given for tax returns to the State. It's paid an answer, there's a income tax, there's income back. It's not fair to look at just one of the axes here and see only the outhand side. Of course, there's a profit coming in against it. Hv. A senator speaks of this as an expensive effort. How expensive it is for the Icelandic state to plan to raise the payoff target to everyone! It runs into more than billions of people. So we've put the emphasis on raising the income market. Most of us may know that the nation's ages are changing. We want to see that people are active for as long as they are men or women.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u11	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. President of the Economic and Business Commission. But there are three things I would like to come in on. First of all, everybody's working. Second, what has to do with the new energy cars and third, it has to do with the increased contribution of pensioners. I'd like to ask who first. A senator on details about electric cars, i.e. taxation. I think this is making a considerable serious mistake as to pushing on the trend that has been here in increasing the number of new energy cars, taking the link trucks out of this solution, this approach. Although we were only looking at the development of these cars, to the driver's perspective, I think it would be wise to maintain this at least. for an additional year and a half to two years. But if we watch how these cars are registered, they're more or less, all those 100% electric cars, right here on the southwest corner. In post-mail number 101◯230, about 75% of these cars are right, I think. It's a total of 71 such cars in the old northern ultimatum of the West. There is a big difference between the capital area and the country in this regard, and in that view, even if not for the rest of it, I would be wise to maintain it for a while. But the question is why. The president is: The president's opinion is that it is wise to reevaluate the matter between 2 and 3. For this is to be cut from the next month to the next, which is in a few days?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u12	Thank you. A senator for the questions. It was in the opinion of the committee, in my recent history, that we believe it right to examine the inconsistencies of automobiles to automobiles, motor vehicles, and electrical vehicles. It is clear to the government's objective that Iceland will be a non-carbon object in 2040 and that most of us will be free of fossil fuels. That is a lofty goal, and we are going to reach it. Then, how we will do so - something must be done very well. We need to take a close look at the best approach in this regard. In other words, there is a view that these inconsistencies should not be used to link a vehicle car, which includes partially building gasoline and diesel trucks. In contrast, they can be restricted to a narrow cut so that the CO2 value for which they return is lower. This is a specific problem, especially since we have an enormous number of rental cars in Iceland, and it has been very difficult to rent clean electric cars. I'm worried that if that's the way our rentals are going to be, as long as our infrastructure has not improved, then it'll be a problem to distribute tourists around the country and the far capital area, which we would like to see, of course.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u13	Madam President. Thanks for the answer. I thought the answer was excellent, but it conflicts with everything in the Committee and the Ministry's proposal. So I hope so. The head of the Economic and Business Committee is taking good care of a change proposal, which will be expected to appear between 2 and 3. ... andmake this a better way than the rest of the day. But it makes me want to go over to a matter that is about to win. It is suggested that part of the solution falls now after a few days, immediately at a year's easing point, an additional part of which was installed to reform and maintain vacation homes and human work as a result of household assistance and regular housing care. In this I think I was also something of a community, i.e. Companies owned, falling on June 30, 2022. And then the general portion of this drops from 100% to 60%, on August 31, 2022. Is there an explanation behind this complicated foot here that is trying to build into this, to have three different dates? And now, as we look at the introduction of regulations that make it possible for people, especially in the country, to have major operations that turn toward their own cars and cars still to a greater degree and so forth, they came along the streets and had some views and problems with the Committee as regards extending the proposals of reimbursement due to car repairs, paint, and rights work? These are the problems I think have created entirely at the desks of the group here at home and abroad in the recent years.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u14	Thank you. 8th yrs Witchest. The file %1 has The campaign was all work 60%, and the remuneration part was increased to 100% as part of the Covid operation and to address the economic shock caused by it. The Ministry suggested that this effort be dropped to 60% in all respects during the New Year's Eve. The committee suggests some kind of softening of this operation, including that the article can adapt to it - there are tasks being carried out; there are projects with rural society; there are tasks in many areas in the community and elsewhere - so that these projects can be completed. As a result, by the end of the New Year's Day, reimbursement from automobiles fell all the way down to the end of the year, which has been the lowest part of their reimbursement. And then, at the end of the month, 100% will be held out at the end of the June, by which, by the month, the reimbursement will be dropped by vacation homes and rural communities. Since then, all will be back on September 1 to 60%. This led to a decision made by the Commission in order to soften the impact on the industry.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u15	A respectable president. I bring here an opinion from a smaller part of the Economic and Business Committee on a bill to legalize various laws due to budgets for the year 2022. It is a pleasure to be as different from the ranks of the Republic, the Party of the People, the Piranians, and the Conspiracy have been able to unite here on a matter of principle, both in criticism of the government's financial agreements and in a vision of how to set the priorities for the government's financial and tax matters in terms of total interest. Public financial laws set the lines on how to organise budgets, and it is assumed that financial plans are proposed until spring, discussion of fiscal planning and policy measures will be carried out in this way during the first half of the year. Thus, there would be time for a thorough and well - thought - out job on the budget itself. In other words, the idea was to disseminate the pressures of government management over a year and thus contribute to the careful legalization and responsible management of public funds. As we know, in the fall, the government groups decided to make total elections. V.E.G. During a television interview, the minister of finance reasoned that he did not want to give up power. He wanted to keep them as long as possible. It is quite clear, however, that this arrangement has worked against the objective of public financial law that the treatment of the World Health Organization continues to spread over the year, and now we are sinking on it. If elections had been held that spring, the budget bill would have lasted over the last summer, carefully preparing a bill and related matters could lie ahead at the beginning of the fall. Instead, on November 30, after weeks of a campaign violation study and after a historical delay in government development, the budget was submitted. Thus, rather than allowing the government's financial bill to be handled carefully, the General has had to discuss the matter under an enormous amount of time pressure. This brief treatment period means that the period of reporting has been shorter than normal. It reduces the potential of public, institutions, organizations, companies, and stakeholders to promote comments and also means that all changes are made in hand gels. The chances of failure are multiplying. All of this is a sign of indifference and disrespect for the role and responsibility of the General Assembly as the legislature and financial authority. We in the smaller part are at least I agree that this is not the way things should be done. I hope that all classes can unite in making elections next spring rather than fall. Then let's move on to the subject of the bill. During our smaller section, we decided to study the most important changes being made in the budget. Our view is presented in three very detailed chapters. Then we add some points at the end to which we felt that we could not pass on briefly. Let's start with the new reference for an update to taxation level and step point. This is one of the new indicators of the bill, a change which implies that the step-and-relevant limit of the income tax system will develop in rhythm with a conversation of inflation, as measured by the index of consumer prices and production growth. This is based on ideas from a team of experts reporting income tax revisions and reform systems from 2009, the declared objective of the changes is to establish an actual tax scale over the past few years. This real tax crisis includes the spontaneous increase in tax loads and more in income - raise groups than in the increase in revenues due to failure of paces and tax limits in labour development. It is a joy to see a financial and economic minister face this rise in tax gain that has taken place on his watch. The joy of the highest is even greater. Minister wants to react to her. Here on the bill is a process of protection against the long-term recovery of the economy over long-term yielding of revenue and balance balance effects of the income tax system. This is a fine price, but we in the memory of the section agree that in the bill, the proposal of the experts group I mentioned earlier is disfellowshipped when it comes to the choice of production standards without any compelling evidence to be made. There is no major analysis, or logically, why these criteria are selected rather than others and why this particular period is considered to be different from any other period, whether it was longer or shorter. We are also disturbed by the fact that in the report of the budgetary worm, there is a pessimism of Icelandic employment to increase production and improved production skills. This comes as a surprise, in view of the importance of running faster and growing out of the virus situation, that we need to rely on this. We need to keep in mind that evolution is not something that is permanent; it depends on it. on political decisions on government investment levels, on technological development, and on whether there are conditions for active competition and valuables. A choice of the resulter's standards must not be random, and it must be a transparency of the views of the manufacturer's choice. It is also important that the increase in production is not underestimated because it will cause payoffs when we have those standards. In particular, the stepwise shift of the income tax system and the stepholder in the upper part of the tax system is less in Iceland than in many neighboring countries, so the tax system has far more impact on income - bearing groups in this country than in many other countries. We in the smaller part agree that further analysis of costs and defects should be made to limit the level of inflation conversation and production, and to compare the benefits and defects of aiming for e.g. for pay numbers, such as the labor movement has been calling for a long time. Then I'd like to talk about social security and that's where I'm off duty. On terms of budgetary law, social security will increase by 4.6% for next year's pensioner and 5.6% for disability pensioners. This is not consistent with the observed tax rates, mean increases in the general labour market, which means that the budget is a prescription for continued blundering between pay and pension. It is, of course, just a political decision, let it be in mind, it is not some nature of nature to leave those who depend on a pension. In view of the fact that a number of pensioners live in poverty, that decision is especially reprehensible. According to the National Institute of Insurance, some 14,000 pension workers in Iceland need to substantiate their lives at less than 300,000 dollars. a month before taxation. 80% of micro-organism is difficult to make ends meet based on a recent report Protecting the labour market laboratory. Then there's an inequities among senior citizens more in Iceland than among the public. This is the opposite of what we see in most other North countries, e.g. correspondent in Norway, Denmark, and Finland The most intimate way to combat these low - income problems of older people and disability is to raise unskilled pensions, but we also feel that there will be less money reduction, these income - related declines in the social security system, especially to make sure that they do not disappear as early, as low in the revenues as they do in real life. That's the perfect key. This financial agreement suggests the only change in the social security ratings of older people to double the job income market. It's raising 100,000 bucks. every month for 200,000 K. per month. Interestingly, this is also the only stringent proposal in the social security matters, especially in the social security of older people, as we see in the Government Treaty. So it's a top priority operation, top priority, the government on Social Security. Thus, in our memory, it was important to learn how the improvement in this procedure is distributed, both between income and gender. The committee requested a memo on this and the Department of Social Affairs and Security compiled this information. The result? It's not necessarily surprising, but it's still a bit striking to see it so black in white. The operation will be of value to 1,300 individuals approximately or about 3% of the elderly listed in TR. Of these, most are in the top income tenants, especially the top two companies. 67% are men, 33% are women. The special support of this group as the sum of pay and pension continues, and the vacation market for money from older people is replaced by a priority that we have in the United States, Pirates, the Gang of the People, and We together are not particularly interested in this committee. It's not too good for a socialist to make this a top priority. We need to look at all these changes in relation to the overall social security system and remember that with this change, with an increase in this holiday goal, the post-year situation will be that the early income market will be eight times higher than that of the common currency market that takes on pensions. It's going to be only $25,000. during and after a month the impairment begins to bite. In the smaller parts, we want to remind you that pension income is nothing more than a postponed income from people who have paid from a pension fund. According to the Department of Social Affairs, it is quite clear that each small step taken for the increase in the general average average average income would be much equal, depending on the income level and after the sex, but this increase under the top priority of the management sector. We also agree with criticism, which is shown in the review of the Lands Association of Pension Funds on the bill. It points out that with this varied management of income, depositors are disparaged. We find it reprehensible that in the report on the budget of the agreement, there is no evidence of the great discrepancies that is being made between these groups or that the slightest attempt is made to make any assessment of the impact of this error. The political decision to raise only the cost of employment but to leave the common cost of vacationing especially on people who have worked hard for a lifetime and who simply have to retire because of their health, cannot work indefinitely. These groups will have to endure severe impairments and greater limitation taxes than people who still have the ability to work. It is ironic to us that in the financial dues, only an increase in the permafrost market in older people is expected, not in micropigs. Consider what is stated in the government covenant. It specifically shows that it will be considered to improve the potential for self-employing disability, education, and employment. A question-study conducted for the Micro-Lational Association found that the decline in the social security system is one of the main barriers to the increased employment activities of this group. We also know that since 2009 the commercial market for micropigs has taken place. That would be well over 200,000 bucks. I think it would be high for $250,000. If it had been paid at that time, then it would have been worth 2 60,000. Hence, we must ask ourselves, " What exactly is it that the greater part of the government wants to hold on to this free income goal in 109,600 bucks? ' in a month, keep it high to half as low as the job income market for older people. There has been no reasonable argument. The only thing we hear is always the same song about an overall rejection that should take place sometime in the future but that has little to say. These promises of an overall review are used as an excuse for refusing human reform right here and now. It's always the same story; deny people the possibility to get the rocks outside the social security system. Is it, e.g. in harmony with independence? Is this in harmony with the three ideologies of this government, punishing people for winning? We were discussing everyone working earlier. They concluded that the bigger the picture had to be viewed, that it was not to be viewed simply by the missing income. Why don't you think about something about the most efficient people, people who can't work, people with limited skills, how would that be? Let's be clear that government policy means that poorer part-time jobs in the labour market will continue to be subjected to more than 70% of the fiscal taxation due to combined revenues in the social security and taxation, 70% taxation, 70% of the tax from each additional budget they earn. To compare: What's our perimeter tax in this room? 46.25%, right? That's our perimeter tax from the high-payers. In the lesser part, we severely criticize it. We feel that this conduct is unacceptable to a group that is counting on the social security system. We feel that it is a minimum requirement to keep the company's small income markets in line with the early job market and raise to 200,000 dollars. Right after New Year's Eve. How much? That's going to take between 1◯2 billion. In comparison, an extension of the next year's 7.2 billion won. This is the context of the parts we're talking about here. We have at least a few minutes. Create a modification proposal for this. We challenge all members of Congress to vote with the change, regardless of any group of members, let's just agree on this. I'm also going to cover only the income fund in general. There have long been very serious weaknesses in the survival of the State, and they were exposed before the pandemic. During the training period before the epidemic, the rise of the State Fund and the government grew. The share of land production was at the same time that the share of income was reduced. This is the problem, and this trend has to go back. We need to strengthen the government's income side so that this cry of failure between income and pay and thus ensure the long - term stability of public funds is guaranteed, in order to ensure national stability. The economy is now in place, so the economy is on its way out. Inflation is a long way ahead of us, and holding it back can be a challenge for the months to come. We'll see that Iceland's Secret Bank calls for, under the review of a bill for the budget, to show the greatest financial value. This makes money policy easier for them and reduces the need for sharp growth. This is in the context of which we in the smaller part feel compelled to point out that any decision on tax intensity must be based on well - thought - out and grammatical views and must be taken into account in the economic and economic situation. Then we're based on evidence of these articles, not just what we think. As the financial and economic tax office points out, in a report to the Economic and Business Committee, an extension of a 100% reimbursement tax from the construction industry does not meet this test at a time when inflation is far above the Seder's price targets, a interest level is increasing, and the sector is only doing well. It must then be considered that the valuable tax system is the largest single collection of state funds, and it must be insisted that individual sectors are not particularly wanted unless they are strong arguments. We can see that every time they're granted such an exception there's a request for more leaves; why not this group, too, why not this business, why not this one? It's far better to just build on a strong general system of values taxation, not to hole it up forever inside, my God Almighty. As soon as there is a need to hold back unmarked and expanding expenses, it is important that the maintenance phase, which is also the approved bat. to call, also to show on the income side, that it is not affected by basic services, public investments, as the government and the public have a very important role in the large social challenges we face, whether demographic changes, the aging of the nation, or the climate, the technology. In the memory of the section, we encourage increased revenues and careful attention to taxation of capitals, possessions, and highest incomes, as well as reasonable and reasonable transfers of resource resources. Similarly, we feel it is very important to strengthen farm society and to remember that society's attitude is now worse than it was when a financial plan was submitted. Here it may be noted that in the Government Treaty, if I recall correctly, there is specifically mention that the host's fee is to be made to a rural society, but it is now postponing a period of overnight spending in almost the entire terms of terms, so it will be expected during the last year of the terms of the income stocks that are being added to the rural population. When changing environmental and resource taxes laws, it is important that measures are evaluated based on both the impacts on greenhouse gas emissions and the effects on different income groups. In this bill, elevations in carbon and other related costs are simple 2.5% rise in accordance with the requirements of the budget for the year 2022. In view of a much higher rate of inflation, this actually includes a reduction in carbon costs and may reduce its impact between years. This is amazed at all government declarations that there will be increased ambitions for climate during these terms. In fact, increasing carbon bills is a very effective way to combat emissions. Various measures can be taken to protect harvesters from its influence. This is a carbon bill as a basis for innovation's sponsorship in contaminated industry opportunities that would be more appropriate to look to. In the memory of this section, we believe the long-term plans for what the government and the government are planning for the Green Resources and Green Involves. Remember, the group leading the government and leading the Environment and Resource Ministry during the last term had in their policy sheet of elections to raise the carbon account in stages. On the other hand, there is no vision of a green income source in the bill that we are dealing with, nor in a government covenant, nor in the budget. Information on the real successes of the actions and policies of the present government in the future is unclear, and this makes all discussion of the individual actions of the government very difficult. We never really know what the whole thing is when we're looking at each change. We recommend that the plan be settled so that the next discussion on budgets and related issues will be discussed at a higher level. Finally, we want to promote the following points: First, the National Association of Iceland has declared that the government's support of housing security and the relocation systems of the relegated workers will be critical in the efforts of the labor movement to bring in 2020 and 2020. A close - cut way of setting up a successful workforce would be to put extra money into the child - saving system and increase the supply of cost - making housing with higher government stocks for the general housing system. Neither is mentioned by the government's budget bill and budget agreement, and it is not yet up to the fact that government promises made when the biographer contract was signed, the increased rights of tenants, and the actions against pay thefts, will be fulfilled. It's not a good roadside in a heart-to-heart conversation, it's just gonna have to say it. Another point we want to mention is that in a report by experts, a review of income taxes and reform systems from 2018, there is a widespread failure to show respect for the agreed remuneration rules. It may be estimated that the real part of the industry is misdesigned as capital gains in Iceland and in current regulations there is a substantial amount of information for the tax authorities when it comes to determining the partners in their own business of pay. In the smaller sections, we feel that there has been no response to these indications, such as legal adjustments in which capital income is defined on the basis of sectoral property and prepared for yield, as are done in many North countries. The economic situation of ASI points out in a recent report, taxanes, and inequities: a more righteous and efficient tax system, that by measures that limit the potential for earning transport, the income may be increased by a total of 33/48 billion dollars. each year, and that tax burden would only be placed on the highest rate of 10% taxpayers. In the memory of this section, we also object to higher costs than the amount we see in the bill itself. It is our belief that the state should discontinue parishes sooner or later for religious and biological organizations and that such collections are in accordance with very poor modern ideas about the role of the State. It is far more true that religious organizations themselves are involved in this collection. Now it seems to me that I have considered ourselves more materially. I want to thank the members of the committee, both the members of the greater part and the smaller part, for their good cooperation in the Committee, a good time together. What I've been doing here is the fundamental principles we've come together in the lesser part. They are based on the values we adhere to. We do not expect our emphasis to be part of these budgets, there are other categories that govern the country. However, we ask the members of the council to unite in the obvious justice of the fact that the microorganic holiday market is following the early people's leisure market at the end of the year. It's the least we can do.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u16	A respectable president. The Honorable World of Congress, both here and at home. My name is Tómas, called Tommi, and I'm an older citizen. I would like to use this opportunity to thank the last speaker for making a poor talk. I'll think of the saying, "The drop will break the stone." Sæland hareland and Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson have been fighting for the interests of those less fortunate, and I rejoice that more people will join us in that. I just want to see in this brief counter-regument talk that we older citizens number 45,000, of which 14,000 are one third of the senior citizens who have to survive with less than 300,000 dollars. per month. They're the ones who would have enjoyed it if their pension rights had been increased. [[The president calls.]] I'll continue later.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u17	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this suggestion. As I went over the years, it is just so that each small rise in the general income market would be much equal, and precisely to the people who are most in need of additional support, while the rise in income-free income markets would be distributed primarily to them in the highest income and to the men. It's, like I crossed over here, a certain inequities among older people. We need to put far more weight on these busiest groups than the government is going in the other direction. That's a worry.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u18	A respectable president. I used to hate to read it earlier in my short talk that last time I got into this talk chair, on Wednesday, I made the mistake that I was wearing jeans. It was kind to me that it wasn't the General Code, and I apologized for it here and now, and I hereby announce that I have changed my clothes. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u19	A respectable president. I may come up here to commend the smaller sections of the committee, since the cooperation with him and with other members of the committee has been exemplary. Of course, I'm just a rookie at the council, and maybe I'll learn to be a big fan of something. However, it is positive to see that with new people in government opposition, it seems to be turning aside from the amazing idea that the solution from the antiviral situation is increasing the number of government officials, rather being encouraged to have conditions for active competition and value creation. Of course, in view of the loss of parts, you can find a familiar tone that encourages increased taxation, encouraging increased appeals for people and businesses. Well, I guess it'll be a little late with a new kind of manpower. On the other hand, when concern over an increase in tax burden is expressed, I felt that I could detect only admiration. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson has an upset and suggestion from the highest level. Secretary of finance when he encourages him to impress these matters. Finally, I may mention the issues of climate, including commendation, but there is, of course, greater pressure. That's not a surprise. [[The president calls.]] However, it is safe to take under the encouragement of a minority of the Committee to increase transparency and maintenance of climates and to guide real success measures in making decisions on the objectives of this category. [[The president calls.]] That is an excellent reminder.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u20	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Diljá Mist Einarsdóttir for this introductory act. As for the growth of public work as a solution, or perhaps as part of a procedure, to get us out of the crisis, I may commend the administrative part during the last term for creating a high level of 1,000 public jobs, I understand, through a grant of employment with a general issue that had a slight back door to it. It's just that societies and the government were carrying the heat and weight there. It was a vast number of public jobs that were created here so that we could just agree that it is the best of things and that the public has a very important role, and to that end, even so. to strengthen the state's income base and do so by ways other than those that include increasing tax burden on remuneration, which, as accepted in the budget of the budget, has been a way of doing something that has taken place during the reign of the State. Secretary of finance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u21	A respectable president. I'm not going to take my compliments back, but we may not be on the same page entirely in this regard. But because I didn't come back earlier, I'd like to mention only the points of my share regarding government support to housing security and the contributions made by rural society in that subject. Then I wanted to encourage you, for it would be closer to the largest rural society in the country, as a pack of whales. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll's control, as well as the city of Reykjavík, had a long - term lack of property and goods, thus making a contribution. It is a source of encouragement rather than an ongoing complaint from the local community, with the highest possible response but the least possible foundation service. It might be there. occasion for what? A senator's concern for the welfare of his people.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u22	A respectable president. I don't think there's much I'm as proud of, or I'm happier with my party as I am with the huge structure of a social facility that has taken place in Reykjavík in recent years under the direction of Dagur Eggertsson. The ones that are either missing are increased stock productions into the system. There's been nothing specific about the distribution there. Yet, it is a gnat that interest groups do not tire out. We can only see in the numbers how social housing has so advanced in the capital area, especially in Reykjavík. We need to keep on doing so. I believe that the government would be used more fully to promote the same structure in all parts of the country, not just with share loans and so on, but with a strong general urban system, which includes the restoration of the workers'farms.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u23	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for his career. All I want to do is come to the parish fees. Because of what? A senator specifically mentioned them, so I would like to point out that a contract was made between state and church 1987 that the state is taking in the collection of these pay, and that is now the state must fulfill its agreements. In addition, it is now the Constitution that the State's authority should support and protect the State Church so that it is perfectly normal for the State to produce a stream of this collection. It is also very important to bear in mind the great psychological, humanitarian, and welfare work that the Church represents throughout the country. In particular, in the country's urban areas, costs are of significant importance. But I wanted to ask you what. One point in his speech about the carbon account was presented to a senator: Is he to feel that the price should be raised even further? How much does he foresee the price to be raised?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u24	A respectable president. It's just happening, and I think more and more people are being united about it - OECD, the International Cash Fund, economists around the world -- that when we live in a market economy based on guards as signaling the price of things and we give the cost of so reasonably free, the carbon cost is one of the most efficient possible measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. But it's very important - and I don't have a magic number here, but according to the indications that have come from both the World Bank and OECD, the fee would have to be considerably higher in Iceland if it should have the influence it could have to do enough to reduce emissions considerably. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] However, in my memory and opinion, it is especially necessary to protect less income groups, e.g. by letting the fee slip into some fund. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u25	The President wishes to remind us of the time limit. When answering time is less than 1 minute, it is good to aim for 1 minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u26	Madam President. Thank you. Senator. I now believe that we should seek to reduce this price. I've always said it's gone up too much. This time, it's only a raise, which is so much that I would have wanted to see that it would be more important. But have a why. A senator studied a report made last year by the Institute of Economics at the University of Iceland on the effects of this currency, especially in the country? It shows that the cost of paying is particularly on less income - rich people as well as on the land. It's a very interesting report that's received far too little attention in my opinion. I'd like to hear a response. As far as it is concerned, how he looks at the report, whether he has studied it, or if it is reasonable that we would try to reduce this fee in stages? In addition, I have concluded that the results of this charge are not sufficiently valid when it comes to the battle against climate.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u27	A respectable president. Indeed, studies show that the price must be reasonably high to produce results, to reduce emissions, so it may not be surprising that the current cost has not been paid much. I haven't read this report since then. A senator refers to, but I agree. In terms of the fact that green taxes must not be brought down, especially from income - bearing groups and from people in the scattered regions. There is a need to take special action, e.g. use the income in some way to make it pay off, what's that, the carbon tax and the dividend. These are ideas that even. has been discussed in OECD's report, taxing carbon use, but then directing the money, such as some kind of burgers, to income groups, even with such a income-related billing system, to something similar.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u28	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the past history of the committee's memory. I agree with those here who have spoken from the Economic and Business Committee that the work and cooperation of the Committee and the discussion have been good, although the nature of the matter may be conflicting views on a number of matters. This does not change the good work of the committee. Hv. A senator, in his late teens and early years, points to a number of things that he feels he can do better. Then I'd like to remind you that in the government Constitution, there is a bill for the work document and bill for changing the law on bankruptcy, i.e. The identification number. I know that's not exactly what the Senator is pointing at here, but I'd like to remind you that these matters are here. But I'd like to ask you why. A senator, because I thought it may be understood in his speech: Does he want to agree or like a system when it comes to senile and disability pensioners? [[The president calls.]] I'd like to discuss this matter further in a second answer, but we'll start with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u29	A respectable president. No, I don't think that the system around people with impaired skills and the system around older people is necessarily the same. What we have stressed in our committee party, however, is that handling pension incomes, which say delayed employment, does not work as well as making employment in a way that differs as in financial dues. In addition, it is a matter of justice that microflocation revenues will finally increase, but it has been in place since 2009. I believe that the early population is about to rise substantially but remains in micropair, especially when there is detailed information on how the river spreads by this increase.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u30	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, and I am glad to hear that the senator does not believe that there is to be the same system for these groups, since they differ. This was shown in the case of a man. A senator, or possibly opposed in the past during the discussion, that the government went in the wrong direction for a pensioner. I must protest that, of course, in 2016, if I recall correctly, the changes in the pension system that resulted in the improvement of all the pensioners who were combined. As a result, the special extensions of the pensioner's pension were completely eliminated. Then, during the last term, the change was made to ensure that those who have no rights in the sensibilities system pay, the people who were actually involved in the development of the rural communities preceded there. I think it's important to be present in the discussion. Of course, it is good and blessed to want to continue and make further adjustments. But I feel that it is important to know what changes have been made and to say that they have been made to improve the quality of the worst, but it certainly has to continue. [[The president calls.]] So I believe the changes proposed to this bandorm are appropriate at this stage of the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u31	A respectable president. I think it's interesting to hear what you're talking about. A senator speaks of changes made in 2016 and actually speaks a little as though they were made by the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. I didn't know that the fusion between the left green and the Independence Party... [[No, no. Change story.]] But now we are discussing the actions of this government, and its priorities in social security are being expressed in a government contract. This is the only thing in the government contract about changing the social security system. The operation for people who have no rights in pension funds is a good price. It's an important procedure, but it doesn't change what I've talked about about the injustice involved in handling employment and postponing jobs in such a different way. The priorities displayed in this financial alliance and in the Treaty of this government are simply unfair to me, especially where it focuses on the highest income of the population and mostly on men rather than women.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u32	A respectable president. I measure here for the adjustment of my proposal to make two points, one to increase the proportion of the bank tax back to what it was two years ago, and the other, that all work will be extended for the next year. I'm going, with President's permission, to recommend here for the proposal for a change in the law of a special tax on a financial firm that would include the restoration of bank tax to what he was for his fall in 2020. With this change, the bank tax would increase from 0.15% to 0.36%, which is what it was for last year's change. I'd like to draw attention to the low percentages involved. We're talking about numbers that don't even get half a percent. The bank tax is now less than 0.2% and will not even reach 0.4%, this proposal will succeed. Can a person who has a lot seriously complain about a tax increase that doesn't reach even half a percent? There are various reasons to suggest that bank tax returns but few recommend that this 61% reduction be allowed, and in fact should increase it much more than is suggested here. One of the main reasons for the growth of bank tax is that banks will limit the cost to society and to consumers in the form of higher interest. They are colored with physical activity and fear, and they do not keep water at a closer examination. First, the fact that the decrease in bank taxes has had no effect on the growth of banks. Their growth rate began in May 2019, long before the bank tax was dropped. It was because of the growth of the Federal Bank and the biographies that the banks began, but reluctantly, to reduce their growth. In this context, it should be noted that in spite of biographies and the increase in the Federal Bank, as well as a 61% decrease in bank tax, their growth rate has not been consistent or proportionate to the decline in the Marine Bank. The reduction in the bank tax has, therefore, resulted in only a smaller amount of money in the state budget of about 6 billion because of this decrease. That must remember less. Despite lower banks, the interest rates back then have been up to 250 percent higher than they should have been, they would have decreased in proportion to the direction of the Secret Bank. This reduction still belongs to the banks, which is good to keep in mind the growing levels they are currently in. Second, it is true that in recent years the banks have yielded a high value. In years of leanness, I wasn't satisfied. On the contrary, after years of fat and well - oiled living, they enjoyed prosperity in the middle of a global epidemic and a global crisis. So they are not on the flow harvest, and they should be able to contribute more to the community than they do without much remembering. This profit, too, is not the result of the tremendous intelligence of financial bankers. Some of the situations that prove that they are the most minor failures are quite numerous, but they have quite extraordinary access to the homes and businesses of the country, as well as to what one government after another has broken down and turned to them in perfect efficiency and observation organizations. It's time for that to change. It is time for us here at the General Assembly, who have been elected for the people of the country to protect their interests, to put the interests of the people ahead of the interests of the banks. The bank tax will have no effect on growth increase or decrease. The banks will grow, no matter what, when they see the least reason for it. Not because of a higher bank tax, but simply because they know they're gonna get away with it and no one's ever asked them to show some small social responsibility. Why not start doing that? Shouldn't we as members of the council, so I don't talk about Iceland's government, ask the bank to show community responsibility in difficult times? Is it not true that when the government is so active with its banks that it repairs laws or bank taxes in this case that the way the banks behave and act, instead of asking them to improve their behavior? Is their irresponsibility really so self - righteous that instead of asking bankers to show community responsibility in action toward the people of the country, rather than milk it? Let us consider some facts: Since collapse the banks have made at least a profit. 960 billion. Apparently, their profits will reach over 1,000 billion by the year or early by the next year. For 900 billion, e.g. For example, a hospital with high - tech technology could be built. Since the bank's receiving new social security numbers, each individual in 360,000 has dropped 2.5 million dollars. At the profit of banks. Arion bank alone paid its shareholders 88 billion to profit this year. At the rate of 360,000 Icelanders, it is more than 244,000. every man-child. Can it really be said that they cannot handle a bank tax of 0.3376%? What is the community responsibility of a bank? Of course, banks are supposed to have social responsibility, but they do not show it in any way and they just get away with it, because no one seems afraid to interfere with it in any way. Homes in the country pay nearly 37% of their income on direct taxes and on top of them are then added indirect taxes, e.g. In the form of a worthwhile tax tax, and they cannot contribute to the cost of paying taxes. But companies that profit tens of millions of dollars at the top of each year, and who have paid their investors tens of billions of dollars for interest only this year, are not going to be able to pay taxes worth less than 17% of their anticipated annual profits without taking it out on their customers. I can't believe that the less experienced person would fall for such nonsense. The bank tax should rightly be much higher than it is recommended, because there, exactly there, are companies that are able to do more than that. Their prosperity is from the people of the land, and shall return to them. It is remarkable that the banks and the financial system show that we really need to discuss whether the banks should pay bank taxes at 0.145% or 0.36% and that we hide behind the fear of their response and actions, we will not be doing their will at all. We need to step out of our effectiveness at the banks, and the General must take the lead in this. To raise the bank tax to what it used to be would be a good first step in that direction. Businesses with tens of millions of dollars each year are to be like others, and in fact, rather than others, to contribute to society. Also, monitoring is to keep track of the costs not to be laid on the companies or homes of the country, either in terms of interest or at any other expense. - Let's cut the capitalism off. Then, everybody wins: The campaign all work was one of the government's Covid operations and was intended to stimulate the economy by promoting increased activity. The procedure includes 100% reimbursement of the value tax of the activity it covers. The decision was to be established in 2021, but the greater part now suggests that it will be extended to the end of August of the next year for housing and until the end of June for vacation homes and other activities, but will fall down at the end of the year due to car repairs. But I would suggest that all the work be determined throughout the next year for all this work; for the gain thereof is great. In this case it is always best to extend some of these resources instead of extend them in part, to reduce the implementation of the project considerably, especially when changing the rules of the worthy taxation divorce in the middle of the year. The campaign all worked in 2009 in 2009,2015, had a positive effect on tax divorces in the article, thus making the wealth of state under the direction of the Industrial Association. When it was canceled, an increased tax charge in the construction industry began to be applied. Regarding the campaign, the president's memo for the Society's Association of Industrial Affairs says: However, the campaign all work in 2009,2015, had a positive effect on tax divorce in the article and thereby on the income of the state's funds. In this context, Skúli Eggert Þórðarson, a former government tax manager, pointed out that by not giving up his job, the buyer would avoid paying 40% of the valuable tax. At that time, the seller of the job can avoid giving up the sale for income tax. But in 100% reimbursement, there is no profit for buyer not to give up a merit tax. This means that the income tax should be increased when the reimbursement is 100%. At the beginning of 2015, the remuneration of cost-employment tax due to industrial work dropped 100% to 60%, by which time the entire work effort had taken since 2009. A year later, i.e. 2016, increased tax collection in the construction industry, where reimbursement applications dropped by a total of 60% at the same time as construction activities increased. During a discussion about tax control and tax research conducted at the General Assembly of February 1, 2016, Secretary Bjarni Benediktsson, stated that the consequences of the demolition of the campaign were negative and did not seem to have been well tested. Similar effects can be expected today. The majority of the Economic and Business Committees suggest that the campaign be partly extended. As early as January 1, this releases annuity for auto repairs, car rights, automobiles, otherwise extended to August 31 as the refund drops to 60% at the end of the year. The people feel that all the efforts have been successful and that it is now needed to make good use of their efforts to overcome unemployment and reduce tax practices. It is always best to extend such measures in all respects instead of extend them in part. And this morning, there was a call for the council from the company of Taliban to extend all jobs. Clearly, in the next year, inflation will become considerable, so many families will be forced to cut their sails and reduce expenses. Thus, many projects, often necessary, are likely to fall apart. Thus, the contracture of industrial workers on maintenance can be expected to not be done. This year's reimbursement would be a source of encouragement to homes that would even be felt, as well as to prevent people from being tempted to buy black jobs to save themselves expenses. All future jobs will benefit both traders and individuals in a time that is predictable for many to suffer. So it is necessary to ensure that the measures taken will be successful for the year as we grow out of the crisis. That's how everyone will work, as always laid out.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u33	Madam President. I want here at 2nd. comes on a few things. On the other hand, I want to criticize, and I want to introduce something that I think would be wise to do. A financial and business committee takes the time to look, especially between 2 and 3. I'm going to start with what's going on with the indepths for linking cars. As we have seen in the discussion, they are expected to fall, as expected, to agree with comparable laws a year ago, on the basis of their annual events, and on the other hand, when 15,000 cars have been reached. Thus, the goal is to speed up the trend that the country's home goes to 100% of electricity cars rather than to take advantage of link cars. In this context, it seems that during recent years a dramatic change has been made in motor vehicles. We are now in what is known as a third-generation contact car, with a common target of about 50,490 miles [80,990 km] on a driving charge. It actually means that most of the daily uses of automobiles are electric for those who want and can, but longer tours are possible on either the fuel or the diesel parts of the machine. That governments will try to speed this development up by this operation will have the negative effect that it is likely that motors will fall out of the equation. In addition to the obvious effect of using electricity to keep driving cars, for example, access trucks have the positive effect of using electrical vehicles, hopefully the next or the next step for each family. So people get used to getting in touch with the car, and it's going to be more supportive, more rapid building of loading stations, and so forth, along the streets of an apartment and a house. But I'm afraid that if we push only 100% electric cars in, it will slow them down. I'd like to refer to some of the data I received from a Grouping Agency in the Village Mass. At that time, 10,315 electrical cars were registered around the country. Most recently, they are all around the capital. Thus, in all the northwest districts, all northeastern and Southern districts, with the exception of the Rhine Peninsula, there are 17.7% of these automobiles. 82.3% are in Reykjavík, the collar, and the Smokebone. I just want to point it out. Congress officials believe that there is a reason for this. It is that the infrastructure is not the same in many parts of the country. For safety, people want to have a link car so that they are secure energy in a car from a fuel or diesel part of a machine, or a fuel or diesel machine. There is something that will not be solved in the days set aside until the end of the year. I think we should just accept a new proposal, which may be between 2 and 3. Environment, extending the project to one year in addition to the current project. It's less than the autochemist has suggested that it is the time that is actually necessary for technology development and system to be ready to take on an increase of 100% electrical vehicles. I think it's also the time that special areas of the country need to make sure the infrastructure is in place to the degree necessary to make this practical. We must not assume in this way that these elements are removed from the solution that is used preferably in most of the country, not by the largest part, but by most of the country. There is some reason why there are only 17.7% of these automobiles, 100% of these cars, reported from Acdéri all over the Westland, Western, Northernland, Eastland, Southland, and all the way to Selefos - I recall that it was the standard, that Selephos and the Western Islands were within the southern count - 17.7%. This is because 100% of the electricity solution is not yet sufficiently secure. In my mind, we're going to put taxation on the import of these vehicles in such a way that the country's settlements result in yet another blow to the total traffic charge, and now is enough. But just for shock, 82.3% of electric cars, like the situation in the village, are in Reykjavík, Kragan, and on the Smokebones Peninsula. I don't think this particular point came up with any opinion within the Committee. I'd like to direct it to the Chairman of Who. The Economic and Business Committee, if any. The director hears me, examines this point specifically because it matters. It is stated in the opinion of a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee, by permission of Presidents, that it is important to focus on energy exchange to increase the growth of clean energy cars and build-in structures due to them to ◯. Let's do it, then let's just do it. We are not doing that with the order change that lies here, not at all. So here, by permission of the President, at the Committee to Refect Agents, more part of the Economic and Business Committee: In addition, the greater part points out that the current pricing system has been authorized by the EFTA (ESA), changes to the provision required for further consultation with the Agency. Then you'll just have that cooperation. This can't be a real problem. There is a lot of government services that can handle this assignment. There can be no problem with extending such a reasonable procedure, a wise approach, the need to talk to one of the kontorits of the EFTA clinic. It's just gonna have to. This is what I'd like to say about linking cars and injuring them at this point. Next time, I'd like to go to Project Everybody's Work. There is no doubt about it, when reviews are considered, if we specifically look at the comments of the Industrial Association, which are the organizations that best recognize the position of the market in the projects that are involuntary to the task everyone works, except for all the homes and rural communities of the country, in accordance with the rules as they are now, that there is some ringy and confusion in this. There are three dates within the year, where parts of the pack fall down in part or in all respects. The reason is probably that it should provide people and businesses with the opportunity to respond. It's just that more and less decisions in the humanitarian sector take a long time. Municipal societies do not shake out smaller projects just so that they run out of date. The Economic and Business Committee will come to mind, such as Here on September 1, 2022, August 31, 2022, January 1, 2022. It is only a matter of January 1. There is little activity in the working days until that part falls out of force. Of course, this should be extended only in the year, in the year 2022, in view of the value of extra taxes and the currency of the entire human working sector, as is simply said to be the plan of the highest level. Secretary of finance, as the above mentioned in the Committee, though I cannot quickly find it. It shows that there are special plans to reevaluate the valuable tax system in connection with monuments in the year 2022. Wouldn't it be wise to finish it? I think it would be far wiser than being here with a bill that has three window days in terms of some coincidence or all incarceration within the year. All of this is completely confusing and completely unnecessary. I haven't seen a changed agent as an agent. paritaprevir A group of people mentioned in their talk just before about extending these coincidences in 2022, but if they are as I heard them to be declared, the Central Party will support these changes in the representative of the people on the Economic and Business Committee. Next, I'd like to go to a set of things that are about to go to a vacation market for those who are paid for pensions. Here's a suggestion that the holiday market leave 1,200,000 bucks. each year up to 2.4 million dollars, so to speak, increases by 100%. That's a good step, but it's too small, or it's going to have to be more. I had a word with the highest. The secretary of finance when the minister recommended this bill and asked if any evaluation was made on the income created by the state funds for these changes, i.e. to contribute to the employment of those who enjoy pensions. The answer came as a surprise to me, but it may not have been, but it had not been evaluated. It is merely an estimate of the figures of expenses, of expenses brought out by government laws on government finance, but public financial laws are reserved for them in this regard to that only one aspect of the money is taken into consideration. It is reserved only for the financial expenses, which are in many respects accountable, but it is not seen in the amount of income that this will bring. It's just that those who go and make money with a job will wear it all under the pillow, there will be no secondary actions or decisions based on increased donations. Of course, it's a complete bullshit, and if there's a problem, it's in that public financial law to calculate this in this way that the law of public finance has to be changed because it's just nonsense. Not taking into account these factors, for the secondary effects, the government fund's receipts for changes like these, distorting the whole picture, and causing us senators to make worse decisions than others. I couldn't hear that this would have been checked to some extent on a financial and business committee, perhaps not at all while the Ministry of finance and the Supreme Court. The minister of finance does not consider this secondary effect to be a reason for consideration. We see this so often during a discussion about bills here at the council. It is not taken into account the secondary effects of legislation, and I restate upon the fact that if it is the case, we look beyond the secondary effects because the law on government finance thus puts matters in our hands, we must change the law or put in a special chapter where these are adrift and dives into them and they are identified outside the framework of public finances, if they are not willing to change that law. A respectable president. This is what I would like to include in this talk. I just want to review at the end that I think we're making a mistake as far as we're trying to defuse the authority of a tax-important vehicle. Wait a minute. The Economic and Business Committee is to review it once between 2 and 3. Um... it would be worth one Mass, even though only for the national palace as it is currently known, with about 100% of electricity cars here on the southwest corner. This is happening, and I want in context of this, too, to mention what's about to be won. The complete collapse of year - to - year reimbursement for car maintenance and work is to occur at the same time as in some strange way, some fear of implementing reasonable procedures that come from Brussels. The situation is so clear that a much higher number of automobiles will remain uncalled for things that have nothing to do with the safety of cars; a much higher proportion of automobiles will remain at the site of observation to date. At the same time, this government thinks it is wise to eliminate this indiscretion. This may have been considered to be a tax standard, the surprising concept of an independent life of financial law based on the law on public financial matters, where the term means anything other than what it is used about today. I want to direct it to what? The Economic and Business Committee, and especially the rest of it, to look into it more readily than is being done in this committee, though you may have responded. paritaprevir The Guðrún Hafsteinsdóttir far better than that of a boy. A senator reviewed much of the committee's opinion. The answers are what we're going to do. The senator showed a far greater understanding of the matter than the committee's opinion. I hope, therefore, that there is one thing I would like to consider, specifically, these three matters I am referring to here and I would like to mention that we representing the Central Party will submit an arrangement where these matters are concerned if there is not any desire to address the views presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u34	President. As you read the bill, it may be easy to forget the big picture when diving into a single centenarian change, a percentage, and indicator figures, an coverage of the host's fees, an application fee, or a currency share of stress stocks. We may not see the forest for the trees in this room when we oppress the individual network of the bill, exchange of opinions on specific changes, or agree to one percentage over others. In the entire mass of numbers flowing through all wells, we must not forget what this whole thing is all about; people, usually Icelanders, affected directly by these changes. The decisions we make here in the days that we will agree before a year's convention will touch the public and the wallet of people. It is in our power to influence what other people have on their hands. So we are under obligation to accept our work on this bill, just as we do other matters, with the survival of people outside these walls, with great seriousness. However, the public funding debate is more than just a basket of cents and money. You see, we also have a lot of moral questions about which pocket to pick up the same amount of change and money. Do members of the council count justifiably that government agencies need to rely on people's plight in order to finance them? Do we want the institutions to stand and fall by the amount of money they manage to collect in the pockets of sick people? Do members of the Parliament consider this to be a normal arrangement for public affairs? The answer seems to be yes, because this is exactly what we are doing. You see, senators have arranged for the highest education institutions of Iceland to rock knowledge, science and informed discussion in Icelandic society, to survive without financing themselves with the gambling machines. Instead of financing Iceland's High School with a general tax system, which is normally shared by the government's will to lay the burden on what is least under it, people with addictive gambling that will be considered to be the widest banks in Icelandic society. Lotter money delivered to lottery machines owned by Iceland's High School of Happiness is used to finance buildings, maintenance, and equipment shops at the university. This money is so important to the university that the head of Happy University of Iceland believes that the school funding foundation would simply fall off if he didn't have the machines. However, this does not make gambling machines morally justified, as the common people are conscious of. Gallup's survey, conducted in May 2020, shows that 86% of the nation's population wants cards to be permanently closed. Iceland's university is not running a slot box in the shelter of nationalities, it's under the shadow of cash gains. This allows governments to survive despite the same scientific community that benefits from this arrangement, knowing exactly what the consequences of gambling are for those seated on the card box and for their partners. The willingness to resolve this is little or no one. I don't understand how it is morally justified that the U.S. Supreme Education Institute has to rely on the financial resources of a slot machine, but the problem is sadly at the General Assembly. The bottom line is that the university needs funding and is searched through machines. Thus, the responsibility of our senators is great. V.E.G. The local minister of education said, at a meeting of the welfare committee in March last, that his Ministry would not oppose the discovery of other means of funding the university. Therefore, I would like to encourage the world of Congress to do just that, look for other ways. In fact, it could be reimbursed that outside church attendance goes to the university or that it is merely advising the university properly in financial matters. But one thing is certain: When it comes to funding the university, we need to think outside the box.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u35	A respectable president. I'd like to recite Old Testaments, which will be late too often regarding contributions from the state fund to the activities of the National Church and other religious and biological institutions. It is not overhistorically said that the financial budget in their interest is the least excessive; it runs for billions of dollars. What scares me this time and causes me to come up here to argue about this one more trip is compared to a case that we, sometimes under the nickname Government Control, tried to get a limited success in the discussion of the more part of our budget and financial plans for the next year, which are involved in terms of health insurance spending. A greater proportion of the Economic and Business Committee contributes to the increase of donations due to application costs, although it is claimed, in fact, that there is no rise, but only a raise in the price of the previous law. This is correct in a sense, but it is wrong in the sense that the increase determined on a committee last year was to respond to the complaint of the National Church that it had carried a sharp object from the table with the reference to a law that contributions to parishes should be based on a change in the average tax base of individuals. The majority of this increase is masked as a simple increase in prices. I'm not here to argue about crowns and pennies, although I would like to be impressed by the fact that contributions to these matters are still raised despite the loud criticism and tip of the injustice involved in the arrangement. It is once again falsely claimed that the government funds play a role in some sort of body of remuneration for application fees, i.e. the social fees of a religious and biological partner, of course not that there is a collection of social fees on behalf of the church or other religions, but, above all, the law forbids the particular distribution from a government fund to religion each year. If this is the best case because a government fund is paid for each registered person, 16 years of age and older, regardless of whether the person pays income taxes or not. There is no type of nose tax or collection involved in these donations. This has been pointed many times, but still, nonsense is said. The simplest solution to this point would, of course, be that the church would be in charge of collections of parishes and other religious and biological institutions for its own purposes, but this kind of arrangement would probably not be acceptable to the church, since a person is wondering about the number of registered persons from 16 years of age would happily pay about 20,000 dollars. every year on social expenses, which is about what they would be required to pay on the claim of the National Church. No doubt someone would, but it may be likely that there would be no number of donations that today will form the basis of a trust fund made by the churches and other religions. What I would like to compare today is this amount of money, but according to the annex to the budget now, contributions for the next year to these accounts of about 6 billion. The amount required for the reduction of the section here at Congress in connection with the payment of the State Fund at the psychological cost of the inhabitants of this country was 900 million. If that was the case, the government groups could not agree, but by military force and some toughness, I must say, we managed to dissect that I think about 250 million at the end of the day. So much of it isn't prepared to pay 900 million to enforce their own law on the need for psychological costs to be paid for health insurance, but it's prepared to pay every year the rising rate of religious and biological costs, including ............................................................................................................................... It is natural to think that while the church thinks it is open to all, people will not seek it if they feel that they are not supported on the right grounds there. So there is obvious discrimination. What really hurts me is that this is a matter of disregarding a law approved here at a council that is in effect but instead of accepting contributions on donations that have some place to serve the same purpose, and it can be debated whether they do so or not, with extremely questionable reasoning support and on questionable grounds.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u36	A respectable president. Hv. 11th. Smoke. As a result, the charges are addressed and amazed that they are actually standing in their place. I'd like to point my tail. A senator is expected to set up the total number of charges since 2009, during the economic collapse, beginning with the decline of interest costs, approaching 20 billion. However, at the same time, during this number of years, more and more people have been directed to the church for any assistance, whether it is financial support, food support, psychological care, or anything else. I felt that the activities of the church were slighted here, for there are few institutions with such a dense network of operations around the country and who take care of all, and then I mean everybody; all can approach our National Church of Iceland, no matter what religions of the people. It's very important that we remind ourselves that Iceland's National Church never asks for religious gain from those who come and accept its services. I am confident that the State can perform as much service as the nations do in the most practical way possible. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u37	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his answer and good points. It was certainly not my intention to minimize the church's work, and I will be late to do so, even though I have a heartfelt disagreement because it stands open to all persons in all respects, whether because of her decision or because of her stand or simply because of the message behind the service given there, regardless of their intentions. I'd like to ask myself, " Is the reason why few institutions or other people render service across the country and the church possibly because they and they don't get billions of dollars each year from financial laws? ' I also wanted to add to the fact that a public service rendered by the State is in the name of religion and this arrangement that we have today requires it, for example. that the state, in its own sense, keeps an eye on the registration of human life, which reminds us of the ways in which we avoid comparing ourselves to where the religion of people is written on IDs.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u38	A respectable president. I agree with what. 11th. Reykv.. such as that there is freedom of worship in the land and anyone can practice that religion or be a member of the religion he wants to be. And it is important to do so. It was so that the church itself collected its attendance fees. Then they recorded something called nasal tax, and it was passed on to the law. Accounts were fixed in law 1987; charges were passed on as a percentage of income tax collections and collected similar to those sent out and returned to rural society, thereby resulting in church parishes. I'm not going to blow my mouth at what? A senator on what activity is being granted, but I restitute that no one else has such a safety net for the people of the country as well as for the nations. And I would also like to mention that the churches of the land are going to keep to the deeds to which they should live. The Kingdom has appeased an enormous number of churches, and this brings certain responsibilities. But the past few years have been so that these houses cannot be painted or kept warm or kept warm. Yet, they are part of our culture, no matter how it is viewed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u39	A respectable president. In this regard, we certainly find many points that require a much longer speech period than two minutes at a time. There are a lot of big questions, including. Whether there is a time error in the country must be as many churches built as you can see. I think it's interesting. I've heard the evidence in the past that the church is having a hard time maintaining its own buildings. Then you wonder if there are no other ways to finance it. This raises questions related to the dozens if not hundreds of billions of dollars that the State has over the years paid for a land originally owned by the church, which is surprising if all these funds fail to paint churches on the land. It is a larger question than that, to feel that it is answered by the amount of money paid through parish pay or other contributions from the State to the church, why this is the case. Perhaps it would be appropriate to evaluate why these funds are so spent. We're talking about 6 billion when the government is not counting on 900,000 to meet its own laws on the subsidies of psychology costs.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u40	President. Here earlier this morning, you said why. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson, for the opinion of my share of the Economic and Business Committee, considered several things that I consider a reason to reiterate in this brief talk. It is tempting to make decisions as to how the citizens are willing to respond. The lines of reasoning are usually good, the subjects are frequently good, and the procedure is often part of some kind of support to a narrow group. It is often forgotten, though, that there is a lack of the benefits or benefits of the benefits of the discussion, which, of course, is the view of the public taxpayers in this country. Therefore, there is reason to review the suggestions of the smaller section in this light and to speak with caution, which is usually forgotten when making decisions like these. I'm going to address two factors involved in the implementation of the measures proposed in this minority and two measures proposed to improve the interests of the population of those whose feet are fixed. The two suggestions I would like to mention are one of the less suggestions for completing the effort. According to the Committee's work, the evaluation of the financial and economic services of the procedure was generally seen as support for a work programme that did not experience any job shortage, on the contrary, had more work to play than it was capable, which, of course, is positive and good, but as a result, this operation would be floundering. Here may be an action that is easy to support and a little difficult to resist in view of the fact that the group that benefits from it is around us, industrialists, and those who buy their services, while those who suffer the negative effects that are vague and some future time, are those who suffer setbacks because of thawing in Icelandic society. I mentioned in a talk the other day that there is one professional road in Iceland that is in a lot of trouble. It's the professional way, and it's fine. This variety of employment is very desirable for the Icelandic economy, but it may not be quite enough. However, few other jobs, at least a few jobs in the export sector in Iceland, are more sensitive to economic and thawing and this very article, another. The reason that the smaller part contributed to the loss of this effort, all work, is precisely because it has an uncertainty but potentially substantial negative result. It simply brings up the situation that as representatives of the common people, we need to consider the interests of the many in excess of the interests of the few. The other thing. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson made a subject of his presentation of the minority opinion as a form of income contributions. There I would especially like to mention hunting expenses. There is no change in them in this fine code of law here before the General, but it should have been mine. International institutions have repeatedly pointed out that the construction of resource costs is an ideal means of making money for countries so fortunate as to have access to resources. This is because if they are intelligent and moderate, they have no negative impact on economic activities, as is true of nearly all other government revenues. In fact, the resource expenditure may be said to include the environmental expenditures of a number of different categories. So it is unfortunate to see that there are no suggestions for improving the system that is so obvious. In this context, the Icelanders no longer have any special value in this payment. Many nations around us have picked it up, including the Greenlands and the Faeroe Islands. In this context, we are now facing one of the best furrows that have seen for a long time. The hairy stock is a share that we share, including With Greenlanders, in fact, the owners of the Greenlandese companies have many Icelandic roots, so these fleets are in the same resource and, to some extent, from the same sources. Surprisingly so much now that if greenish fishing fees were used to calculate Iceland's fishing fees, the Icelandic government's estimate of the fishing costs would be 2 billion dollars, but not 0k. Then I'd like to consider just two provisions that are in the minority opinion. One involves the equation of voluntary income and money from the pension system on the other. The political process is most vulnerable to decision - making when a small group of people with narrow interests pursue their interests because the interests of the many are so weak that they often fail to look after them. Sadly, though, the equal appeal made by most parts seems to be burned. It embraces a very narrow group, while it is evident that the many are in the same condition and in many cases with very limited incomes. The same extent is burned to some extent in the implementation of the income tax system criteria. The reduction in the share is suggested by this criteria to adhere to pay development, since remuneration reflects much more fully the development of social development than the random chosen 1% production increase. Like what? paritaprevir Jóhann Páll went along with his talk, describing 1% of the growth in the production of any ambitions of the Icelandic government on behalf of the Icelandic economy but is also completely unrealistic when historical data are examined. In particular, though, there is reason to support a case. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll's view of pay development as a more reasonable standard. In the end, pay depends on supply and demand, but also on the quality of working force. In fact, in an open European labour market, the quality should be of prime importance. Thus, pay development should reflect quite a bit of evolution. It has to be said as it is that it is surprising that the use of pay development was no longer a guide for the development of the income tax system into the future rather than a random, rather ambitious plan for 1% products.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u41	A respectable president. It is happy that environmental and climate issues are priorities in the Treaty and that most of us here agree that these are the biggest problems of our time. In this room, most of us agree to follow science when it comes to describing and considering the problem, but when it comes to solving the problem and funding it is like science, and the right figures just don't matter at all. The government's decision to reduce 55% of greenhouse gas emissions would be a cause for joy if Iceland's total emissions were being taken into consideration. This 55% depends on the emissions of direct government responsibilities, which are only about a fifth of Iceland's emissions. A respectable president. It seems odd to me that the government does not introduce people when they announce that we are going to be a global leader in climate matters. With total emissions in view, it is clear that we do not achieve that objective, especially in view of the fact that this bill is only expected for a billion dollars. increase compared to 12 billion dollars. last year. To fulfill that promise, you must continue to follow science and finance projects. One way to finance these measures is to raise the carbon tax, but an increase in the current budget is not expected. In the last term, the tax system has to be made up of green taxes, which was part of the government's operation program, which was canceled without solid reasoning. There is nothing that stands in the way that the government can record it now and I would really like to encourage the committee to take it back up again. Some may ask, " Why do taxes rather than encourage others? ' Yes, for pollution costs society tremendously in the form of environmental threats, ill health, and human life, all very expensive for the health and economy. Thus, those who are contaminated should have to participate in these costs. More than 3,500 major economists in the United States, including 28 Nobel laureates, from all sides of the political world, have signed a conclusion and in Article 1. It says that carbon pollution tax is the most effective way to reduce emissions. This is not to expand the scope or intervention of the State, which is clearly stated there, but to correct this major market failure caused by climate change. The economists also say that this will send a strong message to the market and, therefore, work with the market elements to achieve green innovations in the direction of a non-carbonized future. The bill expects a 2.5% increase in carbon costs, while the index price for consumers has increased by 4% and fuel prices are accompanied by an increase. That's why it's actually a reduction in the carbon bill. This is what I think, a respectable president, is once again strange in view of the big problem. We need to move forward now. When it comes to solving the problem, you need to continue following science and numbers. I would like to suggest that the Economic and Business Committee alters this and that the carbon will be raised considerably more than an increase in the index price and in line with what the World Bank accounts for. Like what? paritaprevir Þórarinsson's fields mention them as being equal in this payment, and I want to thank for his input, and I'm glad that members of the Parliament are considering climate equals. But this is exactly the purpose of a carbon tax, that is to go down to the highest level of pollution, which are the largest in income - priced groups, and go into either payment or climate surgery. There we can look to our neighbors in the North countries, e.g. Norway, which has the NOx Fund and finances climate operations via carbon tax. The fact that people in the country have to drive more and pay more taxes is worth mentioning and thanking, which should just encourage more investments in environmental transport and public transport with carbon tax, which can be added in the country. The World Cash Fund says that it needs to be raised in Iceland two or three times and clearly explains where it goes in order to reach its goal. It is understandable that members of Congress are now criticizing it, but the World Bank has already said that in order for the tax to achieve its objective, it needs to be raised and clearly explained where to go, to achieve transparency and equality. As a whole, it is clear that green investments need to be increased and the scientific judgment of the United Nations Commission is that in climate and green structure, 4% of the land productions are to be put away. However, if the estimated cost of climate in 2020 is compared to the GDP of Iceland of 2019, it is only equivalent to 0.4%. So we're ten times behind. The European Union in its green package is investing 2%, which I think is the least possible for Iceland if we really intend to be a global leader in climate matters. Once again, the figures contradict these remarkable promises. This is a very strange situation, if I may say so, that a year ago it was called out in the East after climate strikes and real climate action, receiving declarations of radical action from the government and then seeing this financial bill. Was it just a form of election, or was it some kind of fun show or green laundry? To achieve these noble goals, I need to follow them in financial terms and hope that in this section there is an agreement to raise the carbon tax, which is the solution that scientists on both sides of the politics can accept and have shown to be a fortress in the North countries. This is a very interesting time that my generation has had to grow up with, two crabs at the same time, but, in my opinion, we've learned the lesson from the trial cases. You must look a little further ahead than just close the next Covid wave, to the end of the next quarter or to the end of the next terms. To offer a stable offer in Icelandic politics and in a financial bill no longer means to find the lowest compatible and slow down. No, we'll miss the interest and tools that are waiting for us. If we just got the nerve to look forward. Sadly, there are many others who need to begin to cope with economic inexorably, ecology degradation, world epidemics, increase in environmental refugees, and economic inequities. Therefore, we need to turn the defence into a climate attack, and we start by ensuring the funding of action.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u42	A respectable president. I hereby recommend the Committee for Economic and Business Commission's Committee on Elements to legalize various tax and tax laws. This is 4th case. At this point, the committee stands, Guðrún Hafsteinsdóttir, president of the Economic and Business Committee, Ágúst Bjarni Garðarsson, Hafn Hafsteinsdóttir Mersteindótir, Steinunn Þóra of the Year's Árnadóttir, and Diljá Mist Einarsdóttir's daughter. I'd like to thank the Committee for a good and perfunctory cooperation with the Committee on the matter. As mentioned in the Committee opinion, the Commission was invited to meet with a party from the Taxes and the Ministry of Economics and Economics. There were reviews from the International Habits and the Skatti, as well as a financial and economic memo. The bill contains conditions for the registration of lawgivers in the public goods record including the that under conditions there is a need for annual bills to be returned to the head of the tax and that taxes, charges, or reports are not missed. The committee agrees with the viewpoints presented in the opinion and suggests that adjustments are made. With a 15. The bill is suggested that temporary tax appeals due to the renting of eco-friendly vehicles prescribed for temporary XXXIX law on money taxes be made available in order not only to the landlord's own but also to pay the rent on automobiles and rent-ins. The Ministry's memo to the Committee suggests that further adjustments in the provision will be made so that the requirements of appeals are excluded, based on the premeditation of vehicles on the basis of the provision for temporary XXIV legislation. Is this the purpose of this policy, however, that parking rents and financing workers will be able to use coincidences to temporarily use XXXIX due to eco-friendly automobiles, despite the fact that the duration of injury due to them according to the provision of temporary XXIV has expired. As a result, it is more consistent with the purpose of the law to facilitate transport energy exchange. The Commission agrees with the Ministry's proposal, referred to what is stated in the memo, and suggests a change in Article 15. The bill for that. The Ministry's memo is suggested to add a new provision temporarily to a set of suitable taxes to be allowed to set up the requirements for remuneration of the valuable tax paid on the import or first sale of new air vehicles, motors, or air polls that use electricity or hydrogen as energy sources during January 1, 2022 through 31 December 2027. A similar provision for provisional development was given in the bill of transport and rural administration to a new overall layer of air travel proposed to the last legislation panel but failed to succeed. The memo says that such reimbursement of the valuable tax may include government support in the sense of 61st. The European Economic Area Convention, as per law No. 2/1993. While there are certain exceptions from the general ban on government support which can be especially appropriate if it is thought that the positive influence of the community's assistance can outweigh the issue of competition. It is, in fact, there. Refer to EFTA decision made on 7 July 2021 of the national taxable wills due to an eco-friendly vehicle. The Ministry suggests that, having agreed with the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs, with reference to government policy on global energy exchange in Iceland and a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, the stated provision for temporary addition of a law on the value tax. The committee agrees with that viewpoint and suggests IV. section of the bill will add an article on the fact that new provisional regulations are included in the terms of value tax on the above-mentioned topic. In addition, the Commission gives an explanation in the Ministry memo as well as in a paper with the above bill for the restoration of air travel proposed by the secretary of transportation and the local government to the last council. A set of temporary XVIII regulations on the provision of road vehicles, fuel, etc., indicates the calculation of the product tax from RVs. The directive was added to the legislation as suggested by a greater proportion of the current Economic and Business Committee, as per the European Commission's opinion of a 450th case at the 150th legislation panel to deal with the situation of RVs following major changes in the application of product stress charges due to changes in emissions measurements. The committee noted that this issue was proposed as a temporary solution until a permanent solution was found. Since then, the exception has been extended once and is still out the same year. The Ministry's memo to the Committee says that there is no permanent solution and that it is therefore appropriate to submit an extension of the proposed regulations. The Commission agrees with this and believes that it is correct to believe that the time required for temporary XVIII in law No. 29/1993 will be extended by one year. In the 18th. indicate changes in automobile charge laws are involved in the carbon dioxide emissions target of driving vehicles and driving criteria and the ratio ratios to the calculation of the car tax. In the treatment of the bill in Article 3 of the current council, the Commission received a memo from the Department of Professional Roads and Developments, where it is requested by the Committee that at the bill there is an addition of the regulations for the change in agricultural products, No. 99/1993. They suggest that these laws include temporary extension of the period in 2022 that marks lower imports on certain types of vegetables. According to the Ministry's memo, the period suggested is in line with the proposals of Iceland's Farmers Association and the employment community. The change is aimed at ensuring a sufficient benefit for consumers, preventing shortage, and reducing the likelihood of temporary increases due to pressure on toll when foreign goods are insufficient. The majority agree with the Ministry's proposal to respond to the situation by provisional regulations against agricultural legislation and suggest that the new section of the material be added to the bill under consideration. Other changes that the greater part suggests are technical and are not meant to have material influence. According to the above, the greater part contributes to the approval of the bill by the changes proposed in a special Senate document.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u43	Madam President. I hereby recommend the Committee for Economic and Business Affairs in case of No. 5 on bill to correct various taxes and fees, car fees, oil and miles tax, road fares, fuels, etc. The opinion of the committee stands for the entire economic and business committee. I'd like to thank the Committee for your good work and business. As mentioned in the Committee opinion, the Commission was contacted by a member of the Department of Economic and Economic Associations and Trade and Service. The committee received a review from the Skatti. The comments and comments were very helpful, and they were very useful in reviewing the details of the bill, what might be considered, and how much more so. The changes discussed are about simplifying the collection of taxes on vehicles. It is then suggested that there be a law order to reduce the entrance of professional observation centres and the Association for Follow-up and collecting taxes on vehicles. The agreements had been in force since 1998 and were considered as a child of their time, and not in accordance with the view given to the law on public finance, the law on collecting public pay, and the aim of the government in recent years on the effectiveness of public taxes, and the paying of pay. First of the change in automobile law. With a b- team 1st par. the bill is assumed to be that, following the tenant exchange of the head of the state taxpayer's repayment and reimbursement on the basis of its seller's car fees, in proportion to the remainder of the period of remuneration at the time of tenant exchange, while collecting for the remainder of the buyer's share. The report of the IRS highlights the importance of no doubting the timeliness and adequate understanding of the times. It would be preferable that the reimbursement of the car tax and reimbursement should be reimbursed when paying a paid price should be determined by the registration of owners for a driver's license. The Commission agrees with these views, and having agreed with the Ministry of Economics and Economics, it suggests a change in its content. Then change the oil tax laws and miles. The report of the IRS suggests some changes aimed at increasing clarity and harmony. The role of the road was expected to be parallel to the professional laboratorys and tolls, even though it had a role at a lecture in cases where there is a high distance to the nearest checkpoint. In addition, the IRS shows that it would be preferable to maintain harmony in the use of the term and to refer it only to a calculus, but not also to a six - kilometer scale. At the end of a reading period of a mile [a km] tax rate and a special mile [a km] tax system, both motorized vehicles and motor vehicles, which have been used electronically. For the proposed change in 3 mg. 14th par. According to the law, the tax returns to the normal opinion that in the case of a vehicle being transferred to a reading period and, in cases where reading is made electronically out of the reading period, the same effect is the same. Finally, the tax is considered to be a reason for change in regard to delay following announcement of the planned change in a mile tax or a special mile tax law. This will be a 15-day delay from the date of the notification and not the mailing. The Commission agrees with the views presented in the tax reviews and agrees with the financial and economic authorities for the changes in the product. In other matters related to professional observation centres, however, the Commission supports in other respects the subject of the bill, but it shows that if a bill is still required by the law in a scientific department to care for the collections of other fees, such as traffic security costs, cr. 1.mg. Section 12. Court of Transportation, Transport Administration, and Administrative Remuneration, cr. 74. g. traffic song. In view of the Commission's opinion, it is appropriate that financial and economic ministers, in collaboration with the secretary of law, also review in view of the laws on public finance and the law on collecting public pay and in view of the government's objectives on the effectiveness of public pay. In view of the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes provided by the Committee's Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u44	Madam President. I hereby recommend the Committee for Economic and Business Affairs in case of No. 139, bill to legalize the switch to income tax laws, No. 90/2003 (containment). With the opinion of the committee, the entire economy is a business committee and I want to thank the Committee for the good work and business in this case. As mentioned in the Committee, the Commission was given a meeting of members from the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs and received reviews of the case from KPMG and Deloitte. The bill has a list of changes to 55 st. Law on income taxes, No. 90/2003, which aims at providing partners in the EEA or in the Faeroe Islands located here on a national taxation and, on the other hand, allowing local Mothers to request a limited taxation with their company registered within the EU or the Faeroe Islands to be met by all the general conditions of the corresponding taxation. The bill responds to EFTA's comments on partner balance and the use of the post-releasure loss. As per Article 4 of Council 151, the issue of 269 of the 150th and 433th matters of the 149th Council has been proposed in part before the last three legislatures, but not reached. The bill here for treatment is intended to include no other factors than those directly intended to meet the observations of the EFTA Agency. KPMG's comments on the subject are in accordance with the issues discussed in the terms of government consultation on October 1. Based on the review of the review in a review of a paper with the bill as well as the Ministry's findings on a consultation guide, as per case 182/2021 in the portal. It may be noted that the bill is merely to address the comments of the EFTA monitoring centre, but not to take into account a partner's balance to make a reexamination. However, KPMG's comments may provide reasons for such a review, and they encourage the Commission to take into account the need for the job, requiring thought-control and more extensive consultations. The same is true of Deloitte's comments to the Committee, which include her comments. until the subject of the bill is generally improved, and the bill contains positive steps, even though they can do better. The committee suggests technical adjustments to the bill, which is not meant to have material influence. According to the above, the Commission suggests that the bill will be accepted with the changes made by the members of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u45	Madam President. I hereby recommend the Committee for Economic and Business Affairs in case of No. 164, the bill to correct a financial change law and key information legislation on certain investors investment products ( fiscal guidelines and key information documents). As mentioned in the Committee opinion, the Commission was contacted by sources of financial and economic organizations and financial organizations. The committee received reviews from the Associations of financial companies and Iceland's Penitentiary as well as a memo from the Ministry of Economics and Economics. The bill suggests changes in financial indicators to avoid uncertainty about what will replace the index that will be released after the end of 2021. Then the bill is proposed to be extended until the end of the year 2022, not from investment information legislation. These changes reflect recent changes in European types on which the law is based. On Commission coverage and change proposals, Article 3 of this publication. The bill: The review of the Association of financial companies is requested to provide access to Article 3. the bill, to add growth to a head chair more than every 12 months, will be generally applied when it is needed to reflect the active growth of growth criteria that are agreed on by a contract, but will not limit the interest criteria that replace the growth criteria that are laid down or unacceptable. In view of the greater part, it may be difficult for an Icelandic financial firm to support new international interest markets based on daily growth in contracts over one day. Adds the extra item to change the provision to allow growth to be added to the head chair more than every 12 months if needed to reflect active growth criteria. The report by Iceland's Office to the Committee notes that Article 3 can be interpreted. the bill in the way that growth is added to a head chair more than once a year if a contract is based on growth criteria that replaces or becomes unusable, even if it is a new agreement rather than a previous agreement based on a growth criterion, which will be unusable or unattracted. The Ministry's memo to the Committee agrees with the tip of the U.S. Bank. As noted above, the greater part contributes to a change in the arrangement, making sure that its interpretation is unconvinced. This suggests that the greater part contributes to a change in the name of the bill, which does not have material influence. In the above, the more part contributes to the approval of the bill by means of the changes made by the members of the Committee. Under the heading, write why. Councilmen of Ágúst Bjarni Garðarsson, Hrönn Hafsteinsdóttir, Ásldur Ásthildur Þórsdóttir, Daði the son of Kristófersson, Mist Einarsdóttir, Shernán the Merstein daughter, and Steinunn, the Þóra of the Árnadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u46	Madam President. I'm here to recommend a committee party from whence. The Foreign Affairs Commission for a proposal for interpretation of the decision made by the European Commission No. 388/2021 of the change in IX. Annex (System Service) to the EEA Convention. The committee has discussed the matter. The Parliamentary resolution of this proposal will confirm the decision made by the joint EEA Committee No. 388/2021 of December 10, 2021 of the change in IX. Annex (System Service) to the EEA Convention on May 2, 1992, and enter the Member State Regulation of the European Parliament and Council (EU) 2021/168 from February 10 February 2021 on the change in Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 to the specified criteria for the temporaryisation of third countries and the nomineibility criteria to be suspended and change of Regulation (EU) No. 6482/2012, Commission Regulation (EU) 202/1847 of 14 October 2021 on the definition of legislation to receive specific versions of CHF LIBOR growth, i.e. LIBOR growths of Swiss francs, and the Commission's implementation protocol (EU) 2021/1848 from 21 October 2021 of the definition of cross-country growth in euro. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 7. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted. The Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir was absent from the case, but he signed this opinion in line with 2 mgr. Twenty-nine. Congress. Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson was absent from the case. This is in accordance with the opinion of Rafn Rafen Ólafsson, an officer of the Committee. Under the heading, they're writing a letter on the subject. State Department, huh? Councilmen: President Bjarni Jónsson, Chairman of Njáll Friðbertsson, Birggirnsson, Diljá Mist Einarsdóttir, Logi Einarsson, Frímann Magnússon Jóhann Friðriksson, and Þordor Þorgerður K.'s Gunnarsdóttir. [Note. This is a story for members of a committee party in the 165th language; see the figure. 191.]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u47	Madam President. I'd like to recommend a committee party. Foreign Directorial Committee with a hearing of a proposal for Congress resolution on the determination of the joint EEA Committee for a change of II. Annex and Protocol 37 to the EEA Convention ( Pills). The committee has discussed the matter. By the Parliamentary resolution of this proposal, Allallis's sources are looking for confirmation of the decision made by the joint EEA Committee on the Change of II. Annex (Interesting regulations, standards, testing and certification) along with book 37 (which contains the file specified in 101. g.) to the EEA contract from May 2, 1992 and enter the contract of the following types: 1st European Parliament and Council Regulation (EU) 2019/5 of December 11, 2018, of the review of Regulation (EC) No 37/2010: 726/2004 on the Community case management of human and animal treatment options and monitoring of these medicinal products and on the establishment of the European Medicines Agency for the variation of Regulation (EC) No 37/2010. 1901/2006 on medicinal products for paediatric patients and on Directive 2001/83/EC for the Human Compatibility of medicinal products. 2. The European Parliament and Council Regulation (EU) 2019/6 of December 11, 2018, for animal treatment and for the deletion of Directive 2001/82/EC (the animal protocol). The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 7. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. The Commission suggests a change in the number of decisions made by the joint EEA committee in the motion and the headline of the case. The Commission suggests that the proposal will be agreed with the following changes: a. Following the statement "Environment of the European Commission's joint committee's 1st case. Question: No. 371/2021. b. The headline is as follows: Suggesting for interpretation of the decision made by the joint EEA Committee No. 371/2021 of change in II. Annex (Interesting regulations, standards, testing and certification) and Protocol 37 (which contains the file set out in 101. g.) to the EEA Convention ( Pills). The Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir was absent from the case, but he signed this opinion in line with 2 mgr. Twenty-nine. Congress. Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson was absent from the case. Under the heading, write why. Foreign Committee members: President Bjarni Jónsson, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson Jóðsson, Birgir Þórarinsson, Mist Einarsdóttir Einarsdót, Logi Einarsson, Jakob Frímann Magnússon, Jóhann Friðrik Friðriksson, Þorgerður K. Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u48	Madam President. I would like to recommend a board of committees to the highest level. The State Department of Change Directive for a synopsis resolution of the decision made by the Joint EEA on the Change of IX. Annex (System Service) to the EEA Convention (recommence of Penalties). The committee has discussed the matter. The proposal will verify the determination of the joint EEA committee for a change in IX. Annex (Subject Service) to the EEA Convention on May 2, 1992, bringing in the contract of the Commission Regulation and Council Regulation (EU) 2021/337 of February 16 February 2021 for the change in Regulation (EU) 2017/11229 for the EU-refundation and targeted adjustments for the budgetary and Directive 2004/109/EC for the use of the common electronic reporting format for annual accounts, to help restore in the following the Covid-19 risk issues. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 7. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. The Commission suggests a change in the number of decisions made by the joint EEA committee in the motion and the headline of the case. The Commission suggests that the proposal will be agreed with the following changes: a. Following the statement "Environment of the European Commission's joint committee's 1st case. Question: No. 384/2021. b. The headline is as follows: Suggesting for interpretation of the decision made by the joint EEA Committee No. 384/2021 of the change in IX. Annex (System Service) to the EEA Convention (recommence of Penalties). The Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir was absent from the case, but he signed this opinion in line with 2 mgr. 29 mg. Congress. Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson was absent from the case. This is in accordance with the opinion of Rafn Rafen Ólafsson, an officer of the Committee. Under the highest opinion. State Director Bjarni Jónsson, Special Trausti Friðert Friðbertsson, Þórarinsson, Mist Einarsdóttir Einarsdót, Logi Einarsson, Jakob Frímann Magnússon, Jóhann Friðrik Friðriksson, and the Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir. [Note. This is a story for members of a committee party in 152 language; see the figure. 193.]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u49	Madam President. I hereby recommend a proposal for Congress resolution of a contract between Iceland and the Faeroe Islands for Fishing in the United States in 2022. The committee has discussed the matter. So here we have a fishing contract between Iceland and the Faeroe Islands for the coming years. This contract is based on historic tradition. It is an important part of Icelandic fishing soil, which has been made each year for decades and is built on old marrow. This is the same kind of contract as last year and the same points as last. It is important to be able to start a new year with the contract and the figures here are very similar to the last one. This suggests a search of the Allied warrant for a contract between Iceland and England's Faeroe for fishing in Iceland and on December 9, 2021. The contract requires permission of parties to fish seafood in each other's legal history in 2022. It allows for a mutual warrant for each of the parties to fish the carbons and the Norwegian-islen fjords within the rest of the jurisdiction of the year 2022. Icelandic ships are authorized to fish on as many as 1,300 trains of mackerel in sophisticated jurisdiction during the year 2022, and the content of the Convention agrees with the agreement held before 2021, as stated earlier. The treaty has reached final significance when it has been announced that the administrative conditions of each country have been met. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted. The Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir was absent from the case, but he signed this opinion in line with 2 mgr. Twenty-nine. Parliamentary law. Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson was absent from the case. The Gísli Ólafsson is an officer on the committee who supports us. It's under the heading "Why." Senators at once. Foreign Committee: Director Bjarni Jónsson, Chairman Birgir Þórarinsson of History, Njáll Friðbertsson, Mist Einarsdóttir Einarsdótt, Logi Einarsson, Frímann Friðrik Friðriksson, and Þorgerður K. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u50	A respectable president. I present a committee opinion with a bill-changing motion to correct the changing of various laws, the extension of temporary warrants. The nominee comes from what? A top-of-the-art Board of Education. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by members of the Ministry of Justice. The bill is suggested to extend temporary access to local, police, and courts, which remain unchanged on December 31, 2021, to employ electronic solutions and telecommunications in certain cases. With law No. 32/2020, on the change in various laws to allow extension and electronic management of county and courts, were adopted temporarily to respond to the effects of the Prepandemic crown virus on certain government and tribunal projects, enabling them to further apply electronic solutions to judicial procedures. The time of the source was extended by law No. 121/2020, about changing the law of a pandemic crown virus, extension of temporary clearances. The bill is now reassigning its sources to the end of 2024. At the same time, it is suggested in the bill to extend temporary privileges for the National Rights to have a residence outside of Reykjavík, parr. Section 3. track No. 10/2017, No. 50/2016, with subsequent changes (named as judges' qualifications, residence of the National Court). Since his appointment, the Court has established a permanent home for the court. The management of the case with the Committee discussed whether the provisional privileges the bill provides for electronic solutions and electronic management of courts and governments should be permanent. The committee believes that it is important to ensure that the temporary sources prescribed for the bill do not fail. Although this temporary record has been provided to ensure that legal tasks and to prevent criminal damage in the light of circumstances due to the spread of the crown virus, it is important to build on that experience and not to go back to previous execution regardless of what the development of the pandemic will be in the years to come. Thus, the Committee stresses the need to investigate whether or not the necessary legal adjustment can be made to introduce permanent documents to the county office, police and court to use electronic solutions where it is possible to improve services. The committee noted that such changes have already begun. However, such a review of legislation and induction takes time. However, many factors need to be considered, and especially to ensure security from sharing and saving data. The Commission suggests that temporary permissions to apply electronic solutions will be extended year by year shorter than expected in the bill, i.e. until the end of 2023, on the basis of the time to complete work that is already started through the introduction of lasting sources to use electronic solutions for police, county and courts. The Commission will pay attention to this work and, in turn, will call for information on its progress before the end of 2022. The committee also suggests one technical adjustment of the bill's headline to explain its contents. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: 1st Instead of the annual year, ◯2024 in 1,◯4 par. Come on: 2023. 2. The bill's headline is as follows: Cells to correct the change in various laws to extend the time of temporary decisions on electronic management etc. Under this heading, write why. paritaprevir Brutísdóri Haraldsdóttir Olaon, president of the Committee, and executive of the case, Kristínardóttir Anna Kristirdótir's daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, Bergþór Ólason, Birggis the Ármannsson of Þórarinsson, Eyjólfur, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Skúladóttir, Lilja Sigurgeirsdóttir Sigrgeir, and Logi Einarsson. Hv. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson, an officer of the hearing, agrees with this. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u51	Madam President. Happy Thanksgiving. What a privilege it is for me to stand in the public speaking chair! I was proud to sign a vow last week when I sat here at the General Assembly. A good woman showed me that the word "word " may well describe the differences between the sexes and their roles. For everyone's good, we're getting way past today on equality, and I want to take this opportunity and thank the one who's done it. We need to continue to deal with the way of equality in all fields and to rejoice in social diversity. A general body is one of the most important areas of society and its activities, i.e. To enact laws to other rulers of the state, institutions, and citizens of the State. We'll discuss these days as a bill for budget and bills on taxes and charges, bills that proclaim the restoration of the economy in a pandemic. The aim is to lighten the load of people and businesses, while the next year there is an increase in the financial maintenance level. It is our common task to build a society that contributes to the well - being, quality of life and economic sustainability for the future, a society where access to excellent and varied education and health - care systems is available for all regardless of what to be born with. While I'm standing here in this great pit, a lot of people in the community are doing a lot of important work. In the fishery that I have access to, a diverse group of staff from different nationalities are handling fresh fish, newly fished fish around Icelanders. The skill of staff is to make valuable for Icelandic society. In the United States, a wide variety of businesses, small, medium, and large companies lay the basis for the well - being, progress, and prosperity, living under the bases of society, education systems, health systems, welfare systems, transportation, infrastructure, culture, and art. So it is the advantage of all of us to promote employment. Plans based on the budget are expected for intensive economic growth. We have every opportunity to get this much economy, but that's why we need to support our professional life, including the rest of our lives. as well as taxes and fees, including insurance fees, but one of the main obstacles of an enterprise today is pay paid which has evolved from the rhythm of value generation. The increase in pay that the government has brought has added to business and has created inflation pressure and loss of the competitive status of the Icelandic economy. Business life is leading to growth in the labour market and to a growing number of jobs, not the public. Official and remote projects need to be reduced, negotiated for public service and set standards of quality and safety, whether the services are rendered by public or private sources. Unspecified criteria can lead to problems and waste, and public motivation is needed for management management. Small incentives are for economic management in public citizens who are not funded on a project-based basis. We need to strengthen our job life and create an encouraging environment in which people of different ages are allowed to make use of their abilities. I have great respect for the generations leading up to us, old citizens who have done much of a day's work and have laid the foundation for a prosperous society and the peoples we enjoy today. The official prerogative for older citizens has to be replaced by their freedom. Age is relative, and the same criteria cannot be set for this large and different group. It is beneficial to have a double pay target for professional pensioners. There are many other factors to consider in the affairs of older citizens and the importance of molding a common policy. We should both want to grow old and to be elderly. The urge to take action is to reach as many people as possible, and we need to support the disability in order to increase the workforce. More than 21,000 people are classified as disability, and it would be a great step to enable those who are able to expand their work. In order to accomplish this, we need to have a work record, and in recent years the government has taken money to carry it out and to change the rate of disability. Substantial changes are necessary in the insurance system, but they will only be done in cooperation and reconciliation with disability. The objective is to ensure their survival while increasing their effectiveness and aid participation in the community in all areas, especially in the labour market. It is good to see that in the Treaty of a new government, innovation and infrastructure are under high priority. We live in times where social change is not only profound but also moving at an ever - increasing rate. This presents a challenge, as well as an opportunity. The opportunity is most important in the best - quality technology, which enables us to expand our ministry and at the same time reduce costs. Our competition is green energy, and we need to use our resources in a sustainable way for the development of employment and energy exchanges here in the country. We need to rethink, reevaluate, and recycle. We've got a lot of underneath as a nation and we're supposed to be in the front row when it comes to environmental and climate issues. It is positive in the Treaty to help increase the potential for growth in pensions and the potential for further participation in investments and green investments. Honorable House of Congress. In order to contribute to the well - being I have considered, we need to increase the value of more efficient domestic production and to support export companies, which lay the basis for the currency of the country. By doing so, we will ensure the status and standard of life in the country and we will attract foreign investments. The world movie is different. Previously, Iceland was the jump platform between East and West. Today, the center of the northern, climate, and environmental areas is more important, especially in younger generations and in terms of gender equality, freedom of human rights, and rights is of great importance to new generations. It is our goal to shape a vision of the future which contributes to the economic sustainable development of the future, and I look forward to a perennial and upbuilding conversation with you about the future of Icelandic society.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u52	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for an excellent speech and, in particular, I thank her for her high priority on the environment. I noticed some factors, now that my generation is only looking at economic and environmental growth, but there are two issues where we need to look beyond our needs. Another thing about thinking about Iceland's resources and nature as only something to promote economic growth, but that's something I don't think we should suggest or develop in the direction of, since this is probably the nature of all of us to be preserved for future generations. On the other hand, economic growth and lower taxes may be the only way to increase society's income and future income, which I quite agree to be incredibly important, but there are a number of ways, such as resource tax and carbon tax, which can finance these measures. I like it very much that all groups focus on the environment, but it's only important to be looking at this future and with the right of future generations to view and our right to pure nature.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u53	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for coming up here and also giving me a chance to give a reply. Hv. A senator speaks of economic and environmental growth. These things work together so well in Iceland that we have our precious nature that we can use in green and environmental ways. All of the productions presented here by this environmentally friendly impulse that we have and our resources make all production more valuable and more attractive to export. Therefore, this will remain in good hands; domestic production, based on green energy, and economic growth.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u54	A respectable president. I bring here an opinion of a change to a bill for a change in air travel law, No. 60/1998, prolongation of time from the base. more than one part of the Environment and Transport Committee. The committee has discussed the matter and has received information from the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs and a memo from the State Marshal's Office. The committee made a suggestion for the conversion of the bill to the speaker and received a joint review of the change from the traveling agency, Istavia, Icelandaur and Play air. The bill suggests that the time of provision for temporary V on air travel will be extended to July 1, 2022, but the law would have undiminished on December 31, 2021. The directive contains a minister's permission to state the temporary duties of the airman's pilots in order to ensure control by a regulations when there is a risk of travel to or from Iceland and public health. These responsibilities are set out in the directive and are involved in the execution of a passenger or proof of a negative test against COVAD-19 prior to boarding, the proof that the COVAD-19 infection is over or is confirmed by the evidence of a test against COVAD-19 prior to the launch, as such a obligation was placed on the passenger basis of a contract. Then a minister may require that a passenger refuse a transfer, not allowing him to present a certificate or confirmation. According to 2 mg. The law, however, does not take that obligation to Icelandic citizens. After the bill was referred to the Committee, the EFTA (EU) Commission announced a formal letter of admonition to the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs since December 15 of this year. A violation of treaties against the United States. As shown in the bill's report, ESAs have dealt with the Icelandic government because of the provision of temporary V on air travel laws. The EsSA letter shows that the EEA is permitted to limit EU citizens' quests with the aim of mastering the CVID-19 epidemic, which has to include those limitations. based on guidelines for moderate and equality. ESA requested that all EEA citizens who have legally resided in Iceland have a reason for support by the European government, but points out in their letter that the European government has not sufficiently demonstrated how the measures are based on average practice and conformed to EEA regulations. The ESA's letter then shows that the measures are in order to include them. Not much for EEA legislation to ensure assistance and compensation to a passenger who is denied a ride. During the meeting with visitors, comments were made to the current regulations, including the following: that the targets of temporary V on air travel have not been met by the lack of a double view of data that passengers need to submit, i.e. is on burden and on arrival to the country. The arrangement as if it were after the execution of the arrangement meant having bottlenecks, paving the delay and negative experiences of passengers, leading to groups that could lead to an increased risk of infection. It would be necessary to ensure that the principle would be examined in one place only. The majority of them consider it proper to respond to the indications given in an ESA's reminder letter so that the views shown on average and even to be met. In addition, the more part is under the indication that a change of the procedure is necessary for all passengers to have a view of both the burden and the arrival of the country, as was the purpose of the sentence of the law. In agreement with the Department of Transport and Health for Transport and the Ministry of Health, the Committee suggests changes the provision of temporary V on air travel to meet the above views. First, the majority suggest that instead of allowing a secretary to state the duties of a pilot to deny passengers a transfer that has neither been registered nor can obtain available data, it is permitted to state the obligation of flight drivers to report to the Icelandic law enforcement agencies, within the specified time period, about such passengers, their name, passport number and flight number, which are en route to the country. That obligation, regardless of nationality, is to include all passengers as well as to suggest that the 2 mg/day issue of this issue at the same time fall. By limiting the personal information provided by the directive using a complete count to information that is not considered sensitive personal information as well as the fact that the information should be transmitted only to law enforcement authorities, the greater part considers to be moderate, and the requirement for legislation and the rules for personal protection to be met. The majority suggest that in a Regulation it should be within the time period of announcement to the government. To meet its goal, such announcements must be received before the passengers arrive on the land. Is it even? Based on the warning effect, it is essential that a double opinion of the Witnesses be made by all passengers. Second, it will be permitted to inform the passengers of the consequences that they cannot present the above data during the coming to the country, which may be fines or excerpts at the time of the visit based on cross-cutting, No. 19/1997. In this case, the greater part believes that the warning effect of the procedure is sufficiently ensured. It is expected that flight drivers will be obliged to check the prescription and the passenger's certificate will remain unchanged. Third, the majority suggest a 4 - mg word change. of the law so that administration fines as a CA are authorized to aim at an aerospace/adversor, not on an individual or on the legal basis. The majority of the differences are considered to be consistent with ESA observations, including those mentioned above. in terms of moderate intensity and equality. Then, the more part of the matter is the importance of the development and sharing of personal information that may result in the need to be fully in line with the laws on personal protection and the processing of personal information, No. 90/2018, and to the Regulation of Ministers placed on a 1 mg basis. &lt; 0.001a &lt; 0.001a &gt; &lt; 0.0001 &gt; &lt; 0.0001 &gt; &lt; 0.0001 &gt; &lt; 0.0001 &gt; &lt; 0.001 this should be taken into account. The majority agree with the view that the temporary duties that a minister is permitted to place on flight drivers under the directive are burdensome. In the course of Regulation on the basis of the regulations, as well as in the legal review of regulations to be performed at intervals of no less than four weeks according to Article 3. Therefore, it is necessary to be moderate and to support the need for authority. The majority of them consider it important to seek technical solutions, such as the pre-registry of passengers and digital recording solutions, aimed at complying with the regulations set up on the basis of the directive, which will be least burdensome for pilots and passengers. It is necessary for technical solutions from the Icelandic competent authorities to be compatible with the digital solutions of pilots so that the systems can work together and return to the best of their effectiveness. The majority suggest that the bill be agreed with the changes taken here. Under this opinion, publications are written. Councilmen Vilhjálmur Árnason, Kristjánsdóttir Signý Kristoffsdóttir, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Bjarni Jónsson, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Anna, Njáll Friðbertsson, and Orri Jóhannsson. - I've finished my speaking, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u55	President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir For this, the Halla of the Signý's Kristjánsdóttir, for which she is well known for her excellent history. I'd like to begin by celebrating that the committee came together to make significant adjustments on the bill as originally proposed. In itself there does not have to be many words about the fact that at the time of the original law, which is now being extended, there was much discussion of the Constitution and its regulations and, therefore, a person is a little surprised, when it comes to a letter of admonition from the ESA, that the Ministry and the Minister did not take any further notice. I'd like to be glad that the Committee has made improvements in the bill that I like to have everyone fall in response to these views about the fact that, first of all, the subject of his time, it could not be avoided by Icelandic citizens to come to the country and then take note of what ESAs say about discrimination. I don't have any questions in my mind. A senator, but he just wanted to make this right. It's a good thing we've been like this, and hopefully we've arranged it so that we could both be able to care for our own citizens, but more about our commitments under the EEA deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u56	A respectable president. Thank you. A member of the council before the counter, and he can agree with his words. We took to heart the tips we received. I was not naturally a member of the Committee during the last term when these laws were passed, changes in them, but after the bill was referred to the Commission, the Commission announced a formal reminder letter to the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs - which is stated after the case is referred to the Committee. As soon as the committee presented the case, we took this to heart. We all agreed on that and got a good landing, and we had the problem, including. Work in good cooperation with Persian protection to ensure that this would be the best done so that it would not help to clear up the situation when it was due to be carried out. Other than that, I just agree with a word. The senator's importance is that everyone has equal rights as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u57	President. Thank you. Kristjánsdóttir I'm glad we're on the same page. I think it's really good that we take it seriously. Then I'm referring to the surveillance agency. Of course, it was so that the Ministry had already been given ESA tips that this was not okay with the Agency's opinion. Nevertheless, the Ministry decided to do what it did. But then this formal letter comes, and the committee stands out, which is good, and I welcome it. This may be a general point for us to consider, how important it is to mention a problem with our work. This is a good example of this and should be welcomed. At the same time, it is often a good suggestion for more than one part of the time to be careful not just to be an extension of what ministers or the Ministry say. I just wanted to share these views with this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u58	A respectable president. Thank you. A member of the United States for the counter, and he agrees again with the word that it is good to consider the matter carefully. As I say, I don't know how the job was carried out at earlier points, but I'm sure there was no objection to the Commission when it came to us working with it and finding the best possible solution, since I feel that the results of these changes have been so much like everyone, since everyone wrote under the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-27-17.u59	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a board of committees on bill to legalize the law on the Children's Family and Family Laws on the Health and Health Organization, which has to do with the transfer of employees. The nominee is from a welfare committee, but the bill itself is available on a panel. ' 196, case No. 188, and the NTSB's opinion of the 2nd. It's so crowded. 225. We're taking in the Children's and Family Laws, No. 87/2021, and Code on Health and Health Organization, No. 88/2021, on January 1, 2022, two agencies, one of the Children's Protection Agency and the Ministry of Quality and Social Services and Children's Protection. This is because of a change in the law adopted here at the spring council. The work of the latter institutions will be carried out at the time of the reinstatement. These elements require that the work of the Children's Institutes of Children's Health and the Quality and Management Department of Social Services and Child Protective Services be transferred to the new institutions by implementing current employment contracts with those who are engaged in the implementation of law no. 87/2021 and Track No. 88/2021. BHM describes the concern that changes in projects will lead to a big change in the possibility of shutting down or disintegrating the staff. A memo published by the Department of Social Affairs reports that on the part of the Ministry, a high priority is that no employee of the Children's Health Office and the Ministry of Social Services and Children's Health and the Children's Health Department will be laid down for years on the grounds that his work has been canceled. Then the Committee has decided that in the bill it says that the recruitment rate of workers will be the same in new institutions as in their recruitment income at the Children's Institutes and Quality and Health Organization for Social Services and Children's Protection. The Commission agrees with the importance of prior trust in the rights of the workers and suggests that the bill will be agreed as unchanged. Under the opinion of the above mentioned publications, Dr. Anna Sævarsdóttir, director of the Committee and head of the committee, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Mist Einarsdóttir Einarsdótir, Guðmundur In Kristinsson, Guðrún Hafsteinsdóttir Hafdís Hafsteinsdóttir Hörnsteinsdon, Halldóra Mogensen, Skúladóttir, and Viktor Pálsson's son.
