ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-14-10.u1	Mr. President. It is with great humility that I stand here and give my virgin talk. It is a privilege to be at the Council. I take it with great responsibility. The reason I keep silent here today is because my mailbox is filled with mail from poor Icelanders, microchips crying for Christmas. I want to say to you: I can see and I can hear, and if I could answer each letter, and if I could help what I would, I can't do it at all. However, I can make every effort to handle the issues that come into this council in order to give them a career course in order to allow us to adjust the situation for a long time. I want to tell you that poor people I know in my own eyes. I was a young mother, and I've been using all kinds of services as normal people in the community like me and you have to use them. What I would like to talk about today is also what is marked with all the service that I have had to use as an ordinary citizen in this country. When I was 14, my eldest son was a very sick child. The children's hospital is in Reykjavík. I suffer sexual abuse. Help is in Reykjavík. I'm a lawyer educated. I had to go to Reykjavík for my education. [[The president calls.]] I just want to say, we're all part of this community, but we, who are from the country, always have limited options. [[The president calls.]] It has been said here that people are standing in rows after Christmas dinner. In many parts of the country, there are no rows, since there is no help. This was what I wanted to address in my first talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-14-10.u2	The president reminds us that the session will take two minutes to discuss the activities of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-14-10.u3	Mr. President. A few words on the importance of developing the structure, the electrical transport system, quickly. We've discussed these matters quite in the last few days, and I'd like to say a few words here at the council. These days and winter, we're dealing with a power shortage, probably for the first time in Iceland for 15 to 20 years. This is true of certain areas of territory and occupations. As a result, much of the problems we are now having are actually caused by the weak transport systems of electricity. The system was built in the 1970's from 40 to 50 years of age. When in use, it was carrying about 201⁄225% of the power of the fortresses in the country. Today, there is a ratio of 3◯4%. So I'd like to say that much of the problem we have today is poor transport capacity. If we had a transport system to carry energy, we could spread energy through the country in a much better and more powerful way. Our aim for changing energy and various climate projects will not be reached in the coming years and decades unless electricity transport systems are strengthened. It may not be clear to all of us that the activations of the North and East are producing energy similar to what is produced in The Moon and the Moon. Thus, it is an enormous task to strengthen the electrical power system, to strengthen the electrical transport systems, including the electricity system. to make better use of the overall system and balance the water supply when there are poor rivers in individual areas, such as we now experience in the Turmoil area. To make things right, we need to strengthen the line, whether it's the line line line, or we need to look at the options of cables over explosion land to further strengthen it. Our country's opportunity to produce green renewable energy is a large and important factor for Iceland's long-term competitiveness, for the work and well-being of its citizens.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-14-10.u4	Mr. President. A high level of access to good health care services is important for housing safety. In many parts of the world, a variety of services have been replaced as an important emergency service. As a result, a patient's flight is safe because of serious illness or an accident. Sadly, the facilities and equipment at airports for hospital flights have been poorly maintained at important locations. There is good reason to discuss this again and again the location of a medical flight at the Coedos Airport. We know that the land route in and out of the province has been closing for even days, leaving 700,000 cars each year. A serious group accident has also occurred. Positive news is now coming from a mixed-up of a variety of structure, especially in employment, such as high-tech food processing in connection with that flourishing business, Vilko. Diversity and good housing conditions are important for further development of habitat security and ensure that good health care is essential. It has a medical flight through the Bayou Airport a key role for residents in Huna Lakes and the number of people traveling there. It's not long since flight lights were fixed and GPSs were set up to facilitate ground flight, and that's fine. But in order to complete the project so that the racer airport can play its security role for the area, the repair of the bounds has to be completed on the Mixo Airport. Such a project could cost about 40 billion. K. If there is a regime, such as in a well - afforded Northground airport, to make it more safe to fly in a hospital. That's more than 70 million. K. If you are suffering from malaria. There are not large sums of money on account of how much is at stake. Therefore, I would like to challenge the transport authorities to carry out their role in making sure that this important work will be completed as soon as possible, for it is a rich public interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-14-10.u5	Mr. President. The government wants to buy a Hotel story for the University of Iceland. Buying and renovating are estimated to be 6.5 billion. and it's legalized for this, 6.5 billion. We all know that it will take years to turn this ancient house into a schoolhouse, and experience also shows that there is usually a much higher actual cost than planning. You can even talk about an unfilled check in this context with such actions. That is why I must ask: Is this a favorable advance for the public? Is the public tax money being handled here? Rather than building a building specifically designed for the university's needs, is it a better way of handling government funds to buy, renovate, and change its historic housing, which, according to reports, is much damaged? These questions about priorities are not taken out of the air. To illustrate: The government is going to run a government fund with 170 billion dollars. ... turnup next year. She doesn't think she has room to subsidize psychology services, as the Council has requested, and is planning to reduce contributions to education and culture by 2.3 billion dollars. between. It can also be seen with the view that in many parts of the country, housing and hotels are scarce, while Hotel History is in business. Would the government have the same reasoning as buying hotels and making them apartments? Or is the operators of Hotel History in a special position when it comes to predators like this one, which the public finally pays for?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-14-10.u6	A respectable president. The record of unemployment in Iceland in November was 4.9% as measured by the labour company. As you look at that number, you wonder: " Isn't it just damn good for the position we've been in? Unemployment took 12% a year, and these are clearly significant improvements, the country is rising. But when you look at these numbers and wonder what's behind 4.9% of the individuals behind these numbers, we see that without a job today, more than 10,000 people, 10,000 people who don't work and find it difficult to provide and to support themselves and their families. What is also noteworthy about this is that of this 10,000, nearly half of the population of a foreign nation has broken down in Iceland, perhaps without a network. At the same time, we also see that 400 jobs are only being advertised when 10,000 people are out of work. Nearly half of this group have also been jobless for 12 months or more, and some parts of the country do not have 4.9% but up to 10% unemployment, including Southnes. We're looking at groups that are in real trouble, and for some reason I don't feel that it's part of the budget. The 30th metal group involved in the workforce is cut down by less than 50 billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-14-10.u7	President. It's a fun time of year right now. It's the time of the year when people are preparing for Christmas, it's excitement, it's fun, it's a mistake, we're having a good time, i.e. Some of us, not all of us. I haven't been in the position of not being able to celebrate Christmas. I have not been in the position of being desperate to think of how to make my children happy at Christmas, which is better. But I really feel for those people who stand like that. The crowd of people have fought more than any other for this class so far, for those less lenient in society, but the Party of the people has not yet made it to the government, which means that it will not be as much as we would like. It's filled my mailbox like more senators now before Christmas for the desperate call of these people who can't afford Christmas. It didn't take so much for me to worry about them or about real people. But we have to do something for these people. It's just not okay that there's a group in our society that's missing. It's not okay for them to be life, not just a temporary situation, but a life that these people look forward to. This is not the only Christmas that poor and elderly people worry about. Christmas is always like that. Last year, a Christmas bonus was granted. We have to do it again. There's something these people have to get to have some kind of Christmas, and I'm just gonna pray to all of us that we're gonna do this, that we'll see to it. I pray to the government that she will see to it that these people will be there for Christmas.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-14-10.u8	A respectable president. 702 children. There's a lot of people waiting for the diagnosis and service at the Development and Behavioral Center in the capital Health. These are just numbers from now on in December that I got from earlier on. 702 children. These are children with ADHD, children with autism, anxiety, behavioural problems, and many have had to wait more than a year to find out, some for two years. These are twice as many children as they were on a waiting list at the agency when Catherine's Katrín of Jakobsdóttir began ruling in 2017. They wait longer and longer, the result that the number of employees and funds is not in any agreement with the real need for service. This is the situation, and we know it. The same is true of state analyses and counselling centres addressing children with severe developmental disorders. There were four hundred children on a waiting list earlier this year, and they also had to wait up to two years after diagnosis. Starting by President's permission: The aims to improve early support cannot be met without the elimination of the waitings, but this effort requires increased funding for state analysis and counseling centres. This was recently stated by the Director of Children's Staff to the Generals, but the Government of St. Katrín's Jakobsdóttir clearly disagrees with this, for the next year's budget is directly expected to cut the budgets for the Agency and then continue to cut down in 2020 and 2024. Mr. President. Until we have given these 1,000 children and their families clear promises that this will be taken as soon as it is clearly revealed in legal terms, we members of the Parliament have no business on Christmas Day. These children have waited long enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-14-10.u9	Mr. President. I'd like to be here to discuss the situation at the restaurant. There probably is no sector, at least a few people, who have been worse out of government Covid operations than the food field. There are about 1,000 companies with about 10,000 employees, so there is no small group. Since restrictions took place, the number of customers at restaurants and bars of the country has been limited most of the industry's industry's trades and toil and business practices. When restrictions are placed on short notice and there are no resources available, operators will be stuck at all costs. It is, in fact, unannounced that the government limits the activities of an enterprise, without being met by supportive measures. That is the very theme expressed in the cry of this organization, the Association of the Associations, which are the partners of a restaurant market, which was sent to a body of Congress at the end of the month. We are now approaching mid - December. The years to the year when funding is available are only halfway since the call was sent and nothing has been shown to improve or improve the position of this group of employees and companies themselves. During the last two years of this market, when governments take the heavy measures that have been regularly run over, there are substantial costs and conditions, and the safety of these companies is completely upset. I think it would be wise for us to stop this action that we have been subjected to for nearly two years now. At any rate, while governments are not ready to stop this operation, they must meet the members of this operation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-14-10.u10	Mr. President. It was early in 2018 that the Commission of Environment and Resources canceled the approved City Council of Hafnarfjörg since June 21, 2017, for the implementation of Keyring Line 1. The results of the committee were and are still a source of great disappointment. A meeting was made on the preliminary move of the line at the beginning of 2019, and they completed the same year's transfer. In the main organization of Hafnarfjörður in 2005-2025, and in the current major structure of the 2013 -2025, Keyring Line is expected. The line harmonizes with the regional structure of the capital area, and so does the main organization of the rural communities around which the line is located. The storms and especially the inhabitants of the Vows have been promised to remove their modems. This has cost the community billions of people, since this has delayed building on a very promising construction site. The matter is now under consideration of environmental impact. Whatever the outcome, a new act of implementation and even a change in the main structure of all the rural communities will need to be restored. As shown by Southnes Line 2, which has taken about 15 years in planning. Of course, it's an unsurpassed administration for everyone, and I'd like to encourage the highest power. A minister to take all these matters into consideration and to make the process more efficient by the changes and practices that lie ahead of the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-14-10.u11	A respectable president. Yesterday we talked about December, Christmas bonus. The government's clients are entitled to December, a so - called Christmas bonus. They have the right to do so according to the law. The question is, Why don't they get this Christmas bonus? Who are those who don't get a Christmas bonus? That's a big group. Why? Yes, the geniuses invented pensions, legalized creditors, pension savings, can be used to prevent a large group from being satisfied with Christmas bonus or December. It's like they say to a general worker: If you work overtime, you won't get a Christmas bonus. To us: All extra pay - you don't get a Christmas bonus. Who made such a system? Who maintains such a system? Yes, the current government, has maintained this for four years, and is going to continue this. So I ask, where is equal? Where Is Justice? How can we afford to treat people this way? I have to say, you can sometimes become dumb about this system we've created, let alone a year or so we're going to let it continue and make it worse and worse. Why are disability impaired by 38.9%? The older people and the old people who have already worked and built this country, why do they get 45% impairment? Aged people with reduced habitats get an increase of 10% of their habitats in the lowest pensions and all other income loss, including Christmas bonus. The Christmas bonus, the older people, and the desperate, who have been forced to pay for a pension fund, cannot be bought with a crown. Isn't it time to change that?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-14-10.u12	A respectable president. We will soon be treated at the council, where we have the opportunity to review the huge changes needed to be made. V.E.G. A financial minister has informed the council that there is no idea what that will cost you, but it is clear that the amount is worth hundreds of millions of dollars. Today, we have the highest notice. The prime minister has great opportunities for this conversation. It's the best thing to say in a few ways. It is obvious to all thinking people that the events in this situation are not motivated by concern for the work, staff, or effectiveness of the Management Board. On the contrary, this is a response to election ends and disagreements between the government parties in huge cases. Each time a short road for the State, a building, or a governing body is constructed, some kind of assessment, or analysis of benefits and costs, while making a decision on the structure and structure of the entire board, including the Governing Body. to deal with a climate problem and a pandemic, a three - man informal cup of coffee is needed in a beautiful house on the Chad Street. To put this into perspective: There is a much more detailed and professional analysis behind the little repairs of the Board of Directors than the largest development of the Council and its recruitment in the republic history. The Ministers, managers of recruitment, employees, and subsidiary were faced with the word, for it was part of a policy exchange rather than content, consultation, and vision. In other words, this is the most expensive and least considered minister of all time. I'm not going to rule out that one of these things will be of benefit to you. Surely, there is reason to jump for policy goals at times. But when such dramatic changes are made to the board of directors, surely the directors of the administrations are expected to borrow the judgment of more than sheepty political assistants.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-14-10.u13	President. About a year ago, I gave a talk under this program on charge. Then I said, ▪ I'm going to talk about the charges and the interesting fact that I got e - mail yesterday, where I was encouraged to make my own proposal and the more part of the Economic and Business Committee to raise the application fees - or maybe we should simply say correction of the application fees? I think it's time we had the courage to take that discussion in this hall how much the Church and other religions are relevant to society. They play a vital role in our community and in times such as these are certainly needed. The proposal I referred to there was for an increase in attendances at 1,080. This proposal was adopted, and I think that most of the people who approved it felt that they were meeting a part of the reduction in terms of a law that has been reduced to more than a decade or even just since there was a lawsuit. So I felt that next year's parish could not get any lower than it was this year. But, yes, now in the budget bill it's a total of 985 bucks. or reduces about 95 k. between. It doesn't work out, so I think it's necessary to go to the current water. The Economic and Business Committee contributes to the change in these forces in communism. You see, it's important that we protect the church and other religions. They play a vital role in Icelandic society. Of course, it is long time for a reexamination of charge laws, and we have stopped paying temporary charges on each year's charges in due course.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-14-10.u14	A respectable president. I wanted to say goodbye, prepared for the council, at the beginning of the election, and discuss some important and large matters that await us during the election season. They will not be solved in pits, with shouts, accusations, jealousy, or an endless subversive. The nation, succeeding generations, many community groups, and professional life depend on us to work with responsibility, reason, and the ambitious solution to important issues. All of us have the means to be optimistic and to win well for our country and nation. We live in the land of opportunity, and we must make use of ourselves to create an even greater society and create a powerful welfare. We are in a mortal capacity to use the many resources that we have in so many ways. We need to make a decision to take advantage of opportunities that are in all the green energy we have but at the same time that beautiful and clean nature gives us. Here are all the conditions for food production and farming. There we must agree on land use and development of national important structures. We can afford these things, we know who they are. We just don't agree on how and if we want to build them up. While we're running our chances, we're talking down. These disputes are widely involved, including the national capital contract, where an agreement was made to improve quality of life by 80% of the population, as well as green solutions, increase traffic security, and reduce community costs. This important project seems like we're going to fuck up over political issues. It took much political effort and cooperation to establish a capital agreement that guaranteed transportation freedom and the overall development of transport in the capital area. Now we have spent only all our time arguing over one form of transportation that is supposed to be above the others. This is no way to behave. We are trusted, and we must live up to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-14-10.u15	Mr. President. Children differ as many of them. Someone needs professional support through life at some point in life. The rest of them don't have to. Experts, whether it is speech pathologists, psychologists, occupational therapists, behavioral advisers, or others, are very important and especially important that the support comes right away to solve the problem. Now the situation is that health care, which is classified as a primary service, is in a room where professionals, secondary service, and child-adolescents, are classified as a Phase 3 service, are waiting list. There are waiting lists that can range from months to years. The situation is that psychology times are simply luxury. The times have become popular birthday gifts for children and possibly Christmas gifts at Christmastime. This situation is not acceptable to the children of the country or to the families of the country. Inadequacy from the State has long - standing effects on children. Whether a child is three or four years of age is important when he or she receives assistance with speech. Whether you are 11 or 12 years old, whether you will be helped to develop social anxiety. Taking in a child's first - important trouble. Supporting the resources and institutions of these individuals is not only a matter of life and death but also of economic benefits to the State. If we invest in our children, we will reap a healthy society. If we don't put Kingdom interests first for young people, we'll have soup later. This group of paintings has been neglected for way too long, and while I'm sitting here I'll fight for him and do what I can in this suit.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-14-10.u16	Mr. President. In January 2018, the inhabitants of Southnesia were 25,770. Three years later, on January 1, 2021, the population had reached 28,195. During that brief period of 2,425, the population had increased by the short period of time. These include 400 inhabitants more than the combined population of Stykisholmtown and Gnarfjörður farms, for example, to put them in context of population growth. All these people are entitled to a proper health care in their locality. However, this population has not been estimated to be all or population growth that has been abundant for more than three years. Yet, there are thousands of Southnes who seek health care to the capital area. The financial bill for next year will not fix the situation. In fact, there is a decrease in the budget for the Agency, if I understand the figures correctly, so the situation will continue to get worse unless the Council intervenes. Hv. Councilmen can represent the highest level. stewards and do what is right. Southnesian Health Organization must be able to meet the needs of the inhabitants for health care and basic services in the area. It is far less expensive for everyone, both the population and the state funds, to enable the Agency to perform its legal tasks in the home. The local health services, the starving Southnes National Health Organization, are under tax control so that the inhabitants will be forced to serve in Reykjavík, a service that is more expensive in most cases, and under extreme pressure.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-14-10.u17	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct the veterinary medicinal product. The bill is composed by a group of health - care professionals. The staff appointed representatives from the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Employment and Development, Drug Administration and Food Organization. The bill includes the introduction of two regulations. First, it is European Parliament and Council Regulation (EU) No. 5/2019 of December 11, 2018, of the change in EU Regulation No. 726/2004, on the treatment of the Community's legislation on the treatment of animal and animal treatments and on the establishment of the European Medicines Agency on the change of EU Regulation No. 1901/2006 of medicinal products for children and of Directive 2001 No. 83/2001, i.e. The European Union Directive on the Alliance on medicinal products intended for human use. Second, it is European Parliament and Council Regulation (EU) No. 2019/6 of December 11, 2018, of the veterinary medicinal product and degradation of the Directive 2001/82/EC, below known as the veterinary medicinal product Regulation. The rules are set up in the European Union on January 28, 2022. A respectable president. The objective of this bill is primarily to guide the quality and safety of the veterinary medicinal product with the safety and welfare of the animals. The objective is also to ensure the safety and wholesome food produced from animal products in this country and to increase the fight against resistance to anti-infectives. The agreed bill includes new overall animal treatment guidelines. The bill is very rich and includes improved and clearer animal treatment frames and better monitoring in this important language class. The European Regulation is aimed at harmonising national legislation and ensuring compliance with the rules applicable to veterinary medicinal products. As a consequence of the EEA partnership, the regulations to be taken up in the EEA contract should be taken up. There is not much room to deviate from the requirements of the European Orders, and this is primarily due to the implementation of responsibilities and requirements on the basis of the regulations of the Regulation. However, there is room for the European rules to set specific rules or to implement the individual regulations of the Regulation. The bill contains the key principles of the veterinary medicinal product principle together with requirements taken from the current pharmaceutical system and a new overall animal treatment guidelines. There are no precautions in the product bill that are not removed from the veterinary medicinal product protocol or local requirements. The bill includes the product manufacturing process of the veterinary medicinal product in the market as well as the use of veterinary medicinal products and the particular limitations of the use of anti-infectives and immunological agents. It should be noted here that antibiotics, antibacterials, and antiparasitic agents are the preferred term for antibacterial agents. The main change in marketing of veterinary medicinal products is that their time is unlimited, their manufacturers and pooled veterinary medicinal products need to be confirmed within the European Economic Area and applicable to their license throughout the EEA. The animal protocol covers three databases discussed in the bill. These include: Product databases for which all authorised veterinary medicinal products will be registered in Iceland; a database of manufacture and pooled distribution, in which all information on the published authorisation of the European Medicines Agency for manufacture and full sale will be recorded; and the pharmacovigilance database, in which information on all suspected adverse events is documented. In addition, the bill puts the government's requirements to collect information on the sale and use of anti-infectives used for animals. Is it to help prevent the spread of antibiotics? The collection should help the government assess directly or indirectly the use of such products at fire stations for animals producing food products. A respectable president. As mentioned earlier, in addition to the bill the European Commission regulations for veterinary medicinal products and, therefore, are primarily applicable to requirements and responsibilities that are relevant to the Regulation. However, the rules measure and allow the implementation of specific points. I would like to refer to examples relating to the language requirements set out for Summary of Product Characteristics, labeling the package of medicinal products and package leaflets. The Minister may require in Regulation the request that this information be provided in Icelandic and that it be allowed in English or Northern languages other than Finnish. It is also placed in the Member States whether or not they are home to an electronic package leaflet of veterinary medicinal products and is authorised in the bill. The European Medicines Agency is authorised in accordance with the veterinary medicinal product regulation and is subject to the monitoring of the implementation of the veterinary medicinal product and the bill. Food clinics will monitor animal doctors. The animal protocol does not prevent legalisation of increased requirements as long as they are compatible with them. For one thing, there were laws made from the medication, No. 100/2020 to the bill, e.g. on background information at 53rd. The bill and the information from the customs authorities at 54th. The bill. This is in accordance with local requirements and it is proposed that the same rules regarding human therapeutic and veterinary medicinal products are applicable. One of the main objectives of the bill is to control the use of animals, including animals. containing a record of sale and use for the purpose of restraining the spread of antibiotic resistance. The aim is to ensure the safety and healthy food produced from animal products in this country and to help fight resistance to infectious agents. The bill further limits the use of anti-infectives in animals, including the requirements for clinical evaluation before prescribing. The prescriber's check for an infectious medicinal product should be true for five days only after its version. The administration system, as well as its secretary, has the authority to limit or prohibit the use of anti-infectives for animals. A respectable president. The bill was composed by a group of working representatives of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Employment and Development, the Institute of Medicine and Food. Then, on November 7, 2021, the bill was published in a government recommendation on October 19, 2021. The release was revealed to major institutions and stakeholders, but there were five reviews at the bill. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the bill is a good account of this and that it is very useful for the Commission to review the tips that came there. It says here that there were helpful tips, and most of them were tried to cope with this clean induction. I'm referring it to what. A well - arranged committee, a respectable president, to take a special look at this. The evaluation of the effectiveness of the bill on the state funds has been performed and remains unchanged that the legislation of the bill is expected to affect the spending side of the state funds of half the status of a specialist at the EMA for six months or approximately. 5.8 billion. K., a single cost funded by the Department of Health. A respectable president. I have now explained the fundamental factors of the bill, and I allow myself to suggest that the bill be after the 1st. Pointed to why. The welfare committee and the 2nd Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-14-10.u18	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister for this pre-historic speech. I'd like to ask, because the case is based on something. in EEA regulations and practices, whether there is anything in the EU specialised, whether or not there are special guidelines for the Icelandic environment for this matter. I'd also like to draw the attention of a minister to a report by his pre-work and then a marine emissary arranged for a joint opinion on the presence of antibacterial resistance at home, whether or not they follow up. to recommend a multi-disciplinary team for the next year, that we go on a similar expedition and most other European countries for the review of antibiotic resistance. This report also suggests that there are several sources of antibiotic use within our agriculture, and how are we stopping it? I am aware that the minister is new in his work and will not insist on a thorough answer, but I ask if he still knows if this cross-cutting team has been appointed. The other question, I reiterate it: Is there anything in this bill beyond what is stated in the European directive itself?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-14-10.u19	V.E.G. President. Thank you. To some extent, I thought about the questions. A senator stands out here. Whether or not there is a speciality of this pure induction is taking over anything that is already in the current law, i.e. It is being taken directly into account in accordance with the local regulations, coming in here and in accordance with the regulations. But I don't know how to answer it any more than that. I wouldn't have a specific point at this time. For antibiotic resistance - and for the most part, I examined it because there is a threat, there is a global threat, and we are in a very special position when it comes to the use of antibiotics in groceries. I know why. A senator knows this very well as the former Supreme Court. Agricultural minister and knowledge of the discussion and all reports of that threat. The results of this case have been examined, and the reviews of this problem would seem to strengthen us in this position with the proposed databases, especially the product database and the pooled distribution database, the circulating drugs, and especially the pharmacovigilance database. It's the cross-cutting team thing, I don't know it. [[The president calls.]] I'll ask that question when we're through with this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-14-10.u20	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct the change in financial standards laws and key information documents due to certain investment products for general investors. The bill, on the other hand, focuses on legalisation of change in European principles of financial policy, which are indicators that lay the basis for agreements in financial markets. For example, bank interest is often equivalent to indexes that are supposed to measure interest from bank to bank with a certain amount of pressure. These changes are presented in Regulation 2021/168 of the European Union. The Regulation allows the European Commission and the National Competent Authorities to decide on the criteria to be used if protocols are to be submitted and agreements have not agreed on other criteria to support. According to the source, at this time of the year, it is time to stop publishing LIBOR and EORA, both criteria to reflect bank interest costs and to establish a wide range of financial contracts. The European Commission has published two regulations in which LIBOR in Swiss francs should be used for Swiss average-day growth and that in place of the EEA, short-term growth should be supported by the European Union. While it was suggested that the legislation bill be submitted in February, the Commission of finance companies have declared that it would be a big interest for Icelandic companies to allow the productions to be established before the year or throughout the year to avoid any interference and uncertainty that could result from the discontinuation of these criteria, LIBOR and EOR. Therefore, the treatment of the matter was hurried, compared with the Constitution as possible. On the other hand, the bill focuses on extending the exception of the enterprises of stock funds and the head of specialized funds for the general investors have had from law on key information documents due to certain investment products for the general investors. The extension will take into account the similar extension of the European Commission approved in December. The forwarding of the waiver is aimed at preventing the EICs from preparing key information documents, which provide comprehensive information on investments, both under the regulations on key information documents and laws relating to the relevant enterprise. It relieves unnecessary double acts from the companies, but it also prevents confusion that could occur if general investors received two different versions of key information. The European Union estimates that at the beginning of 2023, permanent arrangements will be established which will make further extension unnecessary. It is felt that the laws, and regulations set on the basis of them, will be valid before the year, both in order to ensure a smooth transition to new financial market standards and to avoid unnecessary double injury and the risk of misunderstandings about key information documents for general investors. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to the Economic and Business Committee and 2nd. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-14-10.u21	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a variety of tax and tax laws (bludge charge, oil and miles tax, automobile tax, fuel, etc.).Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: %s The subject of the bill is a change in the availability of professional observation centres and the Group to collect dues, where financial and economic contracts of observation centres and the Office for Payment of Pays were canceled at the beginning of 2021. The agreements had been in force since 1998 and were considered as a child of their time, and not in accordance with the view given to the law on public finance, the law on collecting public pay, and the aim of the government during the past year on official tax efficiency and pay. The Ministry has agreed with the Organization of Trade and Service on behalf of telecommunications as well as the Association, the State's Financial and the IRS, for which there have been a number of opinions surrounding the implementation of collected taxes on vehicle. This bill aims to meet the views of places of opinion and the Association to reduce their approach to collect public taxes and pay as much as possible without the threat of major losses. The bill suggests some small changes that are thought to improve automobile tax laws, oil bills, and mile tax laws, as well as the provision of automobiles, fuels, and so on. The changes would reduce observation stations in order to encourage the police if a owner or manager has missed paying a car tax, a tax, a mile tax, or a special mile tax from the car. On the basis of automobile bills, there is also suggest that following a trade, the owner of a taxpayer sees that reimbursement to the seller and new car stress on a buyer at 15 days later. It is then suggested that when the registration and dispensing of a registration sign be returned, it should be paid not immediately but followed by deadlines 15 days later. Then there is a change in the law on oil tax and miles. It is thus suggested that the establishment of a professional telecommunication centre reduces the reading of the mile - priced driver's license by a government tax manager who may decide that a lecture must be made electronically. This is in accordance with the development of digital services on the part of the public and benefits the owners of a payable vehicle. However, the arrival of a checkpoint will remain. It is shown in a surveillance role at the main checkpoint, thus ensuring that a lecture to the tax is regularly delivered and that IRS will be maintained. However, it is clear that even if a government tax manager decides to allow a lecture to be read electronically, a checkout will still be done on his readings. Assessment of the impact of the proposed bill is expected to be negligible. It can be assumed that, in some cases, late collect of automobile bills, especially in the new registration of automobiles and registration records, the car's fee will not be collected at the site but will be submitted afterwards. No significant effects on car owners are anticipated due to changes in automobile costs. If you have to register a lecture of miles electronically, I feel that the ministry is improving. It is important for owners of donated vehicles and, in addition, that the risks of doing this are reduced by the observation centres documenting vehicles on main inspection and sending the information to the governor of the tax. Perhaps we are here with some kind of model that we can continue to build because we face considerable changes in the collections due to the automobiles in the country. Here we are looking to a specific factor. It's the members of the people who have the miles under here. It is not likely that we gradually move to the point where public traffic needs to be targeted at the measuring point, i.e. the total quantity of the vehicles, not the special miles, which are appropriate in these cases. The impact on government and organisations is expected to be negligible, however it is assumed that the responsibility of the Community and the Marketing Authorisation of Observation Centres will be reduced, as car fees will no longer be collected at the new registration and the reporting of registrations. This also has some effect on the tax system, since the reimbursement and reimbursement have to be performed by owners, new registrations, and the review of registrations. This is not a dramatic effect; it is normally in line with the subject of the bill. Other forms of variation are considered to have very negligible or no effect on the survival of the State Fund. I suggest, sir, a respectable president, that this bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-14-10.u22	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct the change in income tax laws. The subject of the bill is a partner's balance and the bill is presented to address the comments of the EFTA that Icelandic rules of cataplexy and the use of the disposal of partners lost may conflict with 31st and 40s. The EEA Convention on Confirm rights and free flow of capital. I'm putting this bill here for the fourth time, but this is the first time where only one subject of the revised bill is needed to make these changes. This brings me to the point that in the early bill there were other subjects to distribute, which did not protect comments from the EFTA Institute of Control. The bill contains suggestions for a change of 55 g. Law on income taxes, No. 90/2003. It is suggested that partners in the European Economic Area (ES) Member States or in the Faeroe Islands, located here in the country, be allowed to have a match with local contours. It is also suggested that a local mother-friendly partner be allowed to request a limited match with her daughter members documented within one Member State of the EEA, a Member State of the European Free Trade Association or the Faeroe Islands stock agreement, as all common conditions of taxation are met otherwise. Changes in regulations were made at 55 C.E. track No. 90/2003 by law on changing the law from action against tax returns and tax frauds, No. 77/2018, in the spring Summit of 2018, which included a staff of members in the EU Member States and in the Faeroes, located in Iceland, was permitted a taxation by domestic partner organisations. According to the EFTA monitoring centre, these changes did not go far enough, since ESA comments had also turned to corresponding taxation in the case of foreign partners. It is also suggested that a domestic motherhood will be permitted to request a limited taxation with its daughter members documented in one Member State of the European Economic Area or the Faeroe Islands, as all conditions of the same taxation are otherwise met. This proposal is based on the judgment of the EFTA Court in the E-15/16, which dealt with Yara International ASA, but having agreed with the EFTA monitoring facility, was decided to submit this change when it was established that all conditions for restricted taxation were met. This is an exception that should be interpreted narrowly and is not intended to be better handled under these circumstances than for national legislation. In view of the comments made by the surveillance agency, it is finally suggested to remove conditions set by law no. 77/2018, for example, that the loss of a permanent work station is only deductible for an Icelandic partner that it is not possible to balance it with a permanent foreign partner. According to the European Court's premeditation in the case of C-18/11, involving Philip Electra Ltd., there is such a limit to the right to use the loss of inhibition of legal rights. It is estimated that the regulations of the bill will carry at least some additional cost. to a shorter time, where a contract will be opened using the domestic components that cover the landstones and use of final losses in a foreign partner. However, there is no way to assess this effect in crowns at this stage but it will be manifested as a decrease in income tax due to integration and the use of loss of traffic within the kit immediately, which would otherwise have been observed over a longer period of time. A respectable president. To this end, I suggest that the bill be referred to why. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-14-10.u23	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to legalise the validation of the 2020 state bill in accordance with the legal requirements for public finances. State account is made on the basis of so-called IPSAS status. A government viewer's signature is without warning, but with a tip on the induction of changed accounts, where some standards are still to be introduced. In 2020, the date of directorship was based on a government account negative by 144 billion dollars. The total income was 802 billion, of which income was 655 billion. Costs for funding were about 990 billion, of which 462 billion were runoffs. and pay and pay related fees 279 billion k. Costs above income were 46 billion, a interest rate of some 61 billion. and interest by about 15 billion dollars. A partner's share was positive about 90 billion dollars. The financial balance of the state's budget has taken a significant turn in recent years, including As a result of the delinquency of permanent funds, the largest property teams are now holding at a value of 1,077 billion, a transport construction of 641 billion dollars. 256 billion dollars and property. According to economic accounts, a total of 2,613 billion dollars, debt, and commitments totaled about 2,330 billion, of which the long - term debt is 1,085 billion. Money at the end of the year is 283 billion. The implementation of the state bill is published according to the government accounting standard, IPSAS, as mentioned earlier, but the total financial and financial recovery is published according to the local labour market, called GFS standard. Both methods are designed to ensure compliance and international control capacity. Thus, the contribution of the state funds according to government accounts is not comparable to financial and financial objectives. In each Member State account, a special statement is published, where the results are stratified according to the GFS category of budgetary values and found to be negative for 218 billion, according to the Economic Affairs assessment. The recovery by the GFS standard is 208 billion inferior to the original budget of 2020. However, reports from updated schedules as published by the fifth budget of 2020 were presented here at the Council of the autumn Month 2020, with a positive result of 53 billion, i.e. when compared with up-to-date schedules. A worldwide crowning virus had a significant impact on the survival of the year. The stable financial status of the epidemic was used to reduce economic and social damage and to lay the groundwork for the economic resistance. The government presented in 2020 tools to help support the economic protection, protection and forestry of households and companies directly. These provisions included direct expenses for the state's funds, in the form of tools, the tax system. We introduced sources to postponement of tax payment from year to year, and eventually the state's funds were turned into responsibilities that may later be experienced as financial expenses. Specific economic measures designed to counteract the effects of the epidemic were developed. The effect of Covid-19 measures on the state funds was about 80 billion. in 2020. This added an automatic response to the tax and unemployment reform system to more than 92 billion dollars. This means that despite the much worse prospects of the income side via the tax system and much more expectations for unemployment, action was not taken, e.g. However, insurance was not raised, it was temporarily reduced, in 2021, but in 2020 it had recently dropped. This allowed an automatic response to the tax and reform systems to do their own good, to be said. Besides, a special effort in investment was under way and 15 billion were added. in a special effort on the investment side During the year, five allowances were adopted, four of them in the early year to provide and finance various measures under the pandemic, and the last ones arrived at the end of the year. A respectable president. In view of the effects of a pandemic, it can be said that despite a strong status at the end of 2020, a government account shows that there is a financial status at the end of the year. Nevertheless, the negative impact of the epidemic on the management work of 2020 is considerable and will be marked by the survival and debt of the state's funds for the next few years. Therefore, it is important to keep in mind the efforts of the government to cope effectively with the epidemic's impacts without considering the cost of action in future generations. It was the right decision to use the terms of the government when the epidemic struck, and this policy has contributed to the more powerful resistance we see today. Now, however, it is important to view cost growth lightly and to support responsible management. Thus we trust the basis once again to face unexpected events in the future, as we have done in the past few months. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to the budget committee and to the 2nd. to end this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-14-10.u24	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Economic and financial ministers for this review. I notice that according to a government account, there were actual investments in 2020 a total of 37.4 billion lower than sources given during the year, which may in fact not have been as successful as the lawgiver and the financial authority had expected to produce funds for public investments. This is natural when a pandemic outbreak occurs and a private person is held in hand, and the more important it is for the State to step in. Now it's got the highest. The financial and economic minister often talked about success in dealing with the economic impacts of the pandemic because we stood on a solid foundation, but I might want to reflect on the question of being unconcerned, if we did not succeed in using the government as an investment when the crash came and when we really had to step in while the private people were holding hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-14-10.u25	A respectable president. I think that in general, we have in itself done what we could to stimulate our investment level. However, much can be learned from that time. In particular, I think we can learn that when we want to, with very short hours, on a short notice, a huge amount of public investment, it can be a big problem. Hence, it happened in 2020 that some of the funds that the General decided to enter the 2020 budget moved into 2021. We saw a considerable change in the state's investment level during 2021. The investment rate was somewhat high, even though individual investment teams as if they were up to expectations in that year. What I think we can learn primarily from this is that it is important to be well prepared, to have complete design, and, including, in the organizational context, activities that we would want to do for a long time, that we are not always at the last rotation of a project to come next. We seem to find that a formal process can take a lot longer than we expect here at the council. However, this is how it turns out that the second quarter of our year was 2020 when we decided to make a big investment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-14-10.u26	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. In fact, it is sobering to think that it is only when the economy and the private sector that the public investment takes place properly. As the National Bank analysis department goes on to show the Habitat's figures that public investment campaigns never replaced professional investments when it went down. The changes in commercial and public investments have actually been very careful that since the year 2019, which could hardly be considered a very reasonable economy. There is probably something we will learn from them in the future. I was wondering if there's a secretary of finance like that. Afterward, it would have been possible to do more to protect the investment capacity of the rural communities. It is often filled with projects that may have been more powerful in 2020. I'd love to hear the perspective. Minister on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-14-10.u27	A respectable president. We supported certain projects that the rural community considered important in; otherwise, it was a big deal to consider how to deal with the community's ideas of support. A request was made for 50 billion contributions to the rural areas in the capital area, which was to become some kind of injection or gift to those who, in turn, proved to be just financial favors in a dry country. Money did not mix as much as men feared, and it was difficult to cope with such wishes. But I'm worried that the investment level of the rural society has paid and that's, I think, a lot of things that can stand a closer look from the investments of the public financial sector, both state and rural society. As an example here, I could take it that we have been reimbursed on counciling, on Skulag Street, and although we have fully developed ideas and we know exactly what we're going to do, and these are just floors in office halls, the process is so planned and all the preparation is so persistent that it does not look as if the Ministry can get settled there and be fully operational until even in the second quarter of the year 2023. There's outland conditions, there's a lot of deadlines, and then there's all the design, and there's the rest of that after all of this, which makes a decision that's been made for a whole year will not run out until after one and a half years from now. It's just a small office floor. We can't easily come to work tens of billions in advance, and there's a lot that plays in there.
