ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u1	To answer, Prime Minister, Economic and Economic Ministers, Transport and Regional Ministers, Environmental and Resource Ministers and Health Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u2	Mr. President. In recent interviews, the highest levels have been reported. Health secretary has been saying that a large project for the next terms will be required to improve the health system and fix the nursing facilities. It is the same minister who spoke about four years ago that they had come to the government to save the health system. Yet, there has been no improvement in the nursing staff base, even though the entire ultimatum was missing. Waiting lists have become the longest in the system. The safety of women has been disturbed by massive cervical damage. During the last few days, 985 doctors have sent a call to the government against prolonged apathy toward the health system, and Iceland's State Department of Light Marys has sent a memo that warns against entering emergency care during the summer. This serious situation certainly requires failure, and the Conspiracy wants a great deal of structure in the health system. But now VG is going to enter the election with a promise to do this for the health system during the next term they planned for the last four years. They're going to do this in the same administrative pattern, despite the fact that management personnel are now shooting at a health minister and saying, for example, "Subjects." that the Independence Party cannot participate in a government that continues the Health Minister's policy despite the five-year financial programme in the present government to take action on the resurgence of 120 billion, called in human terms either cut-offs or tax increases. The question is, how do you intend to go to the top? Will a minister be effective in solving these enormous problems in the years ahead in cooperation with a group that is completely at odds with what needs to be done in this important issue?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u3	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Flira Einarsson, who decides to ask me about health matters, though at the height of my life. There is a health minister here who will likely be best available in this room to discuss the health status of the country. But I must first correct matters. A senator when he comes up here and pretends that nothing has been done about health during this terms, since nothing is further away. The fact is, there has been an increase in health expenses each year during this ideal period. That's a fact. The fact is, they have increased, not only in a dollar, but also as a proportion of GDP. The fact is, the current health minister has done what many have said he would have done, and that is taking real steps to make the health care department the first stop in the system, something we've been talking about in this hall for 13 years, at least Ever since I was elected to a council, something that has been observed repeatedly in policy decisions and decisions but is now being done. So the health care has been greatly strengthened, and we now see a completely different type of service with increasing teamwork and a much wider variety of services. Current health care ministers have decreased the cost of patients. There's a case we didn't discuss very little during the last term, and the last and the last and the last. And for the first time, the cost of patients in Iceland has become comparable to what happens in the North, but was much higher in this terms. Are There Undeserved Care Factors? Yes, it is a huge group of paintings, and it will grow, especially since its population age is changing. And that, of course, has to do with what is discussed in the nursing home, which is going to be a big matter. I think we're gonna do what. A member of the United States agrees that there is a need not only for further financial support but also for more varied resources. But there is no way to come up and act as if there was a station in health care, for that certainly is not the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u4	Mr. President. V.E.G. The prime minister refuses to answer the direct question. I took an example from the medical system. I might as well have talked like that. for a nation of highlands in which groups of people at all odds are trying to work together, and this is being delayed over and over again. We know what it means when you are always trying to use the same means to get things through without changing your methodology. The question was, How does the Supreme One feel? ▪ Does it really work to solve these extremely important and difficult issues in cooperation with a group that completely disagrees with the left green and the health - care minister's policies? Is it not more likely to try other methodologies and try to work with groups that share her opinion?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u5	Mr. President. It's not that I turn away from answering questions, but of course I must correct the reasons for the question if I consider them to be wrong. Let's get out of here. The senator could tell the wrong opinion that there was no medical intervention here during the election season and that the policy was not maintained. A health minister announced at the beginning of a optimal period. The building hospital finally set off. At last, the patient's cost factor has gone down in line with the rest of the North countries. The health care I mentioned earlier, etc. Even though it was. A senator may want to get me on a political interview in these unsubstantiated i am not going to go there, although it may be a good TV material for those who are excited about this unprepared period of inquiry. [[Up front.]] Of course, the big issue of this is that the left movement of the United States has provided a clear policy for this series of elections, and it has been successful under the highest leadership. Secretary of health. That's the big deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u6	President. During a discussion on the debate of the prime minister in September 2017, a few months before she took over the office of prime minister, the above stated: "Look! paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter regarding the government of Bjarni son of Benediktsson that governments should not ask poor people in Iceland to wait for justice. President. On June 20, 2018, the U.S. legislator expressed how microenergy pensioners living in another EEA country have had to live with illegal impairments for a decade and even longer. The Ministry of Social Affairs confirmed this decision and promised correction. Today, more than three years later, hundreds of cripples are still waiting for justice. More than half of those who experienced illegal impairment are still waiting for their promised correction. 96 of them died while awaiting righteousness. Only a few months before the highest. By permission of the president, the prime minister of the current government said: ▪ Officials must never refer to a dominant system to support a waiting period of righteousness. Politicians need to be prepared to make constant use of justice and to change the system if necessary. Otherwise, people's trust in democratic society is a threat, and that responsibility is something that all of us must shoulder. Now these people are still waiting. So it is not easy to see that it is the highest. Ministers have applied themselves sufficiently to justice. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is it because the minister has not wanted to use it or has not been able to use his hands in a government with the Supreme Opportunities? Minister of Bjarni son of Benediktsson is holding the purse?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u7	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. So I'll come in first as a dog. A senator mentioned here regarding the poor living conditions, which were unsolvable, and unfortunately I can't exactly answer them. A senator when the correction will end, of course, at the hands of an insurance agency and the highest. Minister of Social Affairs and Child Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u8	...answers the question?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u9	I'm here to answer the question. Hv. A senator must remain calm while I answer it. V.E.G. The Minister of Social Affairs will take this party and I expect it to be won. It is not a government's unwillingness to correct these poor bones. Rather, it is a legitimate act as the Minister of Social Affairs has repeatedly reviewed them here at the Assembly Hall. Hv. A senator also asks, implying that during the election season, nothing was done in the affairs of microbubbles. Of course, that's not true. Senator. There has been a decrease in economic declines, which has been one of the biggest interests and struggles of the Corporate Community. That was now, but we hadn't been moving since they were put on 10 to 12 years ago. They were withdrawn. Similarly, at the same time, it was under attack to reduce the number of failures between sides. The objective of this adjustment and change was to increase the income of the most incomeless group within the group of disability. Still, a complete review of the non-recognition system, an evil sound of my knowledge, can be seen when history is examined and the income of different groups, for the development of the elderly and the desperate, is being observed by desperate palaces to form with regard to the elderly. This is the case. It is very important to complete this overall review. I hope it will be done early in the next term. Yet, here it is not possible to speak as if an important battle of disability was not being met, which is just about to reduce the degree of impairment and make this system more beneficial and just.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u10	President. V.E.G. Prime Minister is well - trained and very clever in not answering questions asked. I wasn't saying anything about disability. I was just saying that there was a bunch of microorganisms waiting for correction and waiting for justice. In this famous discourse in 2017, when Prime Minister said that the government should not ask poor people in Iceland to wait for justice, she said that the same applies to refugees who are looking for them. This is said to be true two months before going to the government with the Independence Party. paritaprevir Sigríður Á. Andersen of the Ministry of Justice. Clearly, then, the highest priority has not been high. Minister to employ justice in the pursuit of escape. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister who at least claims to be interested in strengthening the confidence of the democratic society: What is the responsibility of the minister when it comes to simply keeping his word? In the light of history, how can the nation believe one word as the highest? Minister now say for an election?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u11	Mr. President. I'm not gonna make it a talker or whatever. A senator, although she prefers to bring up some of these faddlers, who, of course, are nothing more than faddlers. The fact is, as I went over the past, that the most lucrative groups in this society have been met by reducing the taxes on the most lucrative groups, by increasing the child benefits to the most efficient groups, by attacking specific improvements in both the elderly and the desperate ones within the social security system. There are facts. A senator can't get the wrong way, so he talks. In the case of refugees, a period of treatment in this country has been reduced in this ideal time period. During this ideal period, more people have been welcomed than has previously been. There are more and more people here than there are in the North countries. That's what's really happened, chief. President, no matter what.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u12	A respectable president. The importance of the fishing road is not covered by anyone. We're a fishing nation, and we've always been that way. Because of the great importance of the ocean's resources, it is very important that we protect them and that their use is transparent and based on reasonableness. We do know, however, that the price of fish in this country is constant. As long as there are no natural explanations, it causes suspicion. The official price for fish used in the calculation of fishing costs and inflation to sailors is 27% lower than the value of the fish. Thus, both the nation and the sailors are affected when it comes to the resource. Because this has been the source of controversy for so many years, and even decades, we have suggested that this assessment be simply taken from the hands of politicians and the market itself, that a section of quathane will be marketed every year, and the market will receive an answer to the key question of what is truly worthwhile. Just as we trust the markets in many areas of human life, so do we. While the currency is debated, there is absolutely no doubt that the use of marine plants is far higher than in other fields. In such circumstances, an increased effect on the hands of the individuals mentioned in this article is increasing. On December 17 of this year, we were asked for a report. for the possession of the largest commercial structure in the country. This report, this overview is necessary to shed light on the real influence of people who have the exclusive right to the use of their resources in Icelandic employment and community. This exact effect is important, especially before elections. But the report won't fail, despite the coming elections. That's why I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister, responsible for this important government - controlled value of the nation: Will this information be published as soon as possible and preferably before elections? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u13	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. First, I want to say that I don't know exactly where this report is, and I don't understand it either, I know the highest. Minister requested deadlines. But I'll get them a message to the highest. Minister. I agree with what. Senator I think it's very important to get this report out. I think it's only natural for the Ministers to look for ways to deal with it when the General directs them for reports and they're expected to meet such requests. And if there is any basis for such requests to take longer in the process, counsellors should make it known to the council, as I had to do about a specific request from time to time. paritaprevir The bear of Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. They are to be recognized by the Generals. I don't know what the situation is at the highest level. Marine and agricultural ministers, but I'm going to deliver these messages, and I agree with that. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir is that it is important to get this out in view of the fact that the request was submitted and approved by the Council. Then I'd like to say that there was another report from the highest level. European and agricultural secretary for the state of the Icelandic Seaway, which is very good, considering the situation in this country, also in international comparison. It is remarkable to see both domestic and marine properties, what has been done to reduce emissions in domestic seas, and how the trend has been made for profit. A senator mentions. There is a good foundation in the data that I think will be useful to all political groups, although their conclusions may vary as to what is suggested. But in that regard, I think we should set very clear goals, both in the role of the marine road in society and environment and, of course, in the economy, as well. There's a senator here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u14	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for this. This is important, especially in view of the fact that in the Treaty, we need to increase the respect of the council, and I would like to ask a prime minister to apply himself in these last days of the government that this report will show. It is a key part of a map of Icelandic factory and their company's daughter's companies in Icelandic employment. This is not to be delayed because we need that clear picture. We've been confronted with political groups putting reports under chairs just before elections, and there's no such thing as a waste of time. I would like to stress that it is important in these matters that we continue to talk about how we use and associate with the resources. I'd like to underscore our policy in enforcing that we feel that it is important in this view to get our report forward but, at the same time, to insist on our repeated agreements and that the nation will receive a natural fee. [[The president calls.]] This natural price is best obtained by linking the market with it, trusting the market rather than by allowing politicians, political parties, which are actually in the back rooms what the nation's real thing is. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u15	Mr. President. Because this is the beginning of a debate over the policies of the classes in this ideal unprepared time of inquiry, I'd like to say, "It's too dangerous to post all available resources for auctions." We need to keep in mind the danger of contributing to such refinements, such as pa·rou·siʹa. A senator knows, for we do not want to risk more fishing compression, and we also need to examine the structural effects. In terms of the time-separation of sources, I recommended myself for a bill submitted by the then marine emissary and agricultural minister, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, and was very opposed here in this hall when it was submitted to the temporary binding of labours through innovation agreements. [[Up front.]] I allow me to recall that the present political opposition to the Independence Party is at hand. A senator now knows something about it at the time, and the forwarding party was against the timing of contracts at that time, and unfortunately, no more was expected to be done to that matter. In this regard, perhaps it would have been possible to point the way to the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u16	A respectable president. The doctrine of the trilocation of the state is traced down to the 18th century by philosophers and scholars, and I'm particularly going to talk about Montesquieu and his book on the law. I do it because I'm worried about where we're headed as a community. I'm worried about our legal life. I just hate to see it, now that we can boast that we have a third sentence, the middle level that was called after, that the situation has become the state of our fourth judgment level, completely unsupervised, and that is the court of the street. Why? Why is it that individuals are moved to present their case and problems to a court of the street? This is because our justice system, our justice system, our judicial system, is failing these people. We see victims of sex and violence that have no alternative but to consult the courts, so it is of no importance that the person who lands to himself, whether he is guilty or innocent, is cut off. It's as simple as that. This is what we're looking at repeatedly, we say we're based on democracy, we live in republics, we say we have a state of justice. That's why I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: What can we do? I believe that with all my heart to the highest. The prime minister is concerned about this development, and we as lawmakers must respond. We must do something and send a message. We live in a state of justice, we have a court order, we have general penalties, and we have laws against violating them. Why don't we put our arms around these things and try to keep them in order before we just look at our legal state down in front of our eyes? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u17	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. There may be two things I find important to discuss in this context. Right away. A member of this body referred to sexual abuse as a sexual offense at the beginning of this election period was immediately under operation to support the government's investigation and treatment of sexual abuse. Of course, it takes time to be successful. But both efforts were made to promote law enforcement and additional financial resources were made to add the standards of the police to enable all the local police authorities to be equipped for the investigation and treatment of sexual abuses. Special funds were put into regulations and research equipment. The regional prosecutor's office was also strengthened by two new positions to promote the treatment of sexual abuse. Similarly, the office of the State Attorney General for Education and Jobs was organized to strengthen the office of the State's Office for Development and Development. Besides, we've been working on prevention measures to prevent the lesions of sexual assault in our society and condition. A senator, along with all others, participated in it. Councilmen, to approve here of a very ambitious, premeditated program for the next year into the school system. Here was a treatment at the last hearing of the Department of Justice for changing criminal treatments to improve the rights of perjury, so the Minister of Justice has applied to these matters throughout the ideal period as well as to other Ministers in the field of education, social and health, because this is a legal case that needs to be improved. But on the other hand, in the case of a community media event, that's what it is. A senator refers to this, but at the same time, technology changes have caused the discussion to change, of course, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u18	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answer. Actually, it's in the answer. Clearly, when it comes to listing all the good that has been done to try to handle and help the people who suffer the disaster of sexual violence, physical violence, or any other violence, we are seeing people simply decommissioned in society. That's a fact. They are decommissioned in the community without our ability to represent the current rights and to judge them for the alleged offense they are given to them because they have committed. Away from the fact that we live in social media, and such practices do not change the fact that somewhere, for example, we must be able to create rules that apply to this situation. Those who accuse individuals must be responsible, e.g. To say it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I don't feel that it's possible in a state of justice that we just remove people without a court order. [[The president calls.]] Our legal rights were not built, nor were they the goal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u19	Mr. President. As I came here at the end of my first answer, it is just the same time that we live in a completely different environment from what was. Of course, not everything they say is true, and it is difficult for people to evaluate what is true and true. But that is how free talk is, and we must protect it. Under all circumstances, we must protect our freedom of expression. What we can do, however, is to support the state of justice, and I considered what has been specifically done about sexual immorality. But do not forget that it is not long ago because of the circumstances. A senator named here an institution of the National Court, which was also a member of the United States. Set up to meet the criticism that existed that would not reevaluate proof of the Supreme Court. That, of course, is an enormous step toward the advancement of our legal state. So now I have to say, because of it. A senator expressed concern about the state of justice: Iceland's feet are stable. That is what we have been doing, and in recent years we have been taking good steps to strengthen its position.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u20	V.E.G. President. Last October a report entitled Increased Production and Health Services with a new financing system and Guideline Guidelines was published. This report shows that it was published according to the health policy set here. So it was decided to introduce a service-related financing system based on an international classification system we call DRG. The system is intended for the purchase of all hospital services, and to sort them as purchases, as well as the equivalent of a private operating outside of hospitals as well as the public system. I'd like to allow myself to quote here indirectly to the highest degree. A health minister who in the introduction says that everyone is aware that the future design of the Icelandic health system is a real challenge. Therefore, it is necessary to speed up this induction, where it can now be said that money needs to be used wisely, both in the care and support of the ministry. I'm saying this because we've just been reading in the emergency medical centres at the emergency hospital, including those of obstetrics and gynecologists in connection with the screening language called and other sources within the system. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Where is the induction today? How much money has been given to her? How much is it gonna take to complete the induction? And I'd like to ask about the time line as well as the answers to the bottom line. The health secretary will respond to the emergency medical care system.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u21	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry, which is somewhat broad, focuses mainly on the financing system known as DRG. The induction of this system is doing well. The situation is, in fact, that computer systems are becoming ready and the induction is due in the year 2022 for hospitals, i.e. For the Hospital and the Hospital in Akureyri. I suppose that's going to work, the plan is to work. DRG in itself does not affect the mansions, either negative or positive, because I noticed why. A senator linked the coverage of manure to the introduction of DRG. However, in line with health policy, I would like to say that the design and education of health - care professionals are one of the biggest challenges to the future and one of the major degrees of health care. In line with this, we have set up the National Council on Education and Design in Health Care Services, where our main educational institutions and our health institutions are assembled to put together strings for future vision and for the building of educational programs, etc. in the field of health care. Regarding DRG, Iceland's Medical insurance will negotiate its components and make a deal with the relevant parties. The future view is, of course, that it is the same in contracts with private citizens as with those who are now serving on the basis of financial laws. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u22	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. In explanation, I give an introduction to the highest. Secretary of the October issue of Mckinseyr's report, stated in the report that the cost of specific instructions will be available in units with high fluctuations in the distance time or costs within the analysis set. It contains, for example, refers to mental - health disorders, rehabilitations, or gerontologists. These are the departments we always want to finance. So I'd like to go to the highest. Ministers according to the plan to meet this unpredictable situation that we know is at hand and is increasing, when it is claimed in this report that such funding will not be hidden within the system, this DRG system, because it is large.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u23	A respectable president. I still appreciate it. A senator's inquiry. It's and it's going to be a very important thing. A senator pulled out here, with the transfer to the increased emphasis on DRG funding, which, of course, will also come to the roll and enter the board at the time. The budget is increasing. But it will never be so that the DRG will be disposed of of of all kinds of health care. Like what? A senator right here draws it to create us for rehabilitation services, as well as perhaps primarily for mental health care at all levels, because we do not have a comparable unit system that is easy to transfer to the DRG model. So it will still be that any part of the funding of the system will be in the current way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u24	A respectable president. There are the waiting lists of the medical system. They have not diminished during this terms, but they have greatly extended despite the beautiful promises at the beginning of this period. The situation is serious. And now independents try to write down all responsibility for health care in the country. V.E.G. A health minister must now smile at other things when reading them, for she knows well that while writing in the Morning Press, they still vote for a left - green direction, no matter what. But the waiting lists are not unexpected. We know exactly what the ministry is being accomplished, and we also know what must be done to expand our ministry. But then what happened at the top of the watch. Governments? Recently, the secretary changed the fact that a written physical therapist and speech pathologist cannot reach a contract with Iceland's Medical Insurance until after two years of work, although they have a land surgeon's license. Some medical therapists in one lab have a 300 to400 waiting list for a speech pathologist to go up to three years - three years, e.g. In the life of a child. There are two years waiting at the State Analysis and Advisor Centre, and now there are nearly 700 children on the waiting list at the Development and Behavior Center. These are all children on this waiting list that I'm talking about. A respectable president. The waiting period for hip and joint replacement operations has increased by less than 40 in the terms of this government. So I want to reiterate, and I want to make it more specific because I know this minister, this second fine minister, and the people behind the titles, that before the Minister gives the answer that it's all private business, there's no one, I, no one in Recursion, no one here calling for the state to give up responsibility for health care, no one. Don't go out of your way. My question to the highest. A minister is: How do we see a minister seeing to it that it can be improved during the coming election period, that it is possible to get a waiting period of time so that we remember people's feelings and meet people with a real service to the State's responsibilities as well as at the invitation of most people?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u25	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the guidance not to twist my answer and wondered what would give the senator reason to believe that my answer will be in that way. Recently I returned a report to the council on the consequences of Covid-19 waiting for the health services of the system. It shows that the situation is actually better than fear, though Covid-19 has really affected the waiting period for service. In particular, it is to say that waiting for mental - health care has increased slightly. Also, temporary closures for Covid-19 have been most relevant, but e.g. has been waiting for the ADHD analysis of the BUGL to last, so there are now various ways of doing this. The bioavailability of mental - health services has also been greatly increased in the history of this government by the proliferation of psychiatrists and the establishment of mental health in all health problems. It's been my goal to expand the services of psychiatrists and physical therapists in the country. In addition, there has been a special budget spent in negotiations with independent psychologists, and this contract is currently being completed, but also on cross-cutive mental - health services to children for whom there is special reason to watch. Hv. A senator also asks about a long - standing change that has been worrying about for years. For long periods of time, a particularly earmarked amount of cash has been used to work on waiting lists for replacement operations. They were slightly prolonged to Covid and we are about to have a special effort to shorten that waiting period. I hope there's a way I can explain it here in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u26	A respectable president. V.E.G. Prior to this, the prime minister said that there is no station in health care, and that is true in that sense, so that waiting lists have not been reduced, they have not been replaced. They've gotten longer. There is no station for waiting lists. There's a waiting list on the top. We don't have to look far for why it is, it's the political decisions of the government that have led to it. They're hiding behind Covid for replacement surgery. This was a condition that was long realized for Covid, but nothing done to bring everyone up on deck here in the country to relieve suffering and reduce the waiting list. I want to reiterate these figures: There is a three-year waiting for a speech pathologist, two-year waiting for an analysis at the State's Diameter and Advisory Centre, 700 children are waiting for the Development and Behavioral Institute, and then there are the natural replacement operations. I'd especially like to bring out the Psychological Service. The need has increased after Covid, especially in children, young people and women. [[The president calls.]] That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: Will Ministers change their views on contracts with independent psychologists to greatly promote psychiatric health care and thereby reduce the waiting list for mental - health services? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u27	A respectable president. I'll just have to start by referring it completely to the Fathers that there was nothing here made a page up and a page down. Hv. A senator here begins this relationship with us by giving me a complete sense of outbacks and then being so self-explosive in a different word, and it's not very comfortable. I hope that we will agree on the importance of improving mental - health services, and I have been looking for ways to improve it, both in public and even more, in setting aside special funds to negotiate with independent activities. A senator knows that. I'd like to mention a replacement site that will be set up at the hospital at the Acdéri hospital, and it'll probably be in February 2022. There will be an increase of 320 annual measures at the hospital at the National Institute of Health at Aranesp. [[The president calls.]] That'll make this situation much better, and I hope we can celebrate.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u28	Mr. President. The sales of 35% of the government at Iceland Bank have been severely criticized. V.E.G. By means of the sale, a government has invited the richest Icelanders and foreign investment funds to a feast at the expense of the public. V.E.G. The Secretary of Economics decided to sell banks in subsidies, a bank that had given billions of dollars of government funds in the past few years, thus strengthening the welfare community. Selling banks at subsidies to pay off debts of low interest is an insane financial regime. The government's tenure policies say that sales of banks require long - term government funds and that long - term requisite property should be maintained. It's not obvious to the highest. A minister has failed to attract the bank a suitable sponsor with interest for long-term banking and customer service, a strong sponsor who knows how to handle banking, as a white book suggested by the government itself made the sale a last resort? Ásgeir Brynjar Torfason, a doctor of finance, asks in a fine article in the morning the benefit of the Icelandic client friends of the bank, the pension fund, or the Icelandic financial market over the head because Abu Dabi's National Fund, or the kingdom of Saudi Arabia, can come to this country and achieve 20-425% gain in one week. The highest. A minister will answer that? And the cost of the public is all healed by decision making at the highest level. Minister and government selling banks at subservation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u29	A respectable president. They now compete to explain to us that we sold a bank at too low a price that said that the bank could not be sold because it would not be worth enough. These are the people that all opposed them for the reason that circumstances do not offer them. But we kept up our pace and showed that the demand was high enough and that it was high, and we reached our main goals by obtaining stocks in Iceland Bank. I'd like to remind you here in the beginning that this is a bank that we in the government I was involved with at the time of the claimors, free of charge. Now we know the value of the non-selling holdings of the state. We have used the market to obtain the ultimate price, and it turns out that we have likely been underestimated by this property, even though we have now sold on the market the price of the State. I call attention to the fact that with what has been sold, the state has only sold about that. 12.5% of our financial assets, but for the sale, we were the biggest owner in Europe. There are those who don't want to see financial companies unless they belong to the state, now or owned a pension fund. But I believe that the public involvement of the people in the country, through registration, the Sale Hall, is good. That's not true at all. According to one senator, the priorities were not set for those with the most money. On the contrary, the only people who were not affected were the people who offered to buy $50,000. or up to 1 million of their savings in this way. [[The president calls.]] So it was prioritive for those who had been remembered to offer in this assignment, which went very well, and the Kingdom is far better behind. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u30	Mr. President. I thought it must be quite disappointing for the highest. Ministers that those who criticized the plans and now selling have, in fact, been right all along, to the highest level. The minister would have expected something else. But no, it's not. He's thrilled. It is not surprising that participation in the invitation was excellent, for a portion of a lucrative property was being given. Investment was given to the public as a gift, and it is only a banker's grant to sell some of the bank's items at the price sold by buyers to the level of more than a few days later. Doesn't it mean that new owners, regardless of their current status or status, make higher fruit requirements and that bank customers - most of them didn't afford to participate in the auction because not all of the people have a million to hang on the table to buy a discount price in the bank - would have to pay for the new owners' fees with higher interest and services to the bank? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u31	A respectable president. It was there in the last words that we saw in the left cheek of the United States, the cheek that doesn't believe that a financial company can have a private foundation, i.e. in the public market, the organization that only believes that such things are to be done by the state, and that its property should be used in financial institutions to set a good name for the people. Probably going to some type of zero business. It was exactly this ideologies that could have appeared before the sale. Don't come here after the sale, talk about the price being not high enough. You're not talking about it. You're talking about the fact that you just don't want these things to be marketed, even if you've been in the government and announced 30% of sales of the government property in Iceland Bank. The people who don't want to sell banks are just to tell them straight. [[Up front.]] The methodology used in this case, this case, the sale of the government property in Iceland, was drawn up during the United States government era. [[The president calls.]] The law on the Bank Office, the methodology used - exactly the Union's formula from the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u32	Use the same methodology to get the right market price...
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u34	The president asks the senators to remain calm in the chamber and not exchange their opinions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u35	A respectable president. In a report by the signed and more members of the Parliament on the effects of the Korean virus on a waiting list in the health system, a special request was made to address the development of waiting lists after the crowning virus epidemic has developed, as well as the methods used to limit the growth of a waiting list and to work down the waiting list in the future. The report shows that in women and other women, waiting lists have increased by 102% and 118%, respectively. In addition, there is an increase in the waiting list 94% for cholelithiasis, 78% for lens surgery, 67% for knee replacement surgery and 64% for hip replacement, all due to Covid-19. For the challenge team, the increase was 50.9% and for the ADHD team, the waiting list is 43.4% for Covid-19. For the challenge team, the wait has been from 18.4 weeks to 44.7 weeks or from three months to nearly 11 months. This is because of housing problems, number of employees, Covid-19, recruitment, decomposition and training. In a group of depression and anxiety, there is a lack of professionals who prolong the waiting list and slow down the intake of new subjects. The number of waiting for the Psychological Service on February 1, 2020, was 539, whereas 2021 was 1,344 left 539 to 1344. More of the health institutions in the region also consider the increase in waiting lists to be due to people's quality rather than to Covid-19. That's why I'm asking the highest. Health Minister: Is the health - care system beyond limits? [[The president calls.]] Is the list of people who are now waiting for action a threat? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u36	A respectable president. For the most part, the Icelandic healthcare system has passed this tolerance test performed by Covid-19 as well. In fact, Icelandic society has successfully passed this challenge test. There are a set of measures and measures to evaluate the health status and strength of the health system and on such measures the most important health care system is the Icelandic health care system. We can do even better, but it is perfectly clear that we are now in the middle of the year 2021, after the pandemic season for our fine system, perfectly normal for us to face challenges. This is perfectly normal, in part, due to Covid, in part because for years our system has been facing challenges both in financing and in caring for. Our health - care staff, who have refused much time off, has come to work to screen, to vaccinate, to meet patients, to stay awake, is the staff in an Icelandic community that deserves a great debt of gratitude and deep understanding on our part. These staff are also under pressure every day, too, the debate that is about the fact that the health system is coming up, because they really are down, like all our good people, our system is down. [[The president calls.]] But like other aspects of society, we live in the foundation of a well - being, particularly strong and powerful health system.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u37	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A health minister for the answers. I can't help but agree with her; health care professionals truly deserve praise by Covid-19. Is there a problem, though, with the attention of the health - care providers? Is it because of stress, cold work, and so do few graduates as well as for Covid-19? How does that affect us? We know that there are ten specialists in the emergency department of the Land Hospital - ten. It must be dangerous. It is Iceland's health insurance to negotiate a Covid-19 rehabilitation service, which has a long waiting list, and some institutions have agreed to reduce the number of treatment courses each person has in place to get more involved. It must ring bells. And is it not a concern when a person hears a woman say that she's supposed to be in the cervix soon, that she says she doesn't have the courage to be screened because she's afraid the vision will be lost? She's afraid to leave, and she's not leaving until it's done so that the whole process takes place here at home.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u38	A respectable president. There is a particular concern that the World Health Organization has pointed out, now that the world's nations are dealing with pandemic immunizations and may be experiencing different types of spiritual distress that plague the nations. It is a special concern and emphasis for the World Health Organization that asks the nations to look especially at mental health and mental - health professionals, but especially at health care professionals. Therefore, most important of all, what we talked about earlier, me and the other, is very important. A senator, the health - care worker under the pressures that all of us have had to face. This design is a place of health care. Therefore, when health care professionals are concerned, I must pay attention to the concerns they present and present, when it announces that they want to continue developing the system for good. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u39	Mr. President. I refer to the transport contract made between the State and six rural communities in the capital area signed in September 2019 on behalf of the State of the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance. What identifies this capital contract on transportation, of course, is that the city line is one at the top of the list, but the waterway is very low, if it is above the top. The morning issue will hardly be opened any other than that it will be handled by experts in the capital area. I refer specifically to the interest group on transport for all who have presented a version of what they call a light city line and that will cost 20 billion compared to the estimated 100 billion for the current city-line concept, including at the scene of the official community that we discussed the longest in our time. It has been reported that while the city line is likely to be made, that is probably the correct word, public transport will only increase by 1% up to 2034, as explained in an article by a panel of amateur groups, However, the Þórarinn of Hjaltason engineering. On this occasion, I ask the highest. Minister if he can agree with me that there is good reason - 80 billion are very much money, at the top. A minister would not argue about it - to revise the earlier capital contract with a view to taking up a less inexpensive version of the city line and using the savings to set a path of Diving, a natural nationality, on the tip of which everyone knows.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u40	A respectable president. The capital contract is, as may have been the case. A senator, on the one hand, is a ideologies for setting priorities for a period of the covenant's length, and for a major public transportation in the capital area, by going to safety of bicycles and footways, but also for wagons, there could be buses, by which technology is most likely to offer us at the time. I have always felt that our work and the Society, now established in cooperation with the state and rural society in the capital area, are the means that the roads that could be considered should be on the phone. It is very well written in the Treaty that his conduct is, of course, dependent on the fact that there is ongoing support here at the council, for example. ... thewrongofthechart. Now we still have to cancel, for example. The traditional land, which is a large part of the funding of the capital contract. But the differences as well. A senator refers to the whole bus system and the whole capital area, which would mean that much of the day would be left empty. It would be enough to remove special lanes in the narrower areas of the entire area. By keeping the city line carpeted out to the outer edge of the entire capital area, you could save a lot of money. These are things that I think I must have a closer opinion of the Committee, but some have been considered at the earlier stage.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u41	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I don't fully understand what he's referring to when he says it was examined at earlier levels because this suggestion for interest in the group I referred to was relatively new. She's about to have a special lane on the right, where there's a lot of stress. Then I didn't realize it when I was at the top. Minister spoke of one lane to be taken, but based on the information presented, it appears there is a scheme to take two lanes, at least Most of it. But I hope so, first the highest. A minister mentions the land of Köldna, that it will never come to be cast into what this so-called city line is. But because Iceland's Bank was also mentioned in the urban funding line, I'd like to take this opportunity to ask the highest level. First of all, whether he has obtained information about the extent of the maneuvering that the buyers of the low price at the invitation have already cashed this tremendous economy on that occasion. [[The president calls.]] And then, what plans or decisions have been taken into account for the sale value of this item in Iceland Bank that was issued?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u42	A respectable president. You may be able to refer only to the big introductions that took place today. In fact, the second will be held in approximately An hour about the position of the project, as well as other factors. But I think it can be said that in the core it's all about whether or not we're too committed to investing in top priority lanes across the public transport system or whether it's enough to have priority driving or special lanes in narrower areas. With the question of sale of the government property in Iceland, I don't have an overview of this, but it was in itself not forbidden to re-expose the property of the object. It was only those who were set aside in advance at an earlier stage and committed themselves in advance to take certain property items that could not be sold to the surrender. It's only good to remind you that no one knows what the price of this stock will be in six months, twelve months, or two years. [[The president calls.]] Those who have invested profits now - I'm just glad the letters went up at a price. If the letters had been deserved so that they were as expensive or more expensive than what was already written, then the interest would never have been what he was. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u43	Mr. President. There is a demand for financial revolution. Such revolutions might, e.g. It is to transfer some of the bank activity to a community level where banks could also work with green views and climate goals to guide over the striped interest requirements. This is something of the highest magnitude. The prime minister has long spoken for himself. I fear that these days we are losing a chance to make such changes because Iceland's private deposit is being done in the country's dirt. While the State had two banks, it would have been so suggested that it would be used for a better banking system through the State's ownership. V.E.G. Ministers have observed that the decisions for further bank sales await the next government. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister and Chairman of the Left Green Whether to agree in this matter Will you be left green, if they make the next government, expect Iceland to be fully sold? Then let's mention that it is the highest. The secretary of finance and the head of the Independence Party have said that they want to go further and sell a great deal at the Lands Bank during the next term. Once left and left green is back in government with the Independence Party, who can decide? Can voters trust that left green will not stand for a government headed for the private administration of the Lands Bank? Or will it be just like when we trust that VG would not jump in command with the Independence Party for the 2017 elections?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u44	Mr. President. Thank you. A candidate for the inquiry, but now he was at the same national meeting as I was in 2017, who adopted VG's policy, so to speak. A senator knows just as well as I know who the VG policy is in these matters as we have been in this terms. The VG policy is that the State owns the Bank of the Lands. That policy hasn't changed. The decision to have more banks has not been made. Iceland bank came up in the state's arms, like what? A senator also knows very well, in a particular way, about the stability agreements. And VG has never had a policy that the State should own the whole banking system. That knows why. A senator too was as good as me because he was at the same national meeting where the last resolution was agreed, that the State should own the Bank of the Lands. With that course, the VG will stand, as it has been for her in this ideal period. I don't know what it is. A senator gave the last election, but I know what I said as chairman of the movement. It was that the left movement would work with those who would be willing to cooperate with it on matters that would be progressive for an Icelandic community. There we set our priorities for health and climate, and that category has achieved unambiguous success during this terms, so I feel that success is important to politicians, not just talking. So I'm very pleased with the success of VG during this terms, and I will emphasize that the VG is continuing to lead the government and continue to succeed for an Icelandic community. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u45	Mr. President. The direction of the left green may not be to sell the Lands Bank. But we had, like, one. A place of words, me and what. paritaprevir At the end of the spring council, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir insisted that the left green policy be forbidden by oil but could not rely on providing the committee's opinion of the material. So the question remains: Prime Minister, if left green succeeds in the administration after election, resists financial ministers' ideas about privatizing the Lands Bank? In view of the recent surveys, all have shown opposition to the majority of the people at the bank sale, does the minister believe that the nation's opposition is simply because of misinformedness?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u46	Mr. President. I gave this question very clearly the first time, and it is that the left movement has undergone its own policies during this terms of interest, including the year 2000. Therefore, a government treaty was adopted with an overwhelmingly large part of the Party Council of Left Green, though at the back. A senator has not approved it and has found it very difficult to support this government, so he is gone. But we in VG have kept our course and we just keep going. Hv. A senator asks about public opinion. I want to point 'em. A member of the council noted that the sale of this government contract was discussed at the General Assembly. It was requested by the Economic and Business Committee to consider the matter, and its opinion on which views should be guided by the sale. There, special emphasis was placed on the spread of property and transparency and that the journey would be taken. Similarly, there was actually a role in the spread of both property and diversity, and it was also suggested that those who offered lower sums would not be reduced. [[The president calls.]] I want to say, because of what. A senator asks about trust: This sale was carried out in accordance with the will of a greater part of the Council, and it was designed to follow that principle and to ensure widespread possession, transparency, and clear and well - organized practice. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I hope that it will lead to greater trust.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u47	Mr. President. I recommend a proposal for a hearing of approval for the continuation of General Assembly meetings according to Article 1. 23rd par. The constitution. The suggestion is as follows: ▪ The General concludes to agree that meetings will be postponed from July 6, 2021 or later, if necessary. The motion is self-explanatory.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u48	President. I recommend a move to the Prime Minister's proposal for a solemn hearing. I suggest that the proposal will be added: for the assembly will be called together no later than 12 August 2021 for a special hearing on the Constitution. This proposal, in addition to my motive. Senators Guðmundur Andri Thorsson and Inga Sæland. President. Many people have no need to comment on the painful conclusion that came out of work changing the constitution under the highest leadership. Prime Minister in the season. So dwindling were the claims that in the last days, the officials decided to put the matter to rest on a committee. The title given here is not to legalize the whole new constitution that we have, the constitution which is based on the proposals of the administration, unfortunately. And also, it is not about cleaning up the Constitutional bill of the Jakobsdóttir of Katrín and perhaps passing it over the finish line, fortunately. No, it's just one particular and small thing, something that might be described as a puzzle, that the council recommend a new arrangement of the current constitution that would highlight the nation's authority as the Constitution. There is already an adjustment in the motion of that substance. 884 and was submitted by members of the Pirates, the Gangs, and the Conspiracy of 1st. President Katrín's Jakobsdóttir. This proposal makes it possible to change the Constitution without council violation in such a way that once the Council has approved a bill for a change in constitution, it is under a national law for approval or innuendo. V.E.G. The prime minister himself has said that the present arrangement is unfortunate. Mixing up council closures, blood requisitions, and constitutions is a cocktail that doesn't break the nerves of members of Congress. Thus, by giving the people their final words, we will avoid the coming up of Congress and the political future of the individual members of Congress will be influenced by their support or their dramatic opposition to the Constitutional changes that should rightly be in the hands of the real constitutionr, the nation. So I would suggest that the continuation proposal for the Generals meeting this year will be in a way that will restore the council to a special meeting on August 12 and try to make something good out of this hopeless situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u49	President. An autumn election was expected for a senator for a constitution. If a vote indicates that this change of motion will be rejected, then it is very strange to continue this terms. It is simply taking four months of the preparation of the next elected period, the next government, in order to complete the matter laid out for the first session of a new election, budget. They're taking this preparatory period of the next term. If the senators don't agree to have a senator in this election season before election, I suggest that the government stop this and let the next election period come as soon as possible. Whether or not there will be a brief meeting for a change in constitution is the Council's arrangement for these changes. The terms of this matter will tell the history of the government on the Constitution of this terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u50	Mr. President. A representative of the United States Group on the Board of Directors and Control Committee is a representative of this transition. We in the United States support it, and we feel very important that we do not finish this terms without discussing the Constitution, especially the matter of taking sides with a change in the constitution. Therefore, we support this suggestion and encourage other members of the council to do the same.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u51	A respectable president. Now I look at the board and I'm still trying to betray the nation for a new constitution. The election should continue without respecting the decision of the National Order that Iceland should receive a new constitution, a national law that has been ignored for more years. This council, this government cannot even allow so little to change the decision to give the next council the opportunity to implement its national intention as soon as possible. No. The nation is betrayed for a new constitution, and the greater portion buys three and a half months' wages for a vacation and a campaign. But I'd like to keep it in place, Mr President, for the election's success of bringing down this change proposal, as the rest of the part is doing, shows beyond any doubt that they are not and will not be trusted to change the constitution. They just don't have the guts.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u52	A respectable president. I won't vote with this because I can't accept the grounds for this proposal. What matters to me, however, is that at this assembly we complete a discussion of the suggestions we have been discussing among the heads of the administrations and the suggestions offered by the prime minister. I don't think they're finished. I still believe that the council can agree on certain requirements here in the Hall where we have been discussing the entire ideal period. On that basis, I sit by. I can't say that the so - called new constitution should be introduced, that I haven't felt that way, and that I haven't changed my mind. Nevertheless, I believe the council is fully capable and determined to turn the constitution into the source we have been discussing, apart from the resource directive. I would have wanted the political vision and position in this chamber that the government groups have had against our resource or the vision that may include. We've talked about, at the times, the agreements for the resource are to be made and the share of a nation when it comes to the sea resources. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-119.u53	A respectable president. Since the beginning of this election period, the Generals and representatives from here have worked to change the constitution with the highest order. The prime minister suggested at the beginning of the season. At that time, they told Pirata and I, and no doubt more, that we were being dragged on donkey ears. You'd be playing with us by participating in this job. We decided to share faithfully in that work because we believed that all opportunities to succeed in these matters should be taken advantage of. We kept our integrity. When nothing came out of the joint work, it went to the top. Prime Minister ahead of his own bill. We did not stand in the way of that. It went on a committee, and we were among the other people at committees' party to replace it with a committee, but it was not allowed to do so. We wanted to get an autumn council to discuss politics, but it wasn't allowed. And now it is this suggestion, and it shall be let down by reason of the greater part. A respectable president. I propose to the voters that they choose the next category that trusts in the project. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
