ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u1	To answer these questions, Budget and Economic Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Foreign and Development Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, Social Affairs and Children's Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u2	Mr. President. Government officials claim to understand the problems of the people who have lost their job in a professional crisis, but do they? After the 2008 banking crisis, left management increased unemployment rates to 95% of the minimum and increased unemployment period from 36 months to 48 months. In the good news, in 2013,2016, the government allowed the advance and the independent team of unemployment improvements to blow down to 75% of the minimum wage and cut down the unemployment period to 30 months. The current government boasts of raising unemployment to 87% of its minimum and extending the income - related period for some unemployed. Some 10,000 people who lost their jobs in February a year ago or earlier have not enjoyed their traveration to the highest level. Government. Two years ago, the airline WOW, who had been in the tourism service for the fall, fell. People who lost their jobs, they've done their jobs or they're about to complete their unemployment period and to seek out your partner for help and support. These people are in trouble. It's a political decision. Governments to place them with the heavy loads of employment crisis. Civil society and unions have called for a longer period of unemployment. The union has put it in action, and it has just been cut off by the government forces. I ask, "Why do I want the highest?" Social and child-friendly Ministers are not extending the period of unemployment in this situation? Why not?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u3	A respectable president. I want to thank you for this inquiry, and at first I apologize for being a little late in the room. Hv. A senator asks for unemployment. This government, as the senator mentioned, has improved. We have an extended income-related period, we have increased payments for people who are unemployed and who have children. It has increased the pressures on unemployment. The person standing here or the government has never excluded the possibility of extending a new period of improvement. I've said that, and especially in the past few weeks, we've been going over that matter and we've been considering how wise it is to intervene. We've had a good conversation about that with Icelandic society, and we're forming action to cover the 30 months or more unemployed group. This is taken into consideration by two factors: to ensure the advancement of these people, who are extremely important, and to find ways to get them involved in activities, and to get them started, they have also been called by category. A senator and others, and it's a government policy to create jobs. We've been trying to form ways to get these both. I hope we can introduce them soon because I agree with what. A senator said that it is extremely important to control these families, reach these individuals. That's what the government has done, like I traced here, and that's what we're going to do. I hope we can introduce it in the near future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u4	Mr. President. How complicated is this? How much time is needed to identify the situation in people who have lost their job in a professional crisis? This committee has been serving since the beginning of December, at least to the highest degree. December 14, and March, there is no news. What's so complicated? Every day as high as I can. Social and child - care ministers sit by and do not accept the case increase economic and social problems that will bring high costs in the future. If I understand the highest. The minister just follows his suggestions, which may appear over the next few weeks, in view of the fact that the rural communities that have suffered a major loss of income because they have many unemployed communities, are expected to carry the greatest cost in their employment crisis because the government does not want to put money on extending the unemployment period as clearly as possible. As a community, we have certain responsibilities to deal with this crisis.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u5	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before and would like to say that we've had a very good relationship with our communities. We've been in a very good relationship with community society, with the European Union, and we have the past few weeks, not on any committee, but within the Ministry in cooperation with our rural communities, we've been mapling the group that's finishing the period of improvement. How is it made up? How high is this proportion of people who have been receiving financial support? What ratio is there of individuals who have been in the labour market? How high is the percentage of refugees there? We'll take a look at all those factors. At the same time, we've been drawing up the possibility of reaching out financially to this group, to both their positions, to their local positions, and also to get people involved, to create jobs, to create jobs, to create jobs, and to create jobs, as well as to create jobs. A senator has mentioned in his own case many times, and no one wants to be out of work. However, it is also the community that can create jobs to control the problem. The government has certainly taken many measures to intervene in the workforce, and we are preparing for further action in it, and we will continue to do so as the outbreak of crown virus is delayed. [[The president calls.]] It's very wise to do so, to be always on the toes, and that's what the government has done.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u6	A respectable president. V.E.G. Social Affairs is talking about efficacy. I can't figure out why he's asking for more efficiency. There is no lack of seismic activity, there is no lack of soda activity, and especially on Southnes. But there is also the biggest unemployment, the long - term unemployment. Today, some 25,000,300,000 people are out of work. About 1,300 people have died of relief. At the same time, or this time in January, the highest power was given. A social and child - care minister report to him from the National Social Science Institute of Iceland, a striking report that shows that people are trying to reach less than 200,000 bucks. per month. At the same time, it appears that these people, on average, pay 1 60,000 dollars. and up to 200,000. ... rent. As a result, they say that to survive, these people need a minimum of 290,000,350,000. In most cases, though, it is proper to get some 200,000 bucks. paid. I'm asking the highest. Minister of Social Affairs: How in the world are these people supposed to live? How on earth are people to live when they also report to the Department of Social Affairs that benefits amount to 129,120 k. a month before a single parent without housing? Is that person supposed to live on it? How? Why isn't the house inside? Why is scratching in the head over activity? Why are these things not done and things done for these people? It claims to itself that neither us nor these people can live in any way by these stigmas that are today, for they are all with the aid agencies. This is made clear in this report. It's the highest. A minister has read the report, and will he respond?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u7	A respectable president. Hv. A senator had a number of questions. I'm gonna try to stem what this has to do with it. Hv. A senator specifically mentions the consumption criteria of the Department of Social Affairs, published by the Ministry of Social Affairs, which has been calculated on certain grounds. I've already answered this question before. paritaprevir Sæland Gorand asked about this recently. When the consumption criteria were published last year, this same discussion arose. That is why we took the initiative to reevaluate these standards, to consider how they were made up, and to do so requires more members. I agree with what. A senator does not reflect the cost of survival in Icelandic society. That is why we are reevaluating it, reevaluating the basis for its composition. There's more people than the Department of Social Affairs that's involved. Then this is just published and calculated on a regular basis on which the criteria are based. The government has this ideal period, including Today, in the Korean epidemic, large sums of money were given to reach people and vulnerable groups. We've been attacking the tax system changes during the election season. We've undergone changes in the child-replacement system. We've been through a number of ways in which we've been putting our arms around people in response to a question from what I asked them. paritaprevir It's a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter. Can we do more? Yes, we can do more than we have done. Hv. A senator never gets a social minister to tell us that we've done enough. It's not like that. But have we done quite a bit of work? Yes, we already have. We've been holding people. We've also been making systematic adjustments in housing, but the projects are gone and they're moving on.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u8	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Social Ministry for the answers, but they were very cheap. How is it possible that a committee should be put on the case and reviewed? How, then, should we reconsider? Take the report down to the pond and have it reviewed? I don't understand this kind of language. When we're talking about the richest team in the country, a company that pays billions for money, there's no reexamination or appointment. Then things are done one, two and three. If they have to reduce the price of hunting to billions of dollars, because they have to pay 10% or 20% of the billion, then nothing is being revised or put on committees. It's just one, two, three. But when it comes to making sure that people do not have to stand in line after meals, a committee, a review, and a committee has to be scratched in the head over activity. This has nothing to do with it. People don't eat for activity, review or committee. They eat and buy for what they get in their pocket. This is the situation, and it is a large group of 5,500,000 people, entire families, who will survive less than 200,000 bucks.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u9	A respectable president. Hv. A senator mixes the activities and importance of this arrangement, that we have a powerful tool for long - term out workers, and then work that is involved in revising the standards of consumption. It is important to revise your consumption criteria. We've been working on that. And just as with other things we're working on, other indicators, other things we're using, it's the combination of what's causing the confusion of what's going on in the consumers, and that's why we're reevaluating them. I and the senator agree that the consumption criteria do not reflect the real cost of living in Icelandic society. That's why we're reevaluating our criteria. [[Up front.]] And in order to do that, we have other people who appreciate different factors; housing issues, what attracts children and other factors that come into that work so that we can permanently change it. Me and what. A senator agrees. And because of what? I hope we agree that as soon as we secure the progress of people who are unemployed, we come back to the labour market, create jobs, initiate the economy, because work is the foundation of the welfare. It's always been that way, and it's gonna stay that way. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u10	Mr. President. The Budget and Economic Affairs have won an analysis of risk factors for the implementation of budgetary measures in 2021 and have compiled a summary of litigations and budgets needed to monitor, or where additional measures need to be taken to ensure that expenses are within the budgets of the year. This is an interesting memo, and it says that the Ministry counts, following a meeting with all the recruitments at the beginning of the year, that without further action the cost could be 29 billion. higher than the budgets expected. That's a hell of a lot of money. You ask yourself, " What is being done to minimise the fact that such a risk assessment is going to work out? ' Then we have the government, and it's very clear. A minister should take action if it is found that funding is inadequate, some executives have certain responsibilities, etc. The laws are designed so that they close the fact that it is really an open source. There are many lawsuits under these 29 billion, and I mention it here, for example. I mean, unemployment benefits. I certainly understand there's uncertainty around them. They're a big part of this, or over 19 billion. It's like that. an area called foreign languages, 500 million. Now that group of paintings received an extra reserve in the fall of 400 million, there is still uncertainty. You ask yourself, and I ask the highest. Minister: When does the state say stop when sheep are gone? If it comes, e.g. Three thousand applications to the city's trustees make it just a state fund? Is it not some means that we use the instruments we have in the law? How do you use these controls?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u11	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for taking up this case and would like to add that the paper in my Ministry has been submitted to the government and introduced to a financial committee. It is very important that you do so. A senator suggested that most of the uncertainty has to do with unemployment during the year. There has been a discussion in this interviewing period, where from the one of the advocates in that inquiry, there was an idea that the large extra rights would still increase the risk in that category. But my answer to when it is said enough is, in part, that the budget is part of the budget for the coming year, taking into account various factors, demographic development, and other aspects of which there are some specific rights for people to be supported. In that sense, the budget and unemployment may be excellent examples. Other than that, I think, and I'm not saying this for the first time here at the council, that oversight of the budget could be much better. There are very clear laws on public finances on the duty of a professional minister in order to get into the framework set by the Council for the case parties, and just when we are discussing this part of the first part of the year, it is a good time to respond. That can be tricky. This can be political problems. Stepping in there can be very sensitive. [[The president calls.]] But the law is very clear on this and what I would have wanted to see is a much more dense and powerful hold on this aspect of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u12	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers and agrees that there needs to be a lot more intensive surveillance. All I've done is find out that when you ask about some people who have gone ahead and are asked for extra funds, the majority of the committees seem very interested in discussing it and asking the criticism questions. I've certainly done this for the Committee's work, and I'm sorry. It's just that if you don't respect this system, the laws we have set, the government laws on government finance, and if you don't respect the rules, you can't control it. It's just that way. That's when money flows from the state fund forever. It is the natural responsibility of a minister to promote the implementation of the law, the law on public finances. In fact, these laws assume that there should be no more treasures. Granted, we know that there was a virus epidemic and that was accompanied by an extra budget. However, it seems that it is a tendency for institutions to go to ministers and then to say that all they need is an extra treasure. [[The president calls.]] The responsibility of these parties is great. It's well implemented in the law, but it's as if it's not being carried out as it should. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u13	A respectable president. Of course, holding back from the Ministry of finance is shown by our informing the Senate of the situation and setting things up on the subject of the government. Then the law is somewhat clear on which cases can meet the requirements of entering the budgets at the end of the year or after incidents of receiving a contribution from a general reserve. By keeping to the material, it is being proclaimed that such donations are not being made. I also need to use this opportunity to draw attention to the fact that here we are just talking about that when people pass out. Imagine what a project it would be for us if we were to keep a proper eye on the overall budget, whether the overall budget is in any way consistent with the need, whether we could do better with the entire budget. Of course, that is what we need to be much better in, and we do not have an established system, even if we have parties like a government accountant, to do it properly.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u14	President. During this terms, there was to be a global change in social security that was supposed to ensure an increase in biofuel emissions by 4 billion a year. Something's been very difficult to complete, and it's unclear about 1.1 billion dollars. ... ofthesystemchange. But it is obvious that the pensions of social security have not been kept in the process of pay development and any suggestions made by the Parliament need to have special terms on inadequacy. Otherwise, the dresser improvement in the social security cycle will disappear into some black hole that we do and no one seems to fully understand how it works and what the benefits will be when they go through the whole system. It seems that it is not possible for a sane man to recognize all the poverty traps and the misinformation in this system. It seems impossible to obtain a clear, predictable right. The parents of long - suffering children have, for example. received different results of their requests without knowing why, perhaps that they spoke to another employee the day before they spoke to today. My question is, in the end, is it not time to burn down this social security and insurance system and start over? It is repeated in the software sector when the program is so swollen and complicated that it does not respond to the costs of maintaining it. This begins again with the knowledge we have, and it always leads to better results.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u15	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. First, the 4 billion intended for global change during this terms have been set aside for this population by action, both at significant steps in reducing the rate of impairment, in return to a centennial decrease, and since when actions were adopted here prior to Christmas, which were specifically directed to the lowest income or need - most necessary. So the 4 billion have been taken care of by the legislatures approved here at the council. The changes made were rhymed with the proposed system changes. On the other hand, it is quite clear, as the matter shows. A senator, that the system change we were going to undertake during this terms, and that aims to reassign the cards completely into the social security system, both to the reformal categories, but also to the factors involved in achieving functionality, maintaining functionality, and helping them get back into the labour market, has not finished. We've taken a certain step in that, rehabilitation notes have been increased, but it's quite clear, so I'm completely honest about it, that this has not been achieved with the strength we intended. There was a greater opposition to these structural changes than expected, not just from micro-energy donor stakeholders, but from work markets. However, I have recently found that the opposition is reducing, and I think it is extremely important to attack the system and simplify the system as planned during the season, and we have taken certain steps in that direction. But I share my mind. The senator's importance is to simplify the system and also to review its goals. [[The president calls.]] The goal is to help people stay at work, continue in the job market, and work in that way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u16	A respectable president. That is exactly what we receive in the budget of this 1,1 billion that went to one of the lawsuits, which may have been a false case, and now it has to be replaced by a different group, not 1.1 billion, but 1.5 to 2 billion. You just stand there and ask yourself, " What's going on? When you read the law, you see in the first place how complex it is, and secondly, it makes a clear message in the 69th C.E. that benefits should be provided for pay development or inflation. However, when the system accepts it and interprets the law, the result is actually lower in terms of compensation than that of remuneration. You can only see very clearly and clearly from the data. In fact, when we try to be clear here, the system somehow interprets it in a worse way for our clients, for the people out here, for the people who trust in this pension. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It interprets the results, what we want them to do, in a much worse way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u17	President. The number of 4 billion in this terms has certainly been set aside by legal adjustments here at the council. On two occasions, we have agreed to a legal adjustment to this group, since this budget was available to the action they expected to make. I share my mind. The senator's importance in making the system change, simplifying the system, but at the same time he reviews the objectives, the purpose; getting people involved, keeping people active, achieving social change at the same time. Therefore, I was disappointed that we did not achieve a solidarity over what I expected because we had reached very far to the Microcollar Community and to the views it had established in that work. But it's important to keep doing this, and I think we should attack the system. It will improve the benefit of these people. This will improve the benefit of this group and will also reduce the incidence. We want to change our system so that we help people to be functional, work, move forward, and participate in society.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u18	Mr. President. It will hardly be said that despite declarations, the government has gone to great lengths in public investments. According to new data, public investments have been drawn by 9.3% in 2020, and by 2019 it was combined by 10.8%, with the need for intervention on the part of the public at the time of the screaming, as the evidence of a recession in the economy was obvious and clear. The number of promises is not a measure of the success of the government but of their wealth and success. As far as I can remember, the claims of the government parties, of the investigated investments in connection with the elections in 2017, were extensive. One of them promised 100 billion promises, so it would appear that he was ready for a plan. Notably, then, it is especially surprising to see the ill - equipped equipment for setting up key projects and investments at a time when it would have been necessary to use them for economic purposes. V.E.G. There will be talk of the state's strong position and how well that situation proves to be a crisis. How does such a situation work out, in investments, in line with the problem? Mr. President. The government promised increased expenditures and, in particular, investments. That's what she did with the law and the budget. The data show black on white that the investment has not paid off. The promise has not been fulfilled. I'm asking the highest. Secretary of finance: How does he explain this massive recession in public investments? Is this, in his opinion, a Witness of good economic management for the deepest crisis of later years?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u19	A respectable president. What we now see trying to evaluate in 2020 is that the government's actions seem to have been extremely effective. That even appeared to us. in that we no longer stand for the deepest crisis for 100 years. Rather, our contractions in 2020 are considerably less than previously predicted. It presents a wide range of factors that support this conclusion, but private consumption is one of them, and economic investments seem to be greater in recent years than previously planned. Regarding the public investment, there is one thing that stands out. It is that rural society has totally held hands. As we examine the official investment between state and rural society, we will see very clearly that we have lived up to what was promised, adding to the investment of the State, and more importantly, we have financed things that are yet to be accomplished. So I have hopes that we'll have a bit of a strong wave with us into the year 2021. We can see this, for example. we have not fully made use of all the financial resources of 2020 and take some of them with us to this year, but, nevertheless, the government's investment was growing, not to be spoken of if we were to take a treat force that wasn't likely to increase much within the country, such as the Buy of thelf, if we took it away. Then, in 2020, we would see further growth in the investment of the State compared with 2019. I am prepared to take a deeper discussion of this and is of great importance because we always thought that it was an economic procedure, that would be an operation in which we tried to reach out to the issues where we felt great national benefits, human resources, and we were giving counters to the contractions that were forming.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u20	Mr. President. That's exactly the point, when these things happen, of course, that's all that matters. It is now crystal clear that all these projects and investments have been drawn. It looks like they're not getting started properly until the latter part of this year and that they're going to extend to the future, just when we all hope that commercial employment and commercial investors will be involved. This will put the total investments of the state at hand, causing unnecessary tensions, unnecessary expansion with its consequences. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he is concerned with me that this situation will arise and what can be done to prevent this from happening.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u21	A respectable president. I think we need to analyze this picture a little bit better. We need to understand why the investments of rural society took up this much together, that, according to Habitat assessment, the public's overall investment has been summed up. We must also examine the measurements. I'd like to point out some of the things we here in the Senate have spoken about as an investment, perhaps more an investment in the future rather than basically an investment under the most extreme definitions of economics, and how much we have accomplished in these areas. I'm here talking about research and evolution. I'm talking about the contributions to the competitive fund, into basic research, into the Technical Development Fund. I'm talking about funding a number of future opportunities that will create jobs. Other than that, I repeat: The state increased its investment levels last year. It's the countryside that's left by boat. Some have been delayed by changing circumstances. [[The president calls.]] The hospital assignment is, for example, one. It's not exactly the same as we planned. This year's financial resources will be useful, and we need to be careful that the economy has taken over the balance of our activities. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u22	A respectable president. The silent epidemic. There are consequences of subsequent brain injury. Some 2,000 people have brain injuries every year in this country. Of these, 200 sheep cope with long - term sequelae and disability. Brain injury can have widespread and confounding effects, e.g. concentration, memory, speech, personality, feelings, conduct, ability to communicate, intuition, initiative, and mental well - being. Other potential symptoms secondary to brain injury may include seizures, decreased function of hormones, headache, dizziness, loss of movement and coordination of muscles. The related brain damage and its consequences have not been given much space in our discussion in this country. This apathy has led to a lack of understanding of its consequences, both within the welfare system, the educational system, and the workforce. In recent years, there has been a call for brain damage and experts in the field to improve the diagnosis and registration of brain injuries and to promote specific intervention, treatment and support for those who have been affected by brain trauma. Each year about ten individuals suffer from severe behavioral problems after brain injury. In particular, in this country, there is a need for a comprehensive treatment and rehabilitation strategy for individuals with a prior history of brain injury. It is also a large group with long - term consequences, since those close to a person with brain damage, family, and friends are stuck with the problem and have a closed door in the community. Brain injury can be accompanied by mental problems, many health problems, and social isolation. These individuals are isolated when they do not receive treatment or rehabilitation. I'd like to ask the highest. Health Minister: What is the government's plan to increase education, research, and awareness in the public and within the health sector for the consequences of primary brain damage? And second over this round: The case of individuals with known brain damage is known to be under the Department of Social Affairs, Health Ministry and Education and Culture Ministry. How is a multidisciplinary rehabilitation work with people with brain damage and behavioral problems guided by counseling, and what has it done?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u23	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir here brings up a very important aspect of health care that has not been high but is certainly of great importance. The Senator directs me a few questions, and the first point is to the government's plans for increased education, research, and awareness in the public and within the health sector on the consequences of future brain damage. As a result of a meeting I had with Hugarfar about early in 2018, I appointed a team of workmen in June 2018 to care for the development of brain damage. His role was to identify the status of services to those with a condition of brain damage and to offer suggestions for reform if needed. The staff returned a report to me by the end of June 2019, which included the group. Allegors from the National Renewable Fund, the Union of Iceland's Guild and the Management Board on Brain Damage. The action of the command was a suggestion that I had previously received to improve the diagnosis and registration of these injuries and to promote special intervention, treatment and support for this group. The work force is assessed to be of a lack of ability to better identify and register, as well as to be more careful that the treatment and support of people with known brain damage and that this service is adequate at all levels of service. Following the report from the staff, I gave 20 million. K. to smoke groves to promote group treatments there for people with known brain damage. Today, a publication recently published by the Ministry of Smoking notes that individuals with this type of brain damage, which receive cross-cutting assessments and rehabilitation in the Agency's neurological field, have increased from 12◯15 individuals annually to 25 individuals. It is often very long rehabilitation, from two months up to ten months. Changes were made in shape so that all who wait for a ministry in a smoking field because of brain damage can gain a preview, either in a walking ward or in a time department. With a preview you can meet individuals earlier in the process, analyze the nature of the problem better and direct them to an appropriate service. At that time, there was an increasing follow - up. Each person is expected to attend ten interviews per year in a walking department. The duration of such follow-up is one to two years. The Ministry is now working on a special strategy for service to this group, which I hope will give more general knowledge about the individual needs of the service and a better organization for the ministry. Second, the senator asks how a multidisciplinary rehabilitation team for those with brain damage and behavioral problems is controlled between counsel and what it has done. Thus, when it comes to the ministry for individuals with brain damage and behavioral problems, the responsibility is different. This depends on whether the cause of the injury is caused by an illness or by an accident, but it should not matter to those in need of service. The matter is being discussed, especially in a gray-book committee that deals with clear work and responsibilities between the state and the community. I have high hopes that this discussion will lead to a conclusion and will offer suggestions on cooperating with individuals and their families in order to determine whether there is a cause of illness such as stroke or post-traumatic trauma. The senator also asks whether there are plans to offer behavioural neurosponsification in this country, but individuals who have suffered brain damage often have a number of problems requiring a highly specialized rehabilitation approach. Resuscitation after brain injury is individual and may take a long time because of the nature of the problem that a person has that may be cognitively impaired, behavioural and personality changes. Research shows that these individuals need long-term follow-up to make the most of their recovery. A discussion of behavioural neurosensitization is new from the local needle, but there are reports of the success of such treatments from abroad, both following previous head trauma and stroke brain injury. Recently, a meeting at the Department of Health with representatives of Brain Crimes has been made available for a new program of rehabilitation for people with behavioral problems after brain injury. The rehabilitation and treatment of brain fractures are based on a behavioural analysis and aims to train individuals in social appropriate behavior. As I mentioned earlier, there is a plan of action in the service of people with known brain damage at the Ministry. I hope that this work will bring us a general knowledge of the service needs of these individuals and a better organization for the ministry. There are all established treatments for discussion, including the one discussed here, but we have already taken steps in behalf of this group, and there will be more.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u24	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to thank the advisor for the discussion, as well as the highest. Minister. When I was preparing for the discussion, I noticed the report at the highest level. A minister spoke about earlier, written by the Ministry's staff. There is an excellent suggestion. It is true that the cases of individuals with known brain damage depend on many departments. That is why the question of a advocate is, How would you describe the multicenter rehabilitation work, very good? As with so many other traumas, recovery is quite good, but it seems that follow-up actually works. It's hard to put rehabilitation in a timeline because it takes a whole range of hours depending on the individual. I like the proposals of the staff, and it would be very good if they could continue working, increasing follow-up, promoting group therapy, promoting prevention and education. These are all important suggestions. However, I would like to point out the one thing I felt was lacking in this report. It made me feel like there was a lack of national friendship. It's about Smokeyund, and it's about Land Hospitals, but we need to think a little more than that. So I want to direct that question to the highest level. Minister to how she intends to meet it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u25	A respectable president. I would like to thank you for starting this need and good discussion of hidden ills that are going around the community, the development of brain damage, where we refer to the injury or damage to the brain after an accident or illness, and will be here sometime after birth. The World Health Organization estimates that the rate of brain injury, including a concussion, is about 600 per 100,000 inhabitants, so in Iceland some 2,000 cases are expected to occur each year, in most cases mild to up to 103/415%, have consequences of brain injury and even develop permanent symptoms, often with tragic consequences for the individual and their families. It should be noted that the above frequencies do not include those experiencing annual brain injury caused by others such as if you are suffering from a stroke, brain tumour, hypoxia, or other illnesses, or events that can cause brain damage. A lot of people are always well-pleasing, e.g. for older people who have a stroke. And when we're talking about brain trauma, there are also groups of patients like alzheimer patients. Many groups are always well cared for, e.g. for older people who have a stroke. The fact is that the number of head injuries requires progressive and individualised rehabilitation following emergency treatment. That process with follow-up may take months and even years. In Iceland, for example, a major brain injury is not diagnosed as any other. Since 1985, the nations around us have successfully dealt with this problem by well - thought - out cross - color rehabilitation as a guide. Efforts have been made in this direction. Some years ago, an experiment was started on a Smokey farm that made good promises, but because of a lack of money, it became a source of support. The thread has partially been reactivated, but it can be better if sufficient. There have been mainly two organizations, smoke groves, and Grensás, who have been on the road. Their positions, assignments, and cooperation need to be strengthened, as well as the whole around the large population that has brain damage.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u26	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir To take the initiative in this fine discussion, give a signet Kristjánsdóttir of Signý. I know a person who suffered brain damage as a child and knows only his position and his family, and here's a short story of it. Looking back on the lives of this individual, the opportunities and possibilities of education and the general labour market are remarkable. There they play a large part of the school system and South American careers, how they did their duty to these individuals. In general, though, the basic school is a box layer when it comes to the trouble of boys in study and in new ways to meet their wishes, as we know. However, Southnesia's high school welcomes individuals with brain damage, where there is a truly good rehabilitation and opportunity for study. Schools for study and opportunity for study are a fine example of a school that gives such individuals new opportunities and quality of life that are important in youth for the future. Then the University of Iceland waits for two years of diplomats, where a person with brain damage can graduate in a high school or sports track with public students. Grouping and the opportunities for such studies are an excellent opportunity for these individuals to work along with students on an equal basis. There the possibility of university education ends, but it is likely that further opportunities will open up for these individuals for further study. A respectable president. A Southnes labor market also welcomes individuals with brain damage. The person I mentioned is an acting school worker who gets paid according to the bus's pay table of Smokeyastown. Children with diagnostics are drawn to this person and found shelter in him. He's a special employee. In the summer, my husband is a golfer, and he works on the golf course on fresh winds and bars. A respectable president. There are also beautiful stories from society that support people with different abilities.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u27	A respectable president. Thank you for this important discussion on this subject, which may even be available. Not enough coverage. Similarly, I am delighted and obliged to bring my sensibilities into this discussion of rehabilitation following the acquired brain damage. Every year, a number of people in this region suffer brain damage, either by accident or by illness. The related brain injury refers to brain tissue damage following an accident or disease, e.g. bleeding or blood clots. As a result, many live with significant cognitive impairment. The common long - term problems of those with acquired brain damage are increasing mental disorders and often play a significant role in bringing people back to full - time employment. This is especially true for those with double diagnosis; brain injury, as well as addiction. Dr. Kort Kristófersson has been preoccupied with a new rehabilitation procedure, a sense of intervention in rehabilitation for the acquired brain damage. Dr. Gísli's work was about consciousness as a rehabilitation strategy for individuals with alcohol and drug problems and brain damage and is the source of this approach. In recent years, there have been significant improvements in neuroscients, which have led to increased understanding of brain structure and function. Radiometric studies are increasingly directed to neurobiological studies of consciousness. Investigators have endeavored to reveal the underlying neurophysiology processes behind the practice of present consciousness and whether present awareness affects brain flexibility. These studies have shown that the neurophysiology effects of present consciousness on morphology and the activity of the brain are authentic. Studies with these imaging studies show that the effects of present - day cognitive training on neurological function and brain structure are considerable. [[The president calls.]] So modern mental therapy has a direct effect on the brain. My second talk will help me to understand how that will happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u28	Mr. President. Halla Kristjánsdóttir for taking the initiative. This is an important discussion. According to a Health Ministry report on the development of brain damage since 2018, it is estimated that about 2,000 people a year suffer brain damage and that 200 to 300 people suffer permanent disability from such brain damage and, as a result, require long - term rehabilitation. It is not brain damage due to conditions such as stroke, but only to previous brain injury. The majority of those who suffer such damage to the brain suffer from memory problems, poor judgment, and behavioral problems, not necessarily physical disability. That may be where the dog lies because we are a bit accustomed to dealing primarily with such problems in our system. But even if this disability is not visible on the outside, it is much less serious. It makes people unable to win, unable to study. It is socially isolated because friends and family ties are broken. Then we also know, numbers outside have shown that half of the prisoners have brain damage and about 70% of these have been damaged before they break down for the first time. National research also shows that about half of the homeless have brain damage, and there is no reason to believe that the proportions are quite different in this country because we have not developed long - term specialized rehabilitation for these people. To date, few seem aware of the success that can be achieved by brain injury by correct rehabilitation. I'm here to refer to an answer from the Department of Social Affairs to my inquiry earlier this winter, by permission of a president: ▪ In order to improve the effectiveness of people with postcerebral behavioral problems, it is clear that a thorough review of their status and structure of further knowledge and experience within the social services in cooperation with other services is needed. This is important, and that is why this discussion is very important, and hopefully it will bring about a better outcome soon. [[The president calls.]] I'm going to get a better grip on whatever options are available, hopefully on the next talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u29	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir To this discussion and minister for participating in Signý's Kristjánsdóttir, give him the crown of Christ's daughter. Brain injury, e.g. by accidents - I've only been to that in the past. On one occasion, I was helping a person to get a disability assessment at the State Insurance Institute. The subject had post-traumatic brain damage. The strangest and most shocking thing that hit me was when a man read the report that he was denied disability, that the person was asked by a doctor if he had a mental disorder, whether he was depressed or something. The person said: "No! He didn't understand the question. But only that answer was enough to be charged with the decision to the Social Security Committee. It shows black on white what to do with things like this. Another factor we have to take into account is that we are now pressing on to speech pathologists. They come in very strong because speech pathologists deal with the very problems of those who suffer from harm and lose a language, trying to help them recover. There's a situation in today's speech pathologists. There we need to expand our ministry, and communication is a must. We're giving them too little money and, overall, they're going to get less in a year than we're going to. ... 500millionthere. In this example, we are expected to contribute greatly to the assistance of speech pathologists, physical therapists, and others who care for these people. That's where we need to make things right.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u30	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir That's the Lord's Halla, Signor Signý's Kristjánsdóttir and the highest. Minister for her introduction to this need and important discussion. In this discussion, I feel that there is a lack of general knowledge. Of course, we have experts who know this job and this injury. Of course, we need to treat these terms well, but that is the basis for increasing understanding. Then we come to information and instruction. I appreciate that the discussion today is part of strengthening the awareness that has taken place. It has been observed in many cases that this is an injury and a variety of circumstances or events that can cause severe trauma and brain damage. This will lead to the alarm and we will identify the circumstances in each area. I'm gonna pull out the sports. It has not been observed here in the discussion, but there are circumstances that are known to cause concussions. In fact, I feel the response of the sports movement and the discussion that has taken place there - just balding the ball or hitting the floor with a heavy head wound, not long ago, the law was usually to scourging off. But the sport movement has recently gone into a campaign where the slogan is right: Don't be tough. See specialists, for the results often come later. That's why I just want to say here, because my time has gone from me, a respectable president, that I'm celebrating this discussion. It's part of improving my awareness, and I like the suggestions presented in a report at the highest level. Minister of this, as the inscription is called a silent epidemic.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u31	Madam President. I thank you for this discussion of important matters, and perhaps not least the raising of rehabilitation as important health care. That is true of this class of diseases, such as others. Happily, there has been a movement on legalization in the country over the past few years, especially with increased cooperation between Smokey Claus and the Grensás Department. Of course, rehabilitation is also performed in many other places, and especially in clinics such as Kristines and in medical institutions throughout the country. However, such specialized tasks are primarily carried out in these relatively few places and perhaps in other places may be extended. Now it's up to you to see if you can plan a special program for rehabilitation in Iceland. This is of great importance, especially in view of the fact that the work being carried out there requires fresh and new knowledge to be made here in the country. We are in the best position to know what privileges are for our community and how to use them. That's why it's very important. Smokeloin's special project, which began last year, is another key growth factor in this, i.e. a task for special services for people with known brain damage, particularly the part of walking and day - to - day service. The fact is that many years of long - term service and support are very often involved, and they are precious to the fact that this commission has begun. But it is also important for such projects as this, about innovation, to continue, and it is important that governments make sure that they continue to receive support and support to grow.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u32	V.E.G. President. I want to take this opportunity to thank you again for your fine discussion today. There are various manifestations of the brain that are involved in the process of brain injury. There may be changes in behavior, lack of initiative, and even the bad things that talk about, but they are violent. On the page of brain fractures, we read that there is no specific treatment available for people in this country. At least that's what I'm saying. I may well feel that way because it's not visible. Today's discussion has shown that much is available in many areas, but it may be necessary to relate more clearly so that we increase instruction at the same time, even eliminate certain prejudices that exist so that everyone can row in the same direction. It is true that there is a need for action, and this discussion here is in my mind a fine start. There is an opportunity for them to cope or to save that we already have. You just have to put your hands together and guide it in a progressive direction. I thought it would be nice to hear that the sports movement has some programs for prevention. You might even talk about it in a larger context. I remember seeing that there are now fewer who use seat belts, for example. It could be something classified as a preventive, so people don't get kicked out of cars and land with their heads on the ground. What I'm saying is there's a lot of things to think about, and here's a good discussion going on.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u33	Madam President. There are very different ways in which the health system functions to be performed in individuals who develop a coming and/or an injury related to the brain. Experience shows that it is often random and limited. In this country, the diagnosis and rehabilitation of people with brain damage are mainly carried out at the Grensás and Smokelound, as I mentioned in my first series. The total number of these two institutions, with a total of some 40 to 1,550 new cases each year, reaches only about half of those in desperate need of service. In fact, children may experience severe brain trauma just as older ones do. Over 500 children and adolescents under 18 years of age are diagnosed each year with brain trauma in Iceland, including some 200 children under the age of four. Of the overall population, about 20 paediatric patients with moderate to severe brain injury are diagnosed. The consequences of childhood brain injury have been shown not to fully appear until adulthood. This, of course, indicates that specific measures are not available in this country for children and adolescents who are dealing with the consequences of brain damage. This calls for improvement. Of course, it is a joy to see that the sports movement has come to know this problem and that the games are often followed by puffs and skulls. What a fine example! The Norwegian cost-and-efficiency analysis of brain damage rehabilitation suggests that there is an adequate and continuous intervention and long-term support, but I don't know that such a assessment has been made in Iceland. Madam President. Where's the problem? People agree that there is a problem all over the system, including the U.S. that knowledge lacks the symptoms of brain damage and its consequences. There is a need to define and add services to individuals with brain damage at all levels, ranging from an emergency to rehabilitation and building up so that these individuals can lead a meaningful and successful life in the community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u34	A respectable president. Here we discuss a very important subject for finding practical solutions, how to service and help people with brain damage, mental dysfunction, and so forth. I'd like to talk to you in general about this. This is an example of a health - care challenge to be considered. There is a wide variety of options in this series of subjects, and clearly not all of them are available today. There are many solutions today, and many are doing good work, but there are surely more options and better things to do. Thus, our organization needs to be set up, that people are always looking for the best resources, since the user is engaged in the best service and in the most practical way and they need to be a good access for people to these provisions. This will be achieved by taking the initiative of our good health care professionals and scientists and offering them the hope that if they make a suitable tool for many challenges, we will be able to accomplish it. If so, we need to determine not only what it costs but also what it returns and knows. It's about how to cope with such challenges, we need a system that encourages the formation of the resources and access to the deliberation if they are to be invented. This is extremely important. Here we are talking about some of the resources that we have. But they may need more access or support for those who provide the resources in order to provide access.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u35	Madam President. As noted in my case earlier, scientific research clearly shows that present conscious training directly affects the structure and function of the brain. A number of studies have shown that present awareness affects activity in almonds, anterior and posterior cyborgs, islets and various forward brain, parietal, and sensory regions of the brain. When the word rehabilitation is said, no doubt it comes to many ideas of muscular rehabilitation. Yet, while the brain is not a muscle, it can be trained as if it were muscles, strengthened as a muscle, and adjusted in a similar way. Studies show that the brain can be trained effectively through brain damage. A modern sense is based on a 2,500 - year - old story, although it might be said that only recently the ideologies are being taken seriously within the medical and the nurse. A key element of consciousness is that people focus on the moment and do not judge what they are experiencing. Today's sense of urgency teaches us to face adversity with clarity, stability, insight, and inadequacy and to promote conscious attention in our time. Modern awareness seeks to disrupt the cycle of harassment and unwanted reactions. Current awareness is not only of benefit in rehabilitation patients but also of the self-administration patients. Medical candidates who adopt today's consciousness have been shown to be more sensitive, patient, and understanding. They have a stronger presence, a better bond, and an increased insight. A respectable president. Modern awareness is, in fact, a general condition of the mind. Today's conscious exercises lead to those who -- no, I have to finish my case. [[The president calls.]] We're out of time. But now a sense of rehabilitation is an inexpensive and reliable method that seems to fit in with the needs of most people and at home in what we are discussing today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u36	Madam President. In the acute phase following the development of brain injury, the rehabilitation will occur in hospitals, but after the blast crisis, there will be a variety of treatment options for the rehabilitation process. For individuals who are suffering from behavioural problems after such a possible brain injury, it is somewhat equal to whether individuals are in need of resources for the sake of the social system or the Ministry of Social Affairs or the Ministry of Health. Perhaps it is part of the misunderstanding that this group seems to have attached to. In contrast countries of Iceland, behavioural and neurological recovery has been provided for those with post-cerebral brain injury and behavioural disorders for several decades, and the results of studies of the benefits of such rehabilitation indicate that behavioural nerve repetitives are effective and beneficial treatments for behavioral disorders after brain injury. We have not yet offered such rehabilitation in this country. However, a team of professionals has established a rehabilitation facility that specializes in this service, including our main experts in the country in rehabilitation after brain damage. The main reason for my next impression that this service has not been possible is that countries and rural communities are deciding how to divide costs. It is not unusual to have a new and expensive ministry, but it is important that this knot be cut off first. Important inputs into this work could be a detailed cost- and-appoint analysis in which more factors are considered than just the amount of cost available to this service. We talk about these things very often. However, I am confident that more and more people in the community are finding more clear examples of the economic benefits that come from interrupting right away when people are affected by such things and the benefits that contribute to the well - being and quality of the people who have suffered such damage and their caregivers. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u37	A respectable president. After this discussion of related brain damage, whether it is children, adolescents, or adults with brain damage, I think that the conclusion is that there are some problems. I don't think it's been documented how these people serve, how fast and how well they're given the service, and whether they're waiting. We know there's a hell of a waiting list for speech pathologists, and we know there's a waiting list in the system. There is, of course, one thing that may be a noisy field in this context, and there are those in this situation. What is their help? Controls the current situation, e.g. with the families of those in such a situation? I don't think it was done, but people might need much help. It was found in the discussion that drugs could cause brain damage, and we know, for example, that it can. that for children growing up with people who are on drugs and drinking alcohol, and who even live under violence, there are few resources available. There is one status value in the U.S.A. to help children in this situation, which is far too small. This is the forgotten group that often lands between ships and docks because we are not mapling things. We're not putting any money into this, and we're not dealing with this so that this group get service right away, but they don't land anywhere in between. As a result, the damage will become greater.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u38	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Health Minister for participating in the discussion and other matters. Senators for participating in the conversation. I missed only those suggestions made by a group of people whose report is that behavioural recovery was not discussed. But the highest. A health minister came in and I can see and hear, and he knows that a lot has happened. This is a great deal of interaction that needs to be done because many systems have to put their arms around these individuals, as I did in my first speech. As a result of a well - received neurosurgeon in a foreign land, Canada is designed to re-create skills and self - control with the goal of improving independence and quality of life. They are individuals who have suffered brain damage and who have behavioral problems from him. The treatment is to train these individuals in social appropriate behavior by means of behavioral analyses so that they can live in peace and harmony with others in the community. In this country, the rehabilitation site has been prepared to offer such treatment and has been trying to reach the authorities' ears with it. I also rejoice as a boy. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson said that special training is under way. It is of utmost importance that this knowledge builds up in the country because it is a large group. People who go to doctors and to various caregivers, although they do not have behavioural problems, these may be unexplained physical pain that people have for decades, unable to define, and unable to receive any treatment. [[The president calls.]] But thank you so much for the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u39	A respectable president. I want to thank you for the discussion. Just a few points here in the end: First, we can assume, according to the World Health Organization guidelines, that there are about 2,000 people a year in Iceland who suffer some sort of trauma of this kind and 15% of them, i.e. 300 people, have any symptoms or problems that take longer than a month. There's the big numbers in this. I agree with all the tips here. I think the discussion has been very good and expressed a keen interest and a willingness to take these matters seriously. I take to heart all the emphasis here on education and prevention, and I especially want to direct my words to the sports movement that has been very effective in setting this discussion in focus. I would like to mention a nervous team of the Ring's Children's Hospital, who treats children and adolescents as a result of less brain trauma, including Because of sports injury, it is being maintained because it has not been mentioned here. I'd also like to mention the available rehabilitation policy, and, of course, the big film, and a rehabilitation team that's being set up on the basis of a rehabilitation policy in all medical districts. Of course, it is very important, as we have noted, that this is not confined to the capital area. The first rehabilitation team has started with the Eastern Institute of Health and Honor and Good People. Then, finally, I want to say that the plan of action on the basis of this report, which has been discussed here, is being born in the Ministry. Then we can put these measures into others on the basis of health policy and make sure that these measures are carried out and financed because this class, many of whom have been invisible, deserves it. - Thank you, Mr President, for a good discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u40	Madam President. As soon as I'm celebrating this bill and agree with it, I'd like to express some comments brought by young environmentalists, by the permission of a president: ▪ Environmentalists are pleased to be adaptable to Iceland's legislation at the expense of pumping carbon dioxide into Iceland's natural habitats. Yet, young environmentalists insist that carbon balance should be an emergency, not a priority for government climate policy, as required by No. 5.1, as 350 young people from 150 countries agreed on to the Lock COP26. Young environmentalists also believe that the scientific and chemical experts should have more counselling authority than the legislation decides.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u41	V.E.G. President. I present a committee opinion on behalf of more of the General and Education Committee on bill to correct the conversion of authors law, No. 73/1972, with subsequent changes. It reverses the limitations of authors' private rights to benefit individuals with visual or reading impairment. At the outset of the committee's opinion, the visitors are reviewed. Many comments were also received. The bill is suggested in regulations of Article 19. God's Word, No. 73/1972 on the limitations of authors' exclusive rights for those unable to use plain printed material for reading will be modified in accordance with the Maress Convention's requirement to facilitate the bioavailability of blind, visually impaired, or to deal with other printing mechanisms. This includes implementation of Directive (EU) 2017/1564 from 13 September 2017 on the same topic. A-team 2. the bill contains the meaning of terms, such as being considered to be a person with visual or reading impairment, regardless of other disability that cannot otherwise be managed by physical disability, by means of a book or treated or by visual acuity, or by moving his eyes to a level of adequate reading. In the treatment of the case, there was a view that the limitations of authors' private rights should also include students with non - English languages and temporary illnesses, i.e. for subjects weak due to treatment or rehabilitation. commitments under international agreements and the EEA contract set a framework for the extent to which authors can limit their exclusive rights. Authority to restrict authors' rights due to non relevant languages does not exist within the framework allowing restrictions on authors' exclusive rights. The majority of the committee feel that there are other ways to meet the needs of these groups that need to be based on treaties with the rights. This includes, not temporary illness, but only disability. If such a condition can be interpreted as temporary disability, it may fall under the terms of d-joint 19 gr. a. However, access to such temporary disability must be ensured as well. According to this, the greater part does not constitute a basis for making changes, according to the above. P-E-T-T. The bill provides the duties and safety elements that approved units must meet and take care of the preparation and use of available copies on the basis of the source proposed by c-joint 1 mgr. Ex-huts 2. The bill. These measures should include the appropriate actions to help prevent the prohibited copy from being available or distributed to the public or to the public as specified in the same paragraphs. The committee held the view that elderly, visually impaired, and blind people may have difficulty with technological changes and changes in the Sound Library. Thus, further safety measures would likely result in increased costs for the museum. In view of this, it should be noted that safety measures should not inhibit the bioavailability of those to be required. The majority claim that the target of the bill is to facilitate the bioavailability of those who are blind, visually impaired, or who have other printing inhibitions to produce tasks. Those approved by the authority of the bill will take the initiative to take the appropriate measures to ensure that the rules will not be abused. Such rules and measures may be placed in a cooperative or cooperative agreement with the established units and Member States. In view of the above, the committee considers the expression 'to be appropriate measures' to be taken in Article 1. Ex-huts 2. The bill is satisfying. The committee was told that it was not consistent between the regulations of the bill and the coverage of the report but according to the d-d-d-d-d-dr. The bill is restricted to an author, but it refers to a court of law in a paper with the bill. This would not necessarily be the rightful authority who authors a job but who also has the right to be a publisher. A publisher who invests in the publishing of a job may suffer loss when a second issue of work is completed. In the treatment of the matter, there was also a perspective on the importance of the change of authors' status or the failure of the publishers to see their benefit in publishing audio books as well. It would have to be considered whether to limit this or to try to add the audio recordings made or present to counter payment to the publisher. It also stated that there will be a review of the order of the music library and will make needed replacements for the collection in cooperation and agreement with the courts. In addition, it was noted that the range of loans from the Audio Library was difficult to find. Qualifications and Directive 2001/29/EC guarantee authors the exclusive right to authorize and ban the use of their work. The purpose of the law and of the decree is to give writers the opportunity to turn over their rights and thus earn money to continue their creation. Thus, the right to publish literary works is usually delivered temporarily to a publisher who usually has the exclusive right to give such works a period according to the rules of the agreement with the author. Thus, the right publisher is not the personal right of authors. Rather, it is based on agreements with authors. There are certain limitations in the exclusive rights of the authors. ensuring the bioavailability of the blind and others who cannot use plain printed languages. These restrictions also apply to the author's contracts with the publisher. In many countries such limits are set without the pay of authors, and this is in accordance with the International Convention, which states that Member States have a choice on this issue. However, many countries have a rule of paying compensation to authors, including the U.S. ... alltheNinelands. This has been sanctified by the fact that when printed books are made in a different format, they do not involve the interests of other writers, since the purpose of limiting books in a different format is only for those who cannot use the printed language. Safety precautions also have to be ensured. With the introduction and increased production of audio books on the market, this limit has become less clear, but it is not likely that blind and other visual disturbances or dyslexics will be able to use audio books on the public market without any assistance. However, it is clear that the difference has become smaller, so the committee stresses the availability of the cooperation of the Audio Library and the publishers of the together-integrating process and the implementation of loans, provided that borrowers of the Audio Library have access to audiobooks at the same time as a book comes out for the first time in print, as the purpose of the unique rights of writers is limited to balance the status of individuals with visual or read impairment to those who do not have such disability. In this context, the majority points out that according to the precept of Article 14 of the Directive (EU) 2019/1564, which the bill is intended to introduce, it must not be required that those authorized to make use of the expanded access check for whether a work to be read through a sound book is already available on the market. In view of the definition of rights and the purpose of restrictions, it is not appropriate to assume that improvements on the basis of its use are paid to those who are justified on agreement with authors, particularly in view of the fact that security measures should be taken to ensure that no one can use copies made on the basis of limitations other than the borrowers of the Audio Library. It is also impossible to legalize that prior to the use of restrictions is to check if a accessible form is already available on the market. In terms of access to the rights, information on loans and security will be loaned the bill aims to lay down and walk after such information is available, as c-jords 1. 2.g. The bill. The majority suggest a specific adjustment proposal, and I'm going to read them up, a respectable president, first regarding Braille. It says: In the treatment of the case, a view was found to replace the word ◯-blind writing in 2 mgr. d-joints 2. gr. The bill. The majority of the items are listed above and considered to be wording. to match Icelandic and Icelandic Sign Language legislation, No. 61/2011, which makes changes in its content. So here is another point for taking effect and more, and here it says: In the 9th. The bill is suggested that the law be accepted on January 1, 2021. In view of that time goal, the greater part contributes to the change in the law's ability to gain value already. In addition, the greater part contributes to technological changes as well as minor word changes. In view of the above, the greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the adjustment made in a special Senate document and under this publication, as well as in the context. Councilmen Páll Magnússon, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Birgir son of Ármannsson, Katla Þórhildardóttir Thorhjörgdótir, and Steinunn Þóra, the Árnadóttir of Aarna.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u42	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir's daughter for this. I was just going to give them a compliment to the government groups for performing this bill. That's a hell of a deal. I just want to draw attention to the fact that the writers' laws like them stop a very important development in all kinds of language and knowledge based software and therefore cannot develop video games and plays programs and all kinds of software we rely on in our daily lives. In this context, you can also refer to endless complaints that children do not read well enough. At the same time, there is nothing to be done to increase the knowledge of English in what children are seeking today, which are video games and all kinds of applets that young people rely on, both in school and elsewhere. But they only use English, and they drive them down in English. I hope this is the potential first step of the groups now in the government in order to pay for innovation and for the development that we need for our language. Thank you so much for being paid for the bioavailability of visual and blind people.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u43	A respectable president. I may not have to answer a lot of questions. paritaprevir Katla Þórhildardóttir Thorhjörgdóttir this time, but only agree with the senator that it is good for us to be at this place, and I think this will have a very positive effect in many places, as the senator did well. I'm glad we're this far.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u44	Madam President. I'm just gonna take the opportunity to encourage other political parties in Iceland to expand their horizons a little, open my eyes, look this out of the big context. The legal rights they are today are not helping the Icelandic to the future. We need to keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u45	A respectable president. As we have seen, this is a matter that needs and a good matter that I support in my mind, which is being paid for the access of a group to write a language of great importance to the group that otherwise should not be enjoyed. I support this and have a positive attitude toward it, and I realize the importance of it for this group. I do, however, have a slight change proposal. This bill speaks of reforms to authors. I want to expand it and talk about benefits to the court. I am not preventing authors from getting their benefits from the public for this use of the mental powers of those who are normal and for granted. Rather, I suggest that these improvements also go to other courts. A book is not just a book. A book will not just appear in the head of a writer and then reach into the head of a reader. It's a little longer and more complicated than that. Most of the books published in Iceland are published by book proposals, which perform considerable operations. It is quite lively, and it is a major industry, a book edition, and a number of people with expertise in this area of literature. One factor is editorial work, helping the author to get his work together, and it can be a great deal of work behind it. This work can revolve around various applications around the books. There is a market work around the books, coat design, coat covers, and so on. In other words, it is quite a few people who operate in making books without being titled authors and without much being seen in this literature field. They're invisible people. They're back there. But now, these people, there are those who do these things, and they feed their bread of this trade. The people work on it, and no one has the right to enjoy the fruitage of that work without paying for it. That's the way it is in life. When we purchase some products, we provide natural resources for a particular work enterprise that has been made, and so do books. However, we realize that there are groups in the community referred to here, which the government needs to share in making access to these works without paying for it itself. In fact, it is usually so in museums that all we have to do is pay a small annual fee for our library card, and then we borrow books and all the good things we can do about it. I think this case is fair and right. But I also think that, perhaps not as much, but, nevertheless, fair and rights that others don't have rights but writers get benefits for this use. Justice workers can be the publishers I have now traced to all kinds of expenses around the book making. They have made a deal with the authors to publish the books and place at certain expense in preparing them as products at the market, and the author and publisher divide between them the income that comes when the book is sold on the market and enjoys publishers. Similarly, publishers lose when the book finds its way to readers past the market. It tells itself, you can see, and a fair thing to say is to make it right. The publishers are also involved in this case, and it's kind of just what I think it's a little bit about, we have to face the fact that publishers are members of this case. They are also party to a contract with the Audio Library, and they need to be at this level as much as a author. Rights can also be people who have inherited history, who can be descendants of poets and writers, and those people too have their rights. We may be inclined to think that someone who is the son of a great poet enjoys something. Why would he do that? It is a different debate, one that is viewed, at least according to the author's law. They are also righteous people. I support this case and suggest that it be accepted. However, I have the small change that, instead of the words'stemper' and the word'stempered in 1st. d-joints 2. gr. Come and say, 'Justifiably;' and, 'Justifests.'
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u46	A respectable president. I come up to ask you what. The senator's view of the committee and the motion of change, and he wants to say first that I'm not necessarily opposed to that new proposal. But I don't think it's quite right next to him. A senator says that it is only natural for people to hold back from their parents from making money from their own ideas. If I try it on my own, my mother is a moviemaker, like I've mentioned many times before, and my father's a soundman, and myself I'm writing software. I can't understand why I should inherit money from the CDs that my father has worked on or made from the films that my mother has been working on, and I don't understand why my child should inherit the income that can result from the software that I write myself and publish today. Also, I don't realize why I should get benefits for someone taking the software and changing it for the benefit of people with disability. I'm totally from understanding it, don't know why I should understand it, or what I'd be getting better over my head. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's view of this is only because I don't completely agree that this is another matter. I think it's the essence of the matter, the essence of a change. Senator. I'll figure out what to say. A senator with publishers, and as a means of understanding that argument, I find it more logical because of the fact that people are making money for jobs that they are making themselves. But, hey. In his talk, as is often said in these discussions, a senator said that people do not have the right to think of others whom they have not suggested. Why, in the face of the same heirs, are heirs entitled to receive something from their minds? That in itself is my question to the question of why. A senator and I realize that here we may be going a little deep into the nature of a writer, but that doesn't come from my opinion. I don't think he's too much, and especially what's normal limits on this kind of possession rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u47	A respectable president. Thank you. That's a good answer from a senator, and I can only answer a little fast and good: I have no idea, I don't know, and I don't necessarily have any more to do with it than that. Senator that it's stuck, and that's not the point of my case and my suggestion. It is far more about the rights of publishers whom I am interested in, and I am from a person who puts in a bookmaking process but who is not an amateur for that inheritance. Often, we're here in some discussions about genetics and genetic arrangements, but I haven't put myself in and prepare to discuss it in this necklace today. Although I have a good sense of self - worth and think I'm well fallen for many things, I may not be afraid to start running genetics at this point. I'm just saying I'm sorry. But I'm glad to hear it. A senator would support my adjustment, and he would see the main thought behind it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u48	A respectable president. I haven't finally made up my mind to vote on the individual rules of the bill. But at least I don't object to a suggestion. A senator at the moment. I'll guess if we do. A senator would discuss genetics and rights, and all of that might be more agreed on that matter than necessarily all aspects of the author's case. But what I find so interesting about writers is that he seems to be a very special species of possession, so complex, that it's pretty hard to explain to a child, e.g. Why is it not acceptable to copy some form of entertainment without permission? This is because children can easily understand that you are not to offend people, not to hurt people, not to lie, and not to steal. But if you're going to explain to a child authorly, we're already in a rather complex process, and if you forgive, a respectable president, the most destructive law with all manner of chaos and strange historical explanations that do not seem logical even after a few discussions and what we first look at. That is why I feel that it is important that we use a certain criticism to authors and authors' rights. I realize perfectly that there is more to it than just saying because we are members of an international partnership that allows for the structure of a written structure so that these are changes that would need to take place on an overwhelming scale to become reality. But I think we should, within the range we can, go as far as we can in keeping the originals in line with something we might call common sense. Now, in itself, I have no question to ask. A senator and he will respond if he chooses. In any case, I think that we should have a critical view of the writers. Maybe that's what I'm trying to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u49	A respectable president. I think me and what. At the time of the event, a senator may not have differing views of the author's rights, and I look forward to having a conversation with him. A senator on the subject whenever an opportunity arises to do so again. In my opinion, it is not difficult to explain authorhood to a child, and all you have to do is tell a child a story that has been written on this subject and on the written form. That story is well - known to all of us as Little Yellow Chicken. Little yellow chicken found seeds, etc. It is about a writer's receiving a fair share for his creation. Someone makes something, creates something, and then puts it on the market, and then it's fair and normal to pay a price for its use, there's nothing complicated. What is complex is that technology has enabled us to approach the authors of people, and then I am talking not only about books but about every song of authorship, and I have almost raised the possibilities, and simply hard to protect ourselves from, taking advantage of the technology in order to take the most reliable authorship of all kinds of artists. This has been an abnormal condition for a long time, i.e. The technology hasn't hooked up with the artists, and this has drawn our feet a little bit off the job of artists and artists making it possible for artists to make their art, and that's when I'm talking about the publishing and the studios, the record industry, and all of this. This has resulted in a loss of focus and has been a very abnormal situation, and I hope that we are gradually finding the way into the normal environment in this area.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u50	A respectable president. I will only continue with the philosophical speculations we have been in connection with the authorly in this matter. First, I would like to say that I support the matter despite the fact that there are laws I'm not convinced of being necessary or over my head reasonable, i.e. on the matter of improving authors especially the fact that their work is adapted to those who are disabled. I think now I'll vote with the case, I'll guess it now. I'm going to make up my mind forever, but I think it's normal that we ask ourselves why things are like them. If I was going to start talking about genetics, it would only be a problem, but in general, we would be talking about what I'm going to call the traditional rights of possession. National rights are part of what is known today as the traditional property rights, which are a very special form of possession, which in the past spells out a very strange law. This is because authorship has to do with ideas that are not made from secular things. The reason we put the price on things and don't let them steal, e.g. is that there is not enough for everyone. There is some lack of all secular things, and because of lack of it, we have invented property and money and other means of trading property with the intention of somehow enabling these worldly things to be taken into account in some reasonable way, we can at least try by means of that arrangement. In addition to the relatively free market, there is a complete record of success, requiring justice, human rights, and all kinds of things. But when it comes to thinking, it may be obvious. When imagination is copied, nothing is taken away. The reason for us to act the way it is, and we have such legislation as it is, is that it was a business model that was logical at the time when the printery was invented and the court of authorship began to become something that people needed to take a little bit seriously. Of course, when the copying of ideas stopped, the authors needed something to pay for their work. The question was how. Of course, it was by copying the model we knew of worldly things, limited quality, in other words, by creating a certain avatar deficiency ◯. The artificial lack is that people must not copy. That's where the shortage comes from. It's the shortage that makes the value of ◯ i.e. price on the product that the author then sells to be absorbed. There was no illogical thought in the printing machine's invention or when mental copying began to be very easy. But as the technology moves forward, it's up to that stage right now, I would say that if we were now considering this, we would never, ever, contribute to the system we live in today, either in Iceland or in foreign lands. I don't think anyone would think that. I don't even think there'd be any discussion about it. The reason for this, I suppose, is that this way, this business model we have since designed this property rights, assumes conditions that are no longer there. Information is essentially free of charge. It takes nothing and effort to copy a lot of information. That doesn't necessarily mean I'm standing here with the solution for all of this. I don't know how it's best to create a system, so authors get something for their turn, something fair. I want it to be that way, I think it's very important indeed, both for fair reasons and for economic reasons. But to mention some things that are completely at odds with this idea, I'd like to mention the struggle that was long in place about putting the law on the others and these tissues like Pirate Bay. It's kind of out of all the discussion today, even from the Pirates, because we have Netflix and Spotify. That's why. It's not because the law has worked so well that people stop picking up authorial material without paying for it, but because it is the market where the consumers felt fair and the consumer said yes and is willing to pay for it. Another thing that has also been forgotten, forgotten, and forgotten is that the cost is not only competition with what is copied in a corner of author's weight but also free material published by volunteers or interested persons. In fact, some sort of mixture has come of it, and I want to name Patrion.com. That's an interesting model. There are various creations, such as. on YouTube, which makes very good, long, well-worked, well-worked, time-consuming videos all over the sky and on the planet, either for entertainment, information or recreation or whatever and gets monthly from its subscribers who simply give money to keep the work going. In this model, there is no need to prevent the spread of the material, no one. On the contrary, even without paying, the authors benefit from the fact that the video is going the most often and that most people watch it. These models are still developing, and they are not clear where they end. I don't have the solution here, and, actually, I'm not sure that it's the job of the Generals to find the solution in themselves, it's much more a private person to experiment on these topics because we can assume that most of them will fail than any will, like Spotify and Netflix. Not that they're free of any criticism about how they're doing to writers, it's not like that. But once again, thinkful of the needs of those who are disabled by something sordid. Then I say as a software developer, who has both published free software and worked for various companies in three countries, that no one needs to pay me anything to specialize in the software I create, whether I make it against fees or not, to the needs of disabled people. I think it's just as likely as paying taxes to my community, so it might make access to disabled people, I think that's exactly the same thing. I just think it's a normal part of society that we meet the special needs of disabled people. To say, I don't necessarily object to paying such compensation, as I did earlier, but I have doubts about it. If we want to get further into our doubts about the right course, we can ask another question. Hv. paritaprevir Ingi Igngi Kristinsson in his day made a good point of changing authors' laws in such a way that authors of houses, i.e. An architects or people who were just ahead of building plans, design of houses, could not prevent people from changing houses to meet the needs of disabled persons for access. The response to that bill was interesting from the authorly established organization; in short, it was. A senator and I didn't understand the authors' terms. Then there were explanations for why this is a bad idea, which I consider to be completely preposterous, by reason of the fact that people who have a building can change it so that it is a better access without asking one or anyone about it, except possibly an engineer who can do the job well and safely. It is ironic that this is the subject, and I expect to accept it when it is in a certain way, but positive as I say, I'll back it up. Likewise, if we are going to have it so that everything we do in life is that we are to become involved in it, we can ask: Why is it not the worker who builds the house that takes part of the rent, which is logical, more honorable? I don't think so. I don't know why it should be like that. But I know why it is that way when it comes to mentality, that is because the business model needs somehow, and we do it by trying to tread the property rights into the commercial model that was invented at the time, which is to limit its version, thus creating a price tag that can be used to pay authors. I don't offer many solutions, a respectable president, I have to admit it. Now I come to the public squares with problems or comments and doubts, but there are positive signs of world authorism in terms of the changes in business models and more about services, even in software, that it is much more common to provide software that serves as a service rather than a product. Of course, it's just one form of model, not holy or otherwise. But I believe that it is positive in its nature that new business models continue to be tested that do not rely on forbidding someone to use the unlimited resources we have. When it involves time and effort, even material, it is an inexhaustible resource when it is created. That knowledge can become an inexhaustible resource in the sense that everyone can have the same knowledge without any loss, contrary to the fact that we all can read. Why should we have to pay someone for that knowledge? Is it not better that all of us can learn to read without paying someone? Is it not better that we be able to go on the Internet and learn a language as we please without paying one or no one? In fact, there are various ways that I would recommend learning a language online, if considered, that cost money but that is not needed. Isn't that better? Is it not better that we simply copy the open software we use, Firefox, Linux, and other things, as we like? I think it's better, Mr. Honorable President. I have a certain expertise in software, a person from that sector, and I use open software as much as I can possibly within reasonable limits, almost entirely at least, but then I also have a few computers that have all kinds of operating systems, I have a Windows computer at home and Mac too, for the sound processing mostly, and I find it in these charge systems, where there are restrictions on copying all possible objects, what I'm free to do in them, how little I can. I think it's basically worse, but I think it's better if I'm not allowed, that I can do better than I can't. If we can find business models that allow people to be able to be able to do more so so that the authors can still get a fair salary, we should be interested in such solutions because the old model is defective in many ways, like the ones I have considered in this talk. This matter in itself illustrates the defect. According to this, when enough people in the world see the light of that material, I do my speech on that positive subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u51	A respectable president. I thank you for the fine talk, but I felt that we were even closer to each other as the talk went on. With all due respect for what's happened. A senator and his remarkable software project, which I don't question, I would like to allow myself to question it. A senator is at his contract the man who has the right to speak on behalf of authors and who would decline on behalf of the Icelandic authors for this use. I don't know if it's always smart enough that we're talking out of ourselves. They are filled with people who have their bread, who live by writing books, who make books. It has been provided by selling these books on the market, old - fashioned books on the old - fashioned markets paid for in the old - fashioned crowns. That's how it's still a major economy out there, and we may need a little respect for it. Yes, lack of money. It's a bit of a fun thought with the shortage. Prior to the writing of self - centered people, there was a shortage of independent people in the world. That book did not exist. They are also deprived by writing to self - centered people. Halldór Laxness wrote to independent people, and that book came into existence. I believe that self - centered people cost so much effort for their author that he deserved, as if the worker who built a house gets a purchase for what he does - that may not be fair and not get enough money to buy, but he gets paid. Thus, the author of independent people too is to be paid for his work when writing such a book, even though it was a much inferior book. It's only fair.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u52	A respectable president. I have to agree with what. A senator that it can be silly when members of the council speak out of themselves in a pita. I'm guilty of it, and sometimes I try to get out of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u53	Me, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u54	So I can agree with that. But I have to keep in mind that when I've not been a member of Congress who's been part of my professional experience, I've done software, and when I finish the council work on September 25, the next I intend to continue creating software. I make software today, and I want to give it to you. I'll publish it under open permission which only works because of the author's weight so it's kept in place. I have no disagreement that a writer should be able to survive his work. On the other hand, sometimes I feel that things are obvious in an author's rights that I simply don't find obvious. I'm going to quote the first sentence of Pirata's policy on authorhood. She's this one, with President's permission: (b) What is required of those who do the divine will? There's no difference. But it does matter how we have things, and it is important that the right of property not be passed on by others, such as the building I mentioned. Hv. A senator or someone with disability may buy property, want to improve access, and may not, must not change his property for which the person has already paid because someone else owns the author's property and controls the appearance of things. That's where things overlap. It's not so obvious how to keep this. But again, a respectable president, I must give it to him. A member of the council that I offered very little of solutions, if any, in my speech. I think this case, like authorial cases in general, is a reason to reevaluate what it is we're trying to achieve with an author's right over our heads. If the sole goal is to earn money for writers, then there are other ways to do it, but simply to prevent replication. [[The president calls.]] But we're just in the middle of a revolution, so it's not quite clear which methods are working exactly.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u55	A respectable president. These are interesting speculations and discussions. Possessions, indeed. The author, who writes books and writes stories, so I stick to them - I know until I'm about to take an example of myself. A master comes up with a story, and it is some special history that is shaped by what a writer has read and experienced, how he thinks and how he writes. He makes something unique, though, that is really like an orange. When someone grows an orange and puts it on market, they get some price for their oranges. The same is true of a writer. When he writes a story, his orange, and puts it in the market, he gains some kind of interest from it. He is paid for it, and that in itself is not complicated. His rights are merely about the right to gain interest in the work and rights of other rights, the publishers, is about getting something for themselves, something for their investment in the particular work, and the effort to make a product from this specific story. I just don't see what's so complicated about it or why it's hard for us to pay for this product rather than for orange or banana or whatever it is. I can't figure it out. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u56	A respectable president. I make no disagreement that the author should be paid for his work. The reason for this difference is that if someone else gets the orange, they can't eat it and they get off their property. There are a number of examples of people giving ideas because they don't stand for a profit, but because they just need some equipment, like many, if not most programmers do. They create software that they themselves need to achieve some goal, whatever it is, and then give it out and allow it to be enjoyed by everyone in the world. In fact, a lot of software is released under these waters because it's not oranges. These are not the worldly benefits that the authors will experience in distributing. Because of the fundamental differences between these two products, it is only natural for us to think differently about how we make business models that are made to pay paid to writers, whether authors of literature, software, movies, music, or anything. On the ground, once again, I don't disagree. I want the customers to be such that it pays to create things, to create imaginations of all species. But as we get closer to the phenomenon from physics that just doesn't apply to that phenomenon, we're creating complications, and it becomes strange things, like what I find very strange, i.e. that the author's right is to assume that after the death of a parent, the offspring will earn their income. I think it's weird, and I don't realize what fairness is to be behind it. I think such ideas arise and become active because, as time passes, the author's rights and their environment get complicated by people trying to deal with such things - a respectable president. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] I have to finish my speech here because of no time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u57	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a board of committees on bill to legalize the Law on the Lugano Treaty and the recognition and full judgment of private matters, no. 7/2011, British exits from the European Union. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted Þorvaldur the People's Council of Heiðar Þorsteinsson Department of Paderdresteinsson. The committee didn't get any reviews. The bill is presented following the European Union out of Britain adopted on June 23, 2016, by national law and formally announced March 29, 2017. Britain's exits became a reality on January 31, 2020. According to an eviction agreement between Britain and the EU, a so-called adjustment period lasted until the end of 2020, which included Britain's commitment to enforce the EU rules temporarily after the completion of the relationship, including Brussels Regulation No. 12152/2012 including deals with the Lugano Treaty on judicial authority and the recognition and full judgment in private matters. The previously defined lead-in period is now over, and the United Kingdom is no longer a member of the Lugano Convention, but it has applied for its independent involvement in the contract, while negotiations for which negotiations are not finished. The bill suggests that we will be lawed on the Lugano Treaty on judicial authority and recognition and full judgment on private matters, No. 7/2011, will be improved provisionally as a guarantee that the contract and the three books that are relevant to the case received by Icelandic courts for the treatment of January 1, 2021. Then it is suggested that the same value of a case passed by the Icelandic courts be treated after that time, provided they are based on a judgment pronounced in Britain by the end of 2020. The majority of the cases related to the Lugano Treaty may be a major interest in individuals and lawyers, and the majority of them believe that it is important that the interests of them be guaranteed, despite the fact that Britain is no longer a party to the agreement. In that case, Britain has guaranteed legalization that this land will be followed by similar Icelandic cases according to the Lugano Convention's terms and guarantee of commitment. According to the above, the greater part contributes to the continuation of the bill. Under these writings, Þorsteinn Magnússon, president and executive, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Birgir the son of Ármannsson, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gönsóttir, Árnadóttir Thornadóttir, Þorbjörg Gunnlaugsdóttir Gunlugadóttir, and Sæmundsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u58	A respectable president. I present a committee opinion with a change to bill to legalize the health insurance law, or insurance protection in clinical pharmacology studies, from a greater part of the health committee. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by visitors, and the committee received a review of the matter from the Hospital. The bill suggests that insurance protection on health insurance will be expanded to include subjects in clinical drug studies in medical institutions where investigators do not have sponsors. As told by Land Hospital, there are changes estimated on the health insurance law, but it also points out that the maximum improvement rates from health insurance are low, or 12 million. K. The hospital points out that if a person in a drug study is affected by his involvement and the damage goes up to a maximum of 12 million. Q., the patient himself needs to appeal on the basis of a law on harmy responsibility to gain the difference improved. Sets the hospital to reevaluate the maximum amount of money. According to Article 1. if the patient suffers from physical and psychiatric damage related to the investigation or disease therapy in the patient's interest. However, those who undergo non-pattern medical experiments in diagnosis or treatment of disease are also protected by the law and generally have the same rights as patients, but in some cases more corrective to repair than others to suffer loss. Increased rights consist of first less evidence requirements, i.e. There is no doubt about it. Second, the law's guidelines for maximum improvement are not applicable to those undergoing non-lesional medical experiments or treatment of disease. The evidence behind more extensive reforms includes to pay for volunteers to undergo medical experiments. Patient insurance laws assume that improvement to patients should be minimal and maximal. Was it not felt the need to make such a fundamental change in the law, to eliminate the maximum improvement this time, so that the desired goal could be met. Patients participating in drug studies will therefore need further improvement due to other mechanisms of injury. On the other hand, individuals who do not qualify as patients in the sense of the law will fully be restored to the other conditions of the law. The majority of these points point out that work on a full re-examination of health insurance law is already under way at the Ministry of Health. Therefore, directs the more part to the Ministry specifically to see if there is any basis to revise the maximum financial sum of the law. The support of the large part is more technical. Two. Section 4. The law is referred to 3 mg. Section 3. Upon closer examination, a greater part thinks that the exception of clinical drug testing in non-back endothelial clinics is also indicated to make sure that the guidelines are clear. Sets more parts to change the content. In view of this, the greater part contributes to the approval of the bill by the following change. After 1st. A new article, as follows: Following the word "disease treatment" in 2 mgr. Section 4. The following instructions are given: except for human clinical pharmacology studies with no sponsor, as confirmed by the National Competent Authority. Hv. Senators Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir and Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson are signing this opinion in advance that they intend to explain in their speech. Ásmundur Friðriksson was away from the hearing. Under the heading, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Chairman Helga Vala Helgadóttir Gulblörnótttir, in advance, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, in advance, Ólafur Rafney Magnúsdóttir Kolbrún Þór Gunnarsson, and Vilhjálmur Árnason. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u59	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to correct a patient's rights law, but the bill was written at the Ministry of Health. Its objective is to create a law code on the procedure set up in the medical institutions of the country when it comes to situations involving forcedness, use of force, or other means of self - determination, freedom, and privacy of patients. The bill therefore suggests changes to the rights of patients hiding, including in the context of the principle under no charge of forcedness, new directives for the definition of forcedness and telecommunication, conditions that must be available if a physician decides to use an order to ensure patient safety and telecommunication, as well as a court order to follow and follow the application of such procedures, including registrational cases, lawsuits and judicial hearings. The bill is a factor in the government's response to comments made by the U.S. Marshal at the end of a three - block mental wards at a Strategic Hospital in October 2018. The surveillance visit was conducted on the basis of the so-called OPCAT monitoring committee, which consists of independent agent surveillance visits in places where free-minded individuals are staying. OPCAT refers to an optional book dealing with a UN Convention against torture and other brutal, inhuman or disrespectful treatment or punishment. The bill also responds to comments made by the European Commission on defense of torture. The Commission has repeatedly identified a lack of clear laws when addressing the application of any form of forcedness in the local medical institutions, especially in order to reduce the risk of inhuman treatment. The bill does not add resources to the forced use of patients; it is intended to set clear rules with a view to ensuring better patient rights. If the bill is legal, health institutions and personnel of the health department should avoid administering any form of forced action to patients unless absolutely necessary and in accordance with the guidelines of the law. A respectable president. In view of the contributions of this bill to correct the patient's rights law, I think it's right to mention two things related to the subject of the bill. First, at the General Assembly on June 19, 2019, no. 41/149, total review of law law, No. 71/1997, a special committee of council members, was assigned to do that work. The Parliamentary Committee is given a broad task in the synonym over reviewing the entire legal law, but the Committee was also commissioned to make proposals for needed changes in other laws, including the patient rights, child protection laws, No. 80/2002, Laws on Rights for Those who are disabled, No. 88/2011, No. 19/1940. It should be noted that at work at the Department of Health, as discussed here, the chairman and staff of the Council Committee was consulted. Second, it is correct to assume that I appointed a group of 30 July 2019, to make suggestions for the implementation of Article 28. Legal legislation requiring the permission of a health minister to establish a more precise method of forced administration and other forced treatments. In the working group, I appointed a lawyer with expertise in human rights, a psychiatrist, a social worker, and a mental - health professional. The group returned a report and a proposal for me in April 2020, which includes: Consider the United Nations Substitution on torture Prevention, which has pointed to these views and spoke of the need for forced treatment only within the defined framework based on specific criteria and processes, monitoring, review and appeal options. A respectable president. Then let's get to the subject of the bill. The bill is suggested to add a section to the current legislation on the prohibition of forcedness, in which exceptional cases will be allowed to decide on the application of forced force, registration of such events to a medical registry, patient lawsuit and order of a team of expert force on the use of forced force. The bill suggests adding existing laws definitions of terms. Where there is to be a addition of a section on the prohibition of necessity, a definition of what may be considered as an underdeveloped in the sense of a law on patients' rights is required. Nursing may include physical force, e.g. to prevent harm from the patient or others, or that the patient is kept separate from another person, or the patient's access to the phone is limited. It is also suggested to add a definition of the term telecommunication that includes an electronic monitoring by a camera or a microphone. This is an overview of definitions. It is suggested that the law be added to an article of 27. b, which forbids any forced application in medical institutions. Furthermore, the ban on patient room monitoring or living quarters. In the bill, it is specifically stated that the application of penalties should also be prohibited. According to Article 27. c It is suggested that, in individual cases, a head physician or an officer of specialist authority be allowed to decide whether to be removed from the ban on forced or telecommunications. Such a decision should be in order to: 1st Avoid causing self or other physical harm or major loss of property. It also applies to preventive measures aimed at avoiding situations that could lead to loss of physical resources. 2. Fill up the patient's basic needs, such as nutrition, health and hygiene. Prior to the decision by the head of the specialist or the head of a specialist specialist, the following article will determine whether to depart from the ban on the application of forced and/or ban on telecommunication should be sought according to the patient's current position. The decision must also be announced, and, if appropriate, to the attorney the self-barrel, to counsel a man in charge, or to the guardian of a man who is being saved in a medical facility on the basis of a court order 62.g. a general penal law. In addition, for a patient less than 16 years of age, informed consent should be provided. The decision by the head of a doctor or a specialist specialist in the management of a ban on the use of forced and/or death by telecommunications should be written and reasoned, and should be made clear on the type of action it takes and indicate the duration of the procedure. The decision should be temporarily and never longer than required, but not longer than six months at the same time. In writing decisions, the conditions set for the application of this requirement, such as how it should be handled, what requirements should be made for employees and other matters considered important. If a physical abuse decision is made, those who come to use it should have taken the course of that material. The director of the relevant health care facility is responsible for ensuring that a patient in charge of forcedness is instructed on his right to sue a team of specialists on the use of forced or post-trial procedures. Second, judicial procedures take place according to the regulations of the administration. The bill also suggests that unless the decision has been made, it is permitted to be administered under compulsion. c, considered essential if this is to prevent an impending loss of body weight, a major loss of property, or a disturbance in the public interest. Promptly step aside when threatened or past conditions are present. Since such compulsions are administered in exceptional circumstances, such cases should be recorded and made clear the application, nature, and interest involved. Healthcare institutions should submit the case description for each case by specialised team on forced application according to Article 27. within one week of being under compulsion. There's a 27th floor. f all situations where the patient is under compulsion, whether used on the basis of a dispensation scale of 27. c or in case of emergency at 27. g. d, should be enrolled in a medical file. The same is true of telecommunications. At enrolment, it shall tell you how under compulsion or the monitoring, how long it lasted, who took care of it, and other relevant factors, such as the loss of injury or property. Health agencies should send on a monthly basis a specialised team according to Article 27. In a report on the application of forced or distant monitoring. Information on forced application in an emergency should be sent to the expert team within a week of the forced procedure, as previously indicated. The bill suggests that a health minister arranges up to seven individuals to four years of age for forced application. That team should have at least one. One specialist doctor, one lawyer who has an knowledge of human rights and a representative who has experienced under compulsion. It is suggested that watchmen be as numerous and meet the same criteria as nobles. At least three members of the team will discuss each case with a chairman. Specialist team on forced application will include: provide counselling to health institutions and health care professionals on what is considered necessary and how to avoid forced application. It is assumed that a specialised team on the use of duress has settled by the surgeon's office. The National Competent Authority is obliged to provide all the data, as well as the information and explanations that the team considers necessary for the purpose of this operation. The bill suggests that the decision made by a head physician or a specialist specialist should be removed from a ban on forcedness and/or ban on telecommunications status for the application of forced force. The application can also be sufficiency without a fundamental decision. When a decision is made, the National Competent Authority shall submit the details to the expert team. Dearest will not delay the right effects of a decision. The expert team shall state a ruling within four active days of the release of the charges, or the accused will fail. However, the expert team shall always seek to pronounce a decision as soon as possible. The bill suggests that the decision of a team of specialists in the state of Congress must be made, where a patient in a lawhouse should be ruled within a week of the charges. The verdict of a district judge in accordance with the law of this dear case to the U.S. Court. The procedure is based on general regulations for the handling of private matters, with the abnormalities in these laws. Other Courts of the Land than those mentioned at 1st. 167. Treated Privately, No. 91/1991 will not be reported to the Supreme Court. Ordinarily, unless a judge orders a ruling, the court's judgment will not be delayed. A respectable president. I've been explaining the main subject of the bill being discussed here. I think it's very important to keep it to the 1st. The issue is how important it is to respond to the indications that we have received from the Universal Agent and OPCAT because this is an unacceptable legal arrangement in the current situation. This is, in fact, under compulsion, without a clear law to lay the foundation. That is a fact, and that is reality. It is now being proposed by the General Assembly to state what requirements must be met in order to put under compulsion against patients in medical institutions; there are certain means to keep shooting such decisions, that such decisions should be recorded in the hospital and that the principle, the principle, in Icelandic health care, is that forced to treat patients in the medical facility is prohibited and that such decisions should also be restricted to telecommunication. A respectable president. I have made an account of the bill and allow myself to suggest that it be after 1st. Pointed to why. The welfare committee and the 2nd Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u60	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the presentation of this important bill. It is important that we clarify resolutions under operations such as those discussed in this article, forcedness, and forcedness, since patients are entitled to do so. It is the fundamental right of patients to self - rule and to exercise certain rights, to exercise self - determination. I reviewed the reviews that appeared in a court of agreement. Here is a review of the National Institute of Psychiatry, where the bill is quoted by permission of a president: ▪ The value of the bill is primarily for patients in medical institutions and their caregivers. Furthermore, the subject of the bill is addressed to health care professionals. Plans for bill and writing that the bill was published to consult government consultations. A lot of consultation was made with a land hospital. The Department of Justice and Social Affairs was agreed on by regular meetings, but legislation on security is being developed at the Department of Social Affairs, some of which is related to the subject of this bill. Furthermore, the review by President's permission states: The user's and caregivers' groups were not included with the element, and are sadly not. Thus, as the comment says: The contents of the bill focus primarily on patients in medical institutions. Real consultation is not to enunciate a bill when it has been written. Rather, it is to write it in practice with the most interested group. This time it is users of the health - care system, but it was not sought for. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Why is the use of the ministry not a concern?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u61	A respectable president. Hv. A senator asks for consultation with users in the service. I notice that in the review of the National Institute of Mental Health, it is in effect that despite the fact that the national organization wanted another combination of the group who wrote the bill, it is positive that the work has been under way under review of these pressure measures because it is important that the register is complete. Now we have a situation like that. so that no one knows how often the pressure has been applied in a mental hospital that is completely unacceptable. In the words of a mental - health counselor, this attitude is presented in a footnote. I'd also like to emphasize the importance of being a specialised team at this point in the history of a seat who has experience with forced personal life, and that's very important. I trust that mental - health aid will communicate his comments and comments with the political treatment of the matter and the reason. The welfare committee will make these comments thought carefully.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u62	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer and reiterate my question: Why was it not contacted when the bill was written to users? They consult the National Hospital and Health Centres, they consult with the Ministry of Justice and Social Affairs rather than with the National Institute of Mental help that is most relevant - and their prospective representatives. Granted, the national organisation may agree with something presented in the bill. We need to focus on what we're going to find out. However, there are also comments to the bill in the review that was not taken into account in the Ministry. I wonder, speaking of this consultation, and now I have the highest. Secretary of Congress experience: If the Ministry doesn't consider it a reason to react to the information provided in the bill at the highest level. So the minister is expecting the representatives of her party and the representatives of the greater part to go against what a minister puts out here, against the comments and indications of the users of the service, which are based on the experience of users? There are experienced people who write these comments, since these are the national groups of those who are either partners or users of the ministry. Why are such knowledge not first sought when changing laws such as these are made?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u63	A respectable president. Hv. A senator and the head of a welfare committee know that the matter remains to be handled by Congress. It is the general legislature that the lawgiver, and fortunately it has repeatedly been able to cooperate well with the bills outlined here in 1st. that these have changed for the benefit of treatment. At a vote at the Hall of Congress, a welfare committee and an excellent solidarity. But I'd like to say, as noted earlier, the plans and plans for the bill were published by the government in which Psychiatry sent a review to show that the user's interest groups had not been involved with the bill and that it was too sorry. But I would like to see that during the work of the bill, the Chairman of the Psychological Fund and that the bill was sent to the organization before it was sent into a cross-check.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u64	Mr. President. This is a very important bill on the move to improve in terms of forced or forced labor in general with the health care of any kind. This is, of course, being in response, as indicated by the bill, indications which have been repeatedly reported from the European Council's Committee on Prevention of torture as well as from the Council's agent at OPCAT, which was conducted by the Generalist for review and returned a report of 2018. The report noted that recovery would not be sufficient when it would take action against those in the mental - health system, in mental health institutions, and when these activities included forcedness, force, and intervention in their privacy would not be sufficient. That's why it needs to be interrupted. Of course, it is unwise to have a complete view of this because, in fact, there are many layers of forced action; law laws, penalties, laws on the rights of the disabled, laws on the rights of patients, child protection laws, all of which need to be reviewed at the same time. But we must always look primarily at how to avoid being forced or forced. The purpose of this bill is positive in that we must have made a clear improvement and have it clear to those who need to be forced or forced, as well as to have the box clear to the employee who uses or needs it. That's what you may wonder a little, when it's the highest. According to a minister, the purpose of this is to establish clear rules on when to use forced and forcedness, whether this bill is adequate, and whether it fulfills the purpose of making clear enough rules. The current condition in which the intervention decision is taken by mental health professionals without clear legislation is unacceptable. This was made clear in the review of the National Institute of Development when the bill entered a confidentiality, but both National Institutes of Psychiatry and the National Institutes of Development are concerned that the sources being given in this bill may be too uncertain. The last ones that are in the b-joined 3. Article 27 of the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures, published by the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania, published by the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of New York, Inc. c, are such words that it is very broad and vague. The decision made by the head of a physician or by the head of a specialist specialist, to be under compulsion or to use telecommunications according to 1. mg, it should be in order to prevent the patient from causing injury or injury to others or major personal property. It also applies to preventive measures aimed at avoiding situations that could lead to loss of physical resources. The 2nd suggests that this must also be in order to meet the patient's basic needs, such as nutrition, health, and hygiene. You are particularly wondering if this is clear enough, by permission of the president: It also applies to preventive measures aimed at avoiding situations that could lead to loss of physical or gross property. It looks like it's fully filled. It seems to be so economist that an expert can almost - and now I'm not trying to intend specialists to do anything bad, but merely to say that by confirming the bill as there is there, there is a danger that the lawyer is not going to be able to legalize clear rules. What are clear rules? How can we tell a mental - health expert that this also applies to preventing situations from occurring? This is something that we will need to consider on the committee. At the time of the U.S. government agent's visit to three closed divisions, it was reported in the 2018 report that there were nearly daily violations of the user's human rights. You will wonder if human rights are violated almost daily because decisions are not based on clear evidence, that these are decisions so that the argument for them is not good enough, and that too often measures are not necessary to protect the life and health of the patient and those around them. This is also shown by the few comments that may have started on the wrong end. It can be said that this is the case because there is no discussion of the ideologies necessary in this series of issues. How do we want these matters to be handled? How do we want to conduct mental health in Iceland? Yesterday I made a recommendation for the synopsis of the United States Parliamentary Party proposal for the construction of a new mental hospital in Iceland. Why? Yeah, because it's really time. A mental - health service in a local hospital is taking place on a growing building on the Ring Road, as is true of me. I'm the highest. A minister to study then a synopsis and to encourage the entire body of Congress to consider this because it was at least The first step to recognize that a mental - health service in Iceland has been an elbow child since its first stage. I'm not going to talk about keeping people left behind by the system, but it can't be overlooked that there are people with a sense of freedom who can't even enjoy a curfew because of the way housing is being done. I'd also like to discuss that there is no possibility of being allowed to stay in a drug ward in Iceland, like known in other parts of the North countries and in many parts of the world. This has not been arranged for mental - health services in Iceland. Therefore, if possible, the patient does not have the option to control his illness without medication. A lot of talk has been made about this in the community of those with mental problems, and I think that by 2021, health authorities have to deal with this. It also needs to be noted that the unregistered registration of the forced force will be recorded, that every time it is applied, it is recorded in an adequate way, and it is submitted somewhere in order to monitor departments. The stories that come from even the others. We're on welfare committees from people who've come to terms, the stories that come out to society when news comes on the surface, like the conditions in Eagleholt and modern stories, what's going on right now when they're using e.g. forced administration, is that there must be some kind of strict monitoring of the procedure every time you use a separate set of rules so that if forced or under compulsion, it will be recorded and monitored at all times. One review came from a person's entry into a proverbial puzzle that obviously has a lot of experience, as it seemed to be personal experience, that the threats of being under compulsion are actually under compulsion, as the individual is a subject of freedom. He is in a restricted ward so that threats of forcedness can only be dealt with by agreeing. It is not as if the person has a choice, so it is, in fact, under compulsion. I have to say, I'm looking forward to winning this bill. I can't wait to call for reviews. I look forward to getting a representative of the services users because I think that this work may also benefit us from the work being done on the table at this time, which is to decide how to conduct an investigation into the facilities and circumstances of adult people who have been dealing with disability or mental challenges in recent years in Iceland. In this regard, it is very good to have this bill in now. It is important to clear up the current action and I think it would be a good idea in Iceland in 2021 to have a targeted global policy effort on this and work on the ideologies of serving those who face mental challenges.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u65	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Prehistoric health ministers and especially for the case. It is a delicate matter, yet very important and important that we are taking the step of trying to form laws around this difficult and, in fact, a very important part of health care. As a result, I speak with considerable experience in this regard, and I may know more about how these matters work in the field when health - care professionals make decisions like this. It is not usually simple or easily done. At least that's not my experience. I'd especially like to mention a few things without going into serious trouble. First of all, it is a process of telecommunication. A remote process is not limited to forced means, but trying to peer into the text is somehow arranged in the bill. I believe that it will be one of the committee's tasks to clarify the concept better, even to give a special explanation, and especially to understand distances that are not forced from ablation that is primarily designed to monitor one's behavior or actions or actions or such. Indeed, it is different from that, for example. a monitor of vital signs or such, which is naturally done every day, and I don't think anyone will make a lot of remarks. However, when using telecommunication for monitoring, it is extremely important to record it, as shown in the bill, and that it is based on something other than emotion or anything like that, and it clearly states that it is applied on specific grounds, for a particular time, and that the case will be reviewed within a time frame. In some parts of our neighboring countries, all of these things have been given a position in legislation, and in some places it has actually gone so far that it is almost written down on how many hours each week should be recorded, recorded, and revised. There's something the committee needs to look to and cross. There's another thing I think very important, but it's only part of the bill. It's in 1st. the bill where forcedness is defined, i.e. where the patient is stuck and given medication in order to reduce violent behavior. Happily, the most frequent case is that when patients are given medication to affect behavior or such behavior, it is not necessarily forced by some means. People don't usually think so. But I dare say that it is not always written that the real reason for any particular drug being selected is to try to influence behavior more than any other factor involved in the individual's stay in a medical ward. That will be one of the things we will likely look to. I think a little bit d-join needs a 3. where there is a decision to be given as an exception from the ban on forced use. It is a separation to announce the immediate cause of decision and, if appropriate, the attorney for a man's personal expression, etc. It is not given entirely that it is the patient's interests, which is in a department in a set condition, that all treatment decisions made by the individual are made. The relationship with a person may well be more complex than that it serves the patient's interests that it is always done. In my opinion, at least A slight argument was made that an agreement with a patient may be avoided or something like that. At times, that is how it is, and personally I have often experienced such a situation. It is extremely important that all such decisions are temporary, as indicated in D-join 3. Then it is explained that it can never be longer than six months. I think it's bedy. If we are to have a warrant that may last for up to six months, there must be an indication of how often that period will need to be reviewed or at intervals. At least I think there's some kind of frame around it. True, there are some places in the bill regulations, and they may well cover these issues or be handled by regulations. But because it's delicate, I think, if there's any way, I think it's best to write a point like this into the lyrics. I think it might be worth at least one Mass to try it where it can be done. But I'm not gonna have any more of those words, Mr. President. This is a very important bill, and I'm not gonna say it's gonna be fun to win, but it's a challenge to participate in such a challenging project.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u66	A respectable president. I'd like to say a few words at the end of this brief but important discussion on this subject that I might think of as a lunch to include in the committee, because I think that all the tips that have been presented here are important. It is similar to the application of forced labor and forced forced pressure by law on rights for disabled people, No. 88/2011. I think it's important to look at those regulations, at least To see how well that source has been used and how clear it has been because, indeed, it will always be dependent on some estimate. I don't think we can have it that such sources are mechanical or predictable in any way. But what is a fixed and important safety valve is this unregistered registration. It was only shown in the earlier discussion that it was important to pry, but it is so important in the bill that the obligation to record an event, and every instance, is non-employable. It has only been referred to as the viewpoints of revising legal laws. Of course, it's a big deal, and I think we all wanted that work to go further, just in view of its being so big and important in human rights. This is a basic human right. There are issues that really need to be considered, and the council has decided to do so. What is presented here is one reason why it really is, but it comes about because this review is urgent. It won't be so much longer that we're not at least in an effort to have a clear legal base there. Because this was called for mental - health policies and policies, I'd like to mention that when I took up my place as a health minister that the council had agreed to a political resolution on a mental health care programme and the structure of a mental - health service. The approval of the Generalis, which I believe was unanimous, and all members of Congress have voted for it since 2016. What is being done in my time is to complete that schedule and ensure that, including some of them, will be saved. A second degree service in the form of mental health, all over the country. It's new. This second stage service wasn't before. In 2020, we serve 2,600 people with this means, 2,600 people who had to look for counsel in other places before. With these methods, we may be caring for those who have mental health problems earlier in health care, with more psychologists at the first stage, but also with mental health professionals at the second stage in order to reduce stress at the third level. I think this is very important, based on the principle that we want the right service to be done in the right place, that people don't have to be served until they are in deep and complex problems. After nearly four years of office, I believe that we need to continue applying ourselves to mental health. We've taken quite a number of steps during this terms. One is the need for analysis regarding housing, design, and other services. I don't think we'll solve a problem by making a decision about one specific building. We need to make a decision regarding the next step in building a Home Hospital at the National Hospital Hall, including a powerful walking - in - the - hall service, both for mental health care and for other health care services. This must be maintained with other policy measures. A respectable president. Because in answer to this earlier, the possibility that this case could in some way be part of a group of political lines, I think it's very important that it be completely held out that when I propose the case to treat the problem. I expect the entire welfare committee and the entire council to be so adjusted to the matter that we are primarily trying to get a hold of it because of its sensitivity and that we want a problem. This is a subject that should be given over political shootings, dignified presidents.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u67	A respectable president. I recommend a synopsis of the release of international agreements in the C Company for us in the Gang of the People. The scheme is as follows, with president's permission: The Council concludes to hide the government to: a. take action to ensure that the international agreements of Iceland are involved but have not been published in the Government Department to be published by the end of April 2021,◯ -- it is therefore not later advisable to dress up and begin to publish these 300 contracts, which have been translated into a drawer somewhere, for nearly ten years some of which have gained legal significance. ◯b. ensures that the publication of international conventions will be conducted regularly. At the same time, we can prevent such a reaction from being repeated, that such accumulation of unsupervised regulations and made up from our international treaties will be expected to accumulate, as is the case today. A paper with the conclusion says: It is a fundamental requirement for law to be published so that whoever wishes to study their contents can be studied. The Government has the legal task of publishing officially laws, regulations, and international agreements. Unsubstantiated orders bind governments from their taking, but in order for them to be used against the citizens, it must be published first in Government News, cr. Section 8. Law on Government News and Law Issues, No. 15/2005. How important it is, therefore, that laws, regulations and international agreements be published regularly and on a solid basis. Sadly, the publication of international agreements has not worked well enough. In the opinion of Páll's Hreinsson son on the authority of a DG and the health minister for official disease prevention measures, it was observed that the World Health Organization had not been published in the Control Department. Regarding its influence, Páll said: "The bad effects of it include the bad results. " The fact that the introduction of public disease control measures during the arrival and the departure of passengers from Iceland can't be referred to C House on the nature of the rules, cr. 2 mg. 2.g. 2 mg. Section 3. track No. 15/2005, on Government News and Law Code. When governments take important action that involves the intervention of citizens' lives, such as the borders of the border, it is a serious matter that they are partly based on the instructions given in unsupervised international agreements. The World Health Organization has finally been published in C Company. That publication was performed just a few days after this proposal was recorded in a Senate file. No doubt the official debate has put pressure on the government to complete a review of disease control laws. This has led to the publication of the Regulation in the C department just over 13 years after its natural irony, a respectable president. The World Health Organization is far from unique, but Iceland is a party to over 300 international treaties that have not been published in the Control Department. Thus, there seems to be a global problem at the release of international agreements. Bjarni Már Magnússon, a professor at the University of Reykjavík, has said that the situation was a scandal. Since this proposal was submitted, there have been four advertisements published in the CDC department, one of the World Health Protocols, two due to agreements related to Bgreit and one because of changes in the Montreal Protocol on substances that cause the reduction in ozone. No doubt there has been a great need for the two Bgreit treaties to be published as soon as possible. The Convention on Transmissions Following Bgreit was advertised 21 days after the approval of Iceland and an agreement in the form of a paper exchange between the EU, Britain and Iceland was advertised on that day. Interestingly, a change in the Montreal book has been published so quickly, one month after approval, so that the change has hardly been made to show the change where its translation is not until April 25 of the next. Hopefully, this is the first example of a changed procedure to the future, and it's fine. Yet, the gap of uninterrupted contracts that have been collected over the last few decades remains unsurpassed. The publication of the World Health Organization seems to have priority in this regard. Governments have explained that the publication of contracts is costly, and therefore it has not been available to publish all of them. This is amazing in view of the fact that much of the work has already been done, i.e. translating the contracts. So they just lie somewhere in a drawer and wait to be seen. No doubt there is some cost to work to check when international contracts are translated and published on the electronic board of governments, but the cost is hardly so great that it should prevent publication. Such activities do not prevent the release of law and regulations. If governments cannot meet their legal obligations on the basis of a lack of money, they must seek a solution to the problem. If there is a lack of funds, the Minister should contribute additional funds to the seminary. Since the government has not taken the initiative to address this problem, it is essential that the Council intervenes and instructs them to reassign their priorities and take immediate action to ensure that the publication of international agreements is being performed regularly as the law announces. It is suggested that the government be commissioned to act as a guarantee that the international agreements that have not been published in the C House of Government will be published by the end of April 2021. That period should give the government sufficient time to ensure that legal rights are available. At the same time, the government is assigned to reorganize the government's activities in order to ensure that the publication of international treaties will go smoothly in the future. With the permission of a president, I'm going to refer to a fistop that appears in the core and was written by Dr. Bjarni Mas Magnússon on February 9. in that he says that even though the decision was made to engage in an attack at the release of international agreements, almost nothing has happened in that regard. In the same article, he deals with the prime minister's bill on the change in constitution and points out that if the bill is accepted, it will be considered in Article 27. The Constitution re-registered here is a problem in which it is under obligation to present national legal contracts to the Constitution, but the Constitution is more legal than general law, as we all know. The current constitution states that laws should be published as before. The book of the Supreme Court of Björg Thorarensen, in his scholarly writings, noted that the publication of law by the intent of a minister, his grand novice, or if the publication of a law of the same causes may become a responsibility in accordance with legal requirements for the minister's responsibility. Thus, according to a Bjarni Már Magnússon article, a management bill must be asked if the same view does not apply to neglect due to the release of national rights in which the management system is aware of this neglect. Is it possible, then, for a few years to wait with publication without Ministers being responsible, especially in view of the rapid and reliable release of controversial agreements? A respectable president. It actually came as if a thunder from the open air and the woman standing here would not have suspected that the situation would have been as devastating as it would have been to show what it would have been to release our national commitments in the government department of C, if not for this tragic Covid pandemic, and if it had not been for us, we would not have received this good report from Dr. Páll Hreinsson. It actually shows, and especially with the World Health Organization, that we were in serious trouble. We could not apply our rules to our citizens, even though the State itself was committed to them. But we are now trying to pretend to be a state of justice, and one of the basic conditions in which to qualify as such is that the law is published and published correctly and in a natural way and that it is available to citizens. The citizens are obligated to be able to look into the law to see what their rights are to the law. Well, if there's no such thing as the law, it can't be applied to the citizen. It says itself, compares our legal principle with the twofold good order that everyone should really study. She's short, she's clear, she's cutting, at least what it looks like to the top of it. I'm just gonna take the top of the iceberg. I'm not going to define all the legal rules. But one thing is absolutely clear, i.e. that governments cannot do anything unless there is a legal authority, nothing. They cannot apply some rules and laws to us that have not been registered and that the city cannot study. It's just not possible and there's no law to allow it. The other part of the legal principle is that the city cannot do anything that violates the law. That is why it is so important that we can see what is in the law, and that is why it is very important now. Well, I was kind of hoping that I could just pull back this Congress resolution when I saw that our national rights were starting to be published in the C League. But as I've said here before, there were only four and there were only 300 left. What kind of slowdown is this, Mr. Honorable President? What kind of work are these? This is totally unacceptable and just beyond all limits. So, here's this also great concierge motion that I hope will only push them into action, in fact, the loss that will be taken out of the barrel, and now this will flow our national rights agreements into publication in Section C. It is hoped that on spring, we can rejoice that all these national rights treaties that lie in a drawer with no legal value to the citizens, that they will all be pacified and set very soon. I'm hoping this government will show it in action, before she goes into a campaign and asks to be re-elected, that she respects at least the concept of a legal state, and this is done by publishing to citizens the national commitments already translated and lying in a drawer, just waiting for the task to be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u68	Mr. President. I just wanted to come here briefly and express my joy with this fine suggestion. It's kind of, I have to say, rather embarrassing for our operating system to make a suggestion like this. This may be a form of a certain lack of interest in international affairs in Icelandic politics. I don't think in this case it's probably not the State Department or the staff involved, but it can be assumed that there's a considerable interest in foreign affairs, but somewhere there's been a misbehaving process that's normal. Of course, that responsibility is written on the foreign minister outside. It is absolutely clear that the publication of contracts is a minimum legal requirement. This was discussed by a member of the congregation and by a representative of the matter. I just want to say that there's a little bit more to go. Thus, we may be party to various contracts, various forms of agreements, declarations, and so on. Some are signed, other legalized and different positions on all of this. Some are through the European Council, one through two-way communication, some of which are probably through, for example. The Council of the North and the Norwegian Ministers and so on. I've made an attempt to try to cover it all up, and it really failed. The worst part about this is that it's really impossible to know how well you've been going, considering that nowhere is a complete list of all of this. So I would think about it and offer it as a clean addition to this matter. The General agrees with the law, but the law goes through a process that ends with publication in the Law Display. Then they will take value in the light of validation regulations. Nevertheless, the Allied Council holds as an institution outside of law. It's updated a few times a year, and it's a really cool career. You can assume that you can go into the country and see exactly what the laws are. It's really good. It's just a little obvious, normal process. It would be helpful for a publication of international agreements not only to be published in the Law Display but also to be run by a comparable body of agreements, e.g. State Department. The exact form may not matter, but rather that there is one place where you can go, as it were, that you can find all the contracts you have in Iceland. This is not a great demand, and technically it is quite easy. I'm sure there's a lot of work to start, but I think there's a reason to get this process going.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u69	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a judicial hearing of the formation of elected representatives within the United Nations. I have made this case a few times before, in 149 and 150th legislatures, but a similar motion was proposed by Augmund, son of Jónasson, at the 145th and 144th. So this is, in fact, the fifth time this suggestion is made in some form. The proposal remains largely unchanged from the first donation, but the report has been updated slightly and a package with a challenge from the UNPA Campaign. I'm not going to read the entire series, so I've read it twice before, and I think it's still so. Senators can study it. If it is unclear, my previous talks can be considered on the subject. The key point is that there is a greater need for international cooperation on the United Nations. I specifically mention it because the United Nations already has the only organization on a global scale that covers nearly every country. There is a need for more cooperation on that scale, and it is important to increase the onset of democratic activity. So I'll read from the report, with the permission of the president: ▪ More and more frequently, voices are being heard to look for ways to make weighty decisions in the name of the United Nations in a democratic way. There are many who have too much power at the Security Council, where five states, the United States, China, Russia, Britain, and France have a denial. It's a key figure. When the United Nations was established at the time, efforts were being made to create some sort of equilibrium between different factors, including the United Nations. The power and nature of the superpowers back then. It was a child of its own, and it is vital that we be updated. A long way to cut the knot is to reduce the relevance of the security board, but it is quite clear that the safety Council will not release its power until there is another stage for similar force. It is absolutely clear that when a country like China, with 1.5 billion inhabitants, has as many votes in the General Assembly as the country, such as the United States. Tuvalu - I don't remember the population there, but it's about maybe 30,000,400,000 people - a certain imbalance and inequities and really a democracies between them. It is not known to In democracies, which are the upper and lower wards, that the lower department is in some sort of relative to the population in each area, the U.S. Congress is the upper branch, the Senate, for example. with two seats per state. It also generates an equation between geographic conditions, although it was also criticized. In effect, by going out on this, we would be saying that the UN General Assembly would be a major branch in which each country would have one vote today, but the democratic lower department would have a measure of power and can work in a number of direct relationship with the local population. Exactly what this would involve is a good subject. There is a fine book called, if I don't forget, A World Parliament or World Congress by Andreas Bummel. That book is well worth considering and for reasons why it is above something worth considering. Then someone might ask, "Why would a country like Iceland or the Allied Parliament interfere with such ideas? ' Yes, the answer is that such an idea needs extensive support so that it can go up to the platform. Today, quite a few delegates around the world have supported it, including the U.S. However, quite a number of present and former members of the council. A large number of free partners and quite extraordinary numbers of people of various kinds have supported this, but they need to see the value of such a council and to show a little interest, perhaps especially following Covid and considering the growing international problems in the environment of the earth, climate change and similar. We're on one earth, on one planet, we're approaching nine billion, and we need to strengthen our interfaithal powers and strengthen our democratic ability to solve major problems that will cover the entire inhabited earth. If we do not build up our ability, the next big problem we face will be solved only in back rooms where national leaders play political games, as unfortunately they have often been. Although it has worked so far, I don't think it would hurt to have a little international access into a democratic system so that at least we could increase the likelihood that the result would be good.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u70	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a synopsis of the separation of farms. My importers are down. Senators Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Bergþór Ólason, Árnadóttir Kolbrönnadóttir, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, Ólafur Is Ísleifsson, Þorsteinn Davíð Gunnlaugsson, Sæmundsson The motion says so, with the permission of the president: ▪ The General concludes to hide a marine economist and agricultural minister to prepare and present the bill that each earth owner will be allowed to place his planet between the patriarchs. The earth must be set aside as law - heirs in a practical way, and without such a provision, a stock would be provided for the payment of an inheritance tax or the burdensome debt of the recipient of the earth to other legislatures. If I go here only to the report that follows this suggestion, I'd like to say first, because of the inborn ties to legacy, land and lifestyle, there are far more frequent land exchanges in agriculture than in any other business. The Parliamentary arrangement suggests that a marine economist and agricultural minister will be prepared and given the bill that land owners will be permitted in a simple way to settle the earth between their generations. The aim of the proposal is to trust land management and to make it easier for the inhabitants of the land to be settled within the family. To ensure land support, it is important for young farmers to have the opportunity to have older generations without forming a heavy debt burden. Often, it is the will of those who have the earth to be organized within the family and even of certain relatives who intend to continue living on it. This, however, may be a serious problem for such soils to be taken into account for younger generations without the burden of such a strain for the individual. In many cases farm animals have grown significantly because of building them up for the past few years, so it may be difficult for future generations to buy them from parents or joint heirs. Because of this, many people have had to live under heavy debt because of buying, or they have to disappear from the land and live on it. If it wants a landlord to dispose of the earth with a donor or in advance payment for an inheritance, such a taxation is under the law on income taxes or on the laws of hereditary taxes. If the earth is sold under the market to ensure continued farming, taxation has also been viewed as a taxable gift. When the value of the earth is considerable, it may be extremely burdensome for the recipient to finance the earth's market prices or to pay off the public fees that are on the above. Undeniably, these obstacles encourage the sale of land to the highest bidder in the public market. A paper with a bill for a family sanctimonious and inheritance law from 1943 says that the objective of the law is to reduce the burden of debt resulting from young farmers buying land from their parents or from their heirs. Because of this burden of debt, buyers could often accomplish little for the better of their land. After the fall of a decree on authority to the establishment of new family sanctums from the earth, the situation is by no means different. Therefore, there is reason to make a cumulative review of how to establish family exchanges in the future so that innovation will become the most important and that young farmers can take up residences of older generations without having to take on an uncontrollable debt load. Mr. President. The government is not supposed to place a stone in the streets of older generations when it comes to domestic exchanges, to generations who have worked hard to increase their value of farming. It is their property, and it is their task to care for it, as they consider best. This proposal is an important part of confidence in land management and makes it easier for the inhabitants of the land to settle the earth within a family. I hope, Mr. President, this proposal has a success here at the council. That's what I'm saying, I'm pointing her to what. Business committees and subsequent discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u71	Mr. President. Dr. Edith Eger will celebrate his 93th birthday next week. Dr. Edith Eger is an American woman who has recently told her story in the United States. She's from a Hungarian family who survived the Nazi death camp in Auschwitz, taken captive in South Poland. She was only 16 years old when she saw how her parents were referred to by her parents to a gas chamber in Auschwitz, the largest concentration camp under Nazi rule during World War II. The Nazis ruled Germany back in 1933,1945. Under their command, Germany undertook many of its neighboring countries, but in 1939 their invasion in Poland marked the beginning of World War II, which lasted until 1945. At that time, the Nazis were organized mass murders in European Jews with the goal of stamping them out, but the concept of the Holocaust has been used to describe these events. Some 6 million Jews in Europe died in the Holocaust, and most of them in the concentration camps set up in Poland, Auschwitz-Birkenu, Belzec, Chelmno, Majdanek, Sobbbor, and Treblinka. In addition, many died in the numerous Nazi labor and concentration camps. There are also other groups that were persecuted and murdered by Nazis, to form prisoners of war, disabled, Romans, homosexuals, political prisoners, and Jehovah's Jehóva. Also in Nazi concentration camps, many civilians were murdered, especially from Poland, the Soviet Union, Slovenia, and Serbia. Mr. President. Inconsistencies to this genocide can be cited as documented by the experiences of those who survived the disaster and information from other contemporaries. At the same time, there are monuments from this time and remnants of them as well as other solid evidence that exposes the fact of the Holocaust. Freedom of speech is a fundamental human right and is spent in 73rd par. The constitution. It says at 1 mg. that everyone is free to believe and conviction. Two. it reveals that each man has the right to express his thoughts, but he must be accountable to them in judgment. No law can guide a censorship or similar barrier to freedom of expression. 3 mg. states that freedom of expression can be imposed only by law for the sake of the Universal Order or State's security, for the protection of human health or morality, or by the rights or reputations of others, as it is necessary and compatible with democratic traditions. When it comes to ban expression, it must be weighed in the light of these conditions of the Constitution for limiting the freedom of expression. This is my subject here in my speech because in view of the fact that I have given up the bill I present today, there has been a fairly powerful and powerful debate in the community on freedom of expression, when can it be limited, and whether it is justified in putting it down in the face of denial of the worst crime of history, murder, cold-blooded murder of 6 million Jews. Back to Iceland's Constitution. When it comes to the freedom of expression and in view of the subject of the bill we are discussing here in Article 3. 73st. The Constitution finds three conditions for limiting the freedom of expression. First, such restrictions must result from law. Second, she must aim for some of the goals listed in the law. Third, the limitation must be necessary and compatible with democratic tradition. Communicate with democracies. As noted earlier, the bill suggested that the criminal crimes committed during World War II be publicly denied. This brings about a legal divorce of 3 mg. 73st. The constitution to limit the freedom of expression. It should be noted that the limitation is linked to a specific expression as further described in the penalty and that there is no too general limitation so that Iceland's constitution is not too limited. On the one hand, the bill aims for the previously mentioned targets described in Article 3. The 73th constitution. In this connection, it should be stated that this limitation of expression is sanctified by a universal rule, but the official denial of the Holocaust has failed to disrupt it. At the same time, the bill has the objective of protecting others'rights or reputation. This takes to heart the memories and feelings of those who died in the Holocaust, but the bill is designed to prevent gross violations of the reputation and delinquency of those who suffered such crimes. Also kept in mind the interests of those belonging to the Nazi groups. Finally, it is conditioned for the limitations of freedom of expression that it is necessary and compatible with democratic traditions. Limitance includes the prohibition against publicly denying one of the worst crimes ever committed against mankind. Crime in both historical and geographic context is near Iceland. The history of these calamities that took place during the second world war must be preserved, prevented from being undermined, minimized, distorted, or counterfeited. Why? To prevent such events from repeating. Although not an intern has tested the kind of expression the bill is directed against, it is important to be on guard and avoid it as far as possible. In this context, I would like to mention that in many countries, although far from Iceland, it has been most popular here to prevent something that has happened. But I'd like to remind you that in September 2019, a small group of men from Norway and Sweden gathered together, not far from us here in the Cathedral, waving the flag of the Neosanist, spreading leaves of the colony, where the Holocaust was denied, where the message of the colony was held - in the plain of Luskur, here in September 2019. For this reason, the media took the moment to interview an Icelandic man named the president of the Iceland Institute of this Norwegian organization, known as the Northern Front. That Icelandic man questioned the fact that the Holocaust had taken place. So it's not a remote trend that's taken place. It's just that evolution has come to us, because we're not an island. We are part of a global development that has, unfortunately, been taking place in the past few years, and I will come to that later in my speech. In many of our neighboring countries, not only has there been a denial of the Holocaust but, unfortunately, the number of crimes based on the Jewishness based on the proselytization of the newborn and others have promoted the rejection of the dead, the crime that has directed a reference to that debate, and the racial hatred organization has grown in fish. In support of this, the annual report of the European Commission on racial prejudice, the ECRI. The latest annual report for the Committee is from 2019. It shows that crimes based on Jewism, Muslims, racial prejudice, and racial hatred, as well as other religious groups, increase the rate of terror in member countries of the European Council. Especially during recent years in the Member States, a large increase in crime was seen based on Jewish hate. A hatred speech directed toward these groups is often triggered by the newborns and other groups of fanatics. The bill, which I present here with the support of the entire United States Group with the support of its troops. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson. paritaprevir So Þorbjörg's Sigríður - grandfathered Gunnlaugsdóttir has a suggestion that is necessary to address clearly the terrible developments that have occurred in our neighboring countries. It is not only in harmony with democratic traditions adopted by Iceland and engaged in alliances with other nations but also aims to protect democracy and general values as a democratic state of the Council of Europe are not inclined to promote, which is respect for law and order, democracy and human rights. In contrast, the law has previously been passed here on a land that forbids a specific expression by presenting a penalty for it. In these, it can be noted that XXV. the section of the general penalties are punished with threats, hatred words, insults, and indignities of strangers, defamatorys, and indignities. So we have an example there, and I especially want to remind you of hatred speech and threats comparable to those here. I'd like to move next to the European Convention of Human Rights as well as an international comparison because the bill I recommend here does not come from a void. That's even. contributes to the events taking place at and within the U.S. House of Capitol Hill, January 6, as well as to react to developments that have occurred in Europe and the European Parliament, especially in the last two years. I would like to take part in the European Convention of Human Rights, which Iceland is of course involved. Freedom of expression is protected in 1 0... The covenant, which was legalized in this land by law No. 62/1994. It says at 1 mg. that every man has the right to freedom of expression. The right to have opinions, accept, and continue to pass on information and ideas at home and abroad without interference by the government. This is shown in 2 mg. The law says that because of the rights of these behalfs of duties and responsibilities, it is permitted to depend on the rules, conditions, limitations, or laws for which laws recommend which are necessary in a democratic society because of national security, land defenses, or public goods, in order to protect human health or morality, reputation or rights, and to prevent confidentiality or to ensure power and fairness of law. The 10th paragraph. The European Convention of Human Rights and the 73th paragraph The constitution is a physical solidarity, with the objective of reviewing the section of the European Commission's Management Board, No. 97/1995, to ensure that his rules take into account the national commitments of Iceland. On October 3, 2019, the European Court of Human Rights concluded in the matter of Pastör against Germany that the prohibition of expression against the Holocaust harmonized with the European Convention. The Pastörs of the Holocaust in a speech given in 2010 was questioned by a U.S. senator in Germany. Pastörs carvers was sentenced to eight months' probationary prison because they had violated German penal law by their expression. The European Court of Human Rights felt that its claims included disrespect for the victims of the Holocaust. In part, the judgment stated that the Pastörs had deliberately acted falsely to bring reproach on the Jews and the persecutions they faced during World War II. At the same time, the European Court of Human Rights felt that by the conviction, the German authorities had acted in accordance with a moderate measure and did not oppose the separation of them in a democratic society. Similarly, the European Court of Human Rights, in the case of M'Bala M'Bala vs France, and at the decision of January 8, 2019, in Williamson Williamson Germany, concluded that their charges to the Court in Strasbourg were unacceptable, but they came to judgment on the offenses of Jews who and grossly dishonor the Holocaust. The Court concluded that this kind of expression did not use the protection of the European Convention of Human Rights. Only more on international comparisons. It is so strange and odd in spite of this European history, and although we are not part of a continent of Europe and have not been direct participants in World War II, we were, however, involved and are certainly involved. We are part of this story, and this story is part of our story. Yet, there is little evidence that we respect that story, whether in our legal columns or in the form of a film, by observing the 29th - year anniversary of the Holocaust every year, as all other countries do. It's strange to me and to others. Similarly, we need to be replaced by the development that has taken place with increased polarity during political discussions and with greater delinquency in the democratic tradition and democracy. Since we have seen greater extremes in European politics and international states, where hatred speech, misjudgment, and false news have been added to us, we must also show respect for this joint European story that we are involved in. It is about respecting survivors and victims of the Holocaust in order to prevent such a recurrence. We also need to show humility and respect formally in our legal code and in making formal decisions. Because I mentioned that Iceland was the only ESE, not a memory day of the Holocaust every year, it is also that many European countries have punished or justified the Holocaust, genocide, or war crime. It can be found in the laws of Austria, Belgium, France, Greece, the Netherlands, Italy, Israel, Liechtenstein, Litáens, Luxembourg, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Slovakia, Spain, Switzerland, Czech Republic, Hungary, Ukraine, and Germany. Thus, we would not be alone in a boat or with some kind of special law that would allow the freedom of the people to express themselves. No, you're not. 21 European countries have this law in their own laws. It can also be pointed out that in 2008 the European Union's decision to fight against a particular form and the expression of racial prejudice and alien hatred by law went into effect. It is shown in paragraph 1. that each Member State should take action necessary to further identify the specificity to be punished. Among these, d-d-d-dr. 1st.g. Frameset No. 913/2008 to officially agree, deny, or to grossly minimize the crime defined in Article 6. The Treaty of the International Court of Justice, which follows the London Convention from August 8, 1945, is directed against a group of members or members of a group defined by race, color, religion, ethnic origin, or national origin, and manners likely to encourage violence or hatred against such a group or members of such a group. This refers to the victims of the Holocaust. So we have an international comparison, an international precedent for legalization, such as the one I'm serving here at the Generalis Hall today. And all the exits, with President's permission, that there's a gross possibility that freedom of expression is nothing more than that, outback. We must also send a clear message, in line with what happens on a global scale, that we will never accept a hatred speech, denial of the worst crime ever committed in the Western world, or that such things will ever be repeated, or that they will be minimized by the horrors of events because the horrible things are just extraordinary. And that's what's being done with this bill. The Holocaust is of the sort that it is a unique, extremely horrible event. I just want to get back to the story with Dr. Edith Eger, who will be 93 years old next week, because I mentioned it at the beginning of my speech. In a recent interview with the NBC News Service, with the permission of a president, they told me that I was unhuman, that the only way to get out of here was like a corpse. Happily, there are many stories about those who survived the Holocaust. There are stories of the triumphs of the spirit, triumphs of human nature, triumphs of humanity. Sadly, though, the number of people who tell that story directly from their own experience is increasing. Sadly, the survivors of the Holocaust are dwindling, and there are also signs that people's general awareness of the horrors involved in the imprisonment and killing some 6 million Jews in addition to other community groups is vanishing. A recent U.S. survey of 50 U.S. states published in September last found that there is a lack of knowledge of the Holocaust in people under 40 years of age. The poll revealed that 63% of surveyed Americans did not know that 6 million Jews had been murdered in the Holocaust. One in 10 said that he did not remember hearing the word "death " in the past. As one of the shrinking survivors of the dead, Dr. Edith Eger feels compelled to divide the story, his history of horror, and also the history of hope and history of victory. I'm going to finish my speech, Mr. President, by quoting Dr. Edith Eger, who said in the above interview at the NBC News Office: I made myself a home that gave me some comfort in my soul. I could decide that I was not the prisoner but the Nazi prisoners because of their conscience. And I actually prayed for them, not me. I could turn hate into compassion. Those are beautiful words that reflect great wisdom. They give evidence of extraordinary humanity and humanity, but they also testify to the tragic experience and development of the one to which we have endured terrible events that we should keep up and remember regularly and prevent them from being deliberately disowned in order to fuel hatred, persecution, and persecution.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u72	A respectable president. I hope time lasts me to review the points I would like to come into this matter. There's a lot of them. First, I'd like to remind you of the violent fact that Fascisman's ghost knocks on the door. New pheasant is on its way. 3.m. We're out of Suðvest. Passing there, both west and east. We can see this in Germany, Hungary, U.S.A., even the rise of a catch that is perfectly complex and should be called Neophasic. What happened on January 6 of this year at the U.S. Assembly Hall was a fascist coup. Usually, when such words are used, people are shocked because they are used very often as some myth, but they are like the story of the boy who cried out and cried out, wolf; sooner or later a wolf comes. He's here. We can talk about Viktor Orbán and that he is proud to have invented the term "killiberal democracy" which in English could be introduced as an independent democracy, he is proud of it. That's a crazy idea. Then we know that working is, hopefully, a very small, Nazi group in Iceland. Actually, it just seems to be some two guys hanging up stickers and pretending to be heroes for it. I'm not gonna name the organization, I don't think they deserve it. But I've read a few things on their website, and it's good research to go through how people can believe the crazy things that are going on there. I want to make it absolutely clear that I agree. A senator offering this bill about the problem, and I'm really worried about it, and I don't like the tint if I'm gonna say it right now. Then I also agree that this is not just a foreign problem. We can't pretend it's just a foreign threat. First, foreign threats tend to become Icelandic over time. Second, this threat is impossible until suddenly it becomes very thought - provoking and overwhelming in a very short time. Although in Iceland, something like the coup attempt in the United States, it can happen, and we have to be aware of it, and then it's going to be a fasian force that's going to do it in my opinion, in view of what it is now. But I don't agree with the subject of the bill. I agree on the problem, but I don't agree on the solution. Because of it. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryenfelddotttsdóttir did some of the things she specifically answered, and I'd like to make a special statement about what I don't do. I do not have disagreements about the severity of Neospian, prejudice, or powerism in general. I'm not making any disagreement about the fact that euphoric denial is amongst the verbal talk of a recent crisis, almost anywhere else, and that it is harmful. Then I will not disagree either that the bill will pass the regulations of the Constitutions and the European Convention of Human Rights. People who seek truth are not good. It is, in my opinion, the biggest swamp we live in, that we are generally good at distinguishing between true and virgin, what is real and what is not real. History and human society make it very clear that it is not the case, and nothing shows it better than a scientific method where it can be applied over a head. Religious and cultural convictions are very popular with facts and logic, and in this context, people, even large groups of people, believe in the most incredible nonsense. Then there is no need to talk about any popular language like the other religion that we here can all speak illogical or wrong, but groups like those who reject the Holocaust. That's a crazy opinion. The Holocaust is probably one of the best proofs of a historic event ever written about, very likely, I dare not claim it as if it were not, if I am to say exactly what it is. Then there are groups like those in the United States and elsewhere, also in Iceland, during which I can call QAnon. It is a growthist nonsense and hatred of magnitude, which I have not seen in my life before, and at the same time I am interested in talking. I'm just interested in studying foolish viewpoints, logics, and nonsense, and I've had that weird hobby for years. I would need another speech to review it, actually. But it's not about me. It'll make 5G Conspiracy theories more popular and popular. They're not that dangerous yet, as far as I can see them, except in the context of QAnon and there, of course, playing some rink. Then there are the Covid-19 conspirators, such as in Planp, which is one of the worst documentarys I've ever seen in my life, and I've seen a lot of the bad ones. But it's amazing that people believe these things. But as I say, humans are not good at making a distinction between the true and the false. It's not a natural thing that we do. But then I begin to come back to the subject of the bill, which is that it's a sea of nonsense that fosters a spirit of foreigners, prejudice, and power, not just this. It is a drop in the sea of nonsense, which today attracts and draws people to novelty movements, with the intention of passing over the democracy and setting up a dictatorship. Then all I have to do is talk about freedom of expression. I do not disagree that this bill will last for the Constitution and the European Convention of Human Rights, but in Iceland there are restrictions on freedom of expression, and in Europe, in general, would normally, if not always, discuss from a legal point of view. The question is, Do we have a constitution, less often whether the concept of the limitation of freedom of expression is above our heads? These are two different questions. Does the limits of freedom of expression extend to the goals it is intended to achieve? And will it have side effects that are more negative than is planned? Besides, I find the expression protection in the Icelandic constitution and the European Convention of Human Rights far too weak, but I'm not going to get any further into it here, I just don't have the time to do that. I mean, this bill is a bad idea. I think it'll do more harm than that. I'm not going to advertise it either. I suppose there was a factor in the fact that this bill is put forward, even if it's still busy, of its own initiatives. I found this book in English, and I can't think of paying for it, because I'm not going to finance these idiots, and I'm going to blame anyone who wants to, but you can see it again, if you read the nonsense yourself, whatever it is that convinces people about nonsense. Nothing convinces the newborn more about the rightfulness of his cause than law like that. It's exactly the kind of law they're upholding and saying, "Behold, here's the proof that our Neon, disgusting ideologies are true." In other words, this brings them a weapon. That's one of the things I'm worried about. It is often noted that this is the case in many parts of Europe. That's right, including. correspondent in Germany and France Then I'd like to point out that there are no stories of success in the battle against Neospasticism. The Alternative Furr Deutschland Party is the largest in the government group and the third largest in the German Parliament, Bundstag. In spite of these laws, a newborn man, even in Germany, has not been able to bring down the law. Let us not consider such a law as a monument to the fact that we are making a success of the battle against a newly - born man. It's not like that. Hv. A senator also mentioned a man who was sentenced at his time to hate propaganda, to deny the Holocaust, and it went as far as the European Court of Human Rights. A senator was a good tracer of that story. It gave this guy some fake stuff. It turned the limelight to him, whom I know wasn't meant, but the danger is that it's happening, that it is just the limelight to this nonsense and to the people who keep the nonsense going. That's one of the side effects I'm afraid to be. It may not be a drop, but it may be some mud, at least part of a sea of nonsense that fosters prejudice and hatred and causes the rise of a newborn. I was sitting out here in the hall looking up the other examples of nonsense and finding things I can't see how legislation could be established as a hate speech, and whatever those who are terrified of anything, but it's very obvious to convince people that white people are in danger of extinction in Europe and have to take back Europe from bad foreigners. It is no problem for the newborns to give that speech without breaking the law. There I may find that I find that the approach we have to take may be the most wrong thing to do. It is possible to lie with facts in the wrong context. It can be misled, lying, and laws that do not correct it. It is necessary, from the death form of denial, that the common citizen is prepared to make this distinction when the nonsense takes place. If it is that the civilian population today cannot be trusted to read the book I mentioned earlier without being convinced of the death-relieving cause, we have to fix it, and I want to point out that it is independent of this bill. Whether this bill becomes legal or not, it still needs to be done because there's so much nonsense, so overwhelming. One of the dark side of the Internet Revolution is that the baloney, the convincing, well-produced, as said in a movie language, is on the loose and convinces a lot of people of all kinds of nonsense that leads to hatred and divisions. It's a nation that encourages it with secret services, actually and literally, so it's not a bright picture, and I'm not minimizing the problem, it's very serious and overwhelming. Then you might ask: What should we do? In fact, I'm not very optimistic, no matter what these legislations say. However, I think I know for certain that hatred speech may change something, but I don't think it has much to do with it, certainly not to the length of it. In general, however, confusion is that there is some limitation of freedom of expression as a legitimate or allowed thing or as a result of rules or constitutions, as well as a good idea. Now I have to complain only about the right so called, because I got a little tired of it over a period of time what the so - called left would be inclined to use the means of silence and force to control people's opinions, and then it happened, when I was about that. going to complain about the left so-called, that Donald Trump, which, in my opinion, is just the most recent, should not be scandalous to point out that in my opinion, was kicked by the Twitter, and then stood up right on the hind legs and began to complain that he was obliged to live with terms he himself accepted when he entered the web, in the middle of a coup attempt, and then the right thought it violated freedom of expression. Of course, Twitter itself employs editorism, just as the Morning Press talks. I kind of got stuck with it when I started seeing it because I feel that the talk about freedom of expression is always in a very bad place. This is not about whether this will pass the Constitution or the European Convention of Human Rights. That's not the question, Mr. Honorable President. It's basic. It's the bottom of the discussion. On top of it all, it turns to whether it is a good idea to limit freedom of expression. I don't think so. I think it strengthens the newborns, I fear it at all, and it raises all sorts of unpleasant questions around other evils in the world and when we have come into the process of controlling our views by law. Then I cut one in a speech from the other. paritaprevir Björk Brynjólfsdóttir Bjornsdóttir, who I hear very often from members of Congress, is the idea of changing public penal law to send messages. I am on the firm conviction when it comes to legislation and, in particular, penalties, that it is not the mind that counts, but the effect. I'm against using the law to send a message. The message we need to send is that people in a democratic community have the responsibility of being able to see and hear the world in which we live, including violent films, pornography, lying, and misdirections, without turning into fascists. It is the basic requirement that we must put the democratic arrangement itself. It's going to work out as a fact, and if it's not, democracy is weak. According to this, I want to reiterate to the final sanctuaries that the problem to be solved with this bill is overwhelming and real. We're supposed to take it seriously before it's too late. But we need to be careful about how we use it, for it is not our mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u73	Mr. President. Thank you. Gunnarsson However, I would like to ask him a few questions in his speech. Hv. A senator speaks of what I am pleased to say that he does not disagree that the bill is in opposition to the Constitution or to the European Convention of Human Rights, and it is good to hear it. However, a talk was made clear. A senator is so seamless of nonsense out there, with the permission of a president, that there's nothing going to work to get something to hold of it. I just want to point out that the Holocaust is not just a sea of nonsense. The Holocaust is a disaster, one of the most horrible events in Europe's history, none one of the most horrible, it is the most horrible event in Europe's history, so there is no nonsense that took place in the Holocaust. This is a real event that took place where 6 million people were killed in cold blood because they belonged to certain religious groups. So I'd like to get it past you. A member of the council whether he does not, however, consider the Holocaust to be the value of any form of needlepoint other than some type of conspirators that light on the Internet, as he quoted, but rather the actual events where people were killed, gathered and killed in gas tanks, whether they are not just different from any conspirators that go through the net.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u74	A respectable president. I can't quite figure out some questions. A senator's saying that the Holocaust took place, there's no nonsense. That's not what I said. I made it very clear that the Holocaust occurred and was the most studied, confirming the historical event, thinking, ever. And what? A senator does not have to teach me the seriousness of the Holocaust, nor does he have to. It seemed then why. A senator understands in my speech, which is probably my fault, that there is nothing to be done. I think there's something I can do. But I don't think the solutions are hidden in forbidding these absurd, disgusting, dangerous views. Right away. A senator asks about the Holocaust in comparison with other terrible things, say the genocide of the Armenians, alleged genocide of the Armenians, I'll just call it a genocide of the Armenians, and when asked, "May it be denied that September 11 has occurred? " It is a much lower number and, of course, a completely different number, yet people ask the question. We need to answer that question in some other way, but that this is simply not the same. I kind of have to pray. A senator to answer the question for himself. The Holocaust is certainly the most terrible crime I am aware of in Europe during the 20th century. But is it so that we put a law to ban denial of the most horrible crime and not next to the most horrible crime or next to the most horrible crime? I don't know, Mr. Honorable President. I don't understand which line to be in or where it should be. I don't agree that this approach is basically a good idea. I totally understand the point, it's a good goal. I think this is gonna do more harm than good. That's what worries me about the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u75	Mr. President. It is good for us to agree on the purpose. But I would like to direct another question to why. A senator speaks of his feeling that a certain expression is not appropriate for him to punish. Still, we're in at XXV. a term of general penalties punishing threats and abusive speech. I'd love to know, and I'd like to know. A senator will then be opposed to punishment in a general penalties against threats and abusive speech. I'd also like to get past it too. A senator, because he is thinking that the bill will do more harm than the other one, i.e. that punishment in the general penalties of denial of the Holocaust will cause more damage than the other, how we should react to denial of the Holocaust, and also because he is told that we must not suppress expression in any way and refers to the AFD Government Party in Germany, while news came from Germany today that German secret services are observing members in AFD where their actions may be a threat to democracy. This means that their phones may be bugged and their political online activity is monitored, so for the first time since World War II, a German political party is being placed under the surveillance of the intelligence agency in that country. Counts them why. A senator of these actions and decisions by the government of Germany regarding AFD, but this class has been defined as possible extremism with its dangerous consequences, being stupid, or wrong? I wish I could. A senator will also answer the previous section of my questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u76	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for objective and good questions. Whether I am opposed to threats and hatred propaganda; threats are violence in my mind; they are totally normal to ban them. I'm not against all the limits on freedom of expression. I gave a bill to ban distribution of nude movies by trespassing, for example, and is in favour of restrictions on expression freedom to protect the rights of others, such as privacy, etc. But this is generally not a good way to reach a goal, though it may be necessary, so I don't like that way even if I'm in support of it where it's necessary. I don't like punishment or imprisonment over my head. Hv. A senator asks how to respond to the denial of death. I'm gonna wait on it until later, but maybe in another speech, it's bad not to have time to do it well. Hv. A senator also asks if I approve the operation of the German Secret Service to monitor the AFD, and I thank you very much. A senator for coming into this because I wanted to have it in my speech, but, yes, I'm all for it. I think it's very positive and important, but it's negative that it needs to be done. I think it's totally justified and I think it can help. I think it can help overcome that disgusting movement. But it's not what I think of this particular bill. Also, I believe that a newborn is by nature the forceist that there is a very limited space for some informed discussion with the newborn. They are generally past that point. However, they are the people who might be drawn to someone who can get away from them before it is too late. In fact, it is amazing how prone people are to change their mind if they are taken into it. There are some sources of information that I could point out. A senator will if she's interested. But so I repeat, I'm all for it and I think it's very important to fight these extremes and the AFD are extremes, absolutely. But it is important that the actions are designed to work and that they reach real goals, not creating such a side problem that we accidentally catch the problem that we are trying to cut down. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u77	A respectable president. I have found it interesting to observe the discussion that has developed in the community following the contributions of this matter. I have every understanding of doubts and criticism. There's always a lot to do when we cut expression by law, and there's the proof on the lawgiver. The discussion needs to reflect all the interests involved. In my opinion, the discussion has not addressed the fundamental questions underlying, nor has the overall opinion of community interests. A fundamental factor in this discussion has simply been wrong, such as the banning of certain opinions. There's a particular expression being banned, not an opinion. This is what one hears in the general public talk. From a public discussion, you might also conclude that this is the first time that a language is presented that somehow limits expression in words or literature, in words, pictures, or in other ways. Of course not. We were here a few weeks ago accepting the legal application of digital sexual violence. It's an expression. It is punished. Is it so that we're doing this for the first time? Of course it's not like that. In our community, we often limit our expression, at times we cut it down, and in most cases, we forbid it against the penalty. We have many examples from the law that does just that. Do we weigh the constitution by punishing people sexually in words or in written messages, so that I give an example? Is freedom of expression a strike? Of course not. You see, the Holy Right to Communicate is not limitless. The expression cannot trump other sacred human rights between individuals and society. Granted, there are very insignificant examples where we are, not that the prescribed punishment is limited, to limit expression, even to a very beautiful way of thinking. Limit to e.g. the Constitution was freedom of expression when police interfere with people because of noise; when a man may be standing outside the house at night and shouting a plea of love to a woman, a very beautiful opinion? Neighbors may complain because they do not appreciate the noise. Is it because we're against love, banning expression? No, this is because the expression of this beautiful view disrupts the interests of others. Of course, this is not a punishment, so there is not a comparable example, so I'm moving it in thoroughly. I'm simply trying to prove that this is happening every day, that as a community, we have an opinion of how to express certain opinions, from making minor comments to the fact that, in most cases, we are a society of laws that impose a penalty on a certain expression. Can a company say what they want about a competitor in advertising? No, we have a law against it. I'm here to try to support the cause that this is what we do every day. There are many examples. It's like, if we go back into the criminal bitch and let these little examples go, there's more human rights and the sacred human rights of the human being than the expression, and in the normal context, these rules always play together. The principle is that the freedom that is important to all of us and that is fundamental to all of us and is holy to all of us will never go beyond drawing the line from cutting rights to another person. We limit and ban a type of expression in all kinds of contexts. At times, the response may be limited, since the matter is small. We give an interview, and then the line goes all the way down to the point that we're in a criminal bitch because the expression has become so serious, so dangerous, and maybe so pushy that it violates the basic rights of other people, and even the whole community. Then we'll use the penalty laws. We're talking about an expression that is so dangerous to people and society all that we think is not only useful but necessary to draw that line. And now this bill's coming up. I approach the matter in a way that does not forbid stupid views. My husband, the lawgiver wouldn't have anything else to do. I agree with what. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson said that we would be in trouble if that was what we were going to do. The subject is the way to deal with an expression that is dangerous. Europe is truly experienced in the fact that it is a work we should be thinking about. I can totally agree with the view that laws are not obvious to do so. It's not obvious, but it's not absurd either. If we consider today's legal structure, we include in Icelandic penalties that forbid hate speech, which is clearly and clearly the complete sister's law of this law, the same idea is behind us. I would like to go so far as to say that at discussions on this matter, we should also consider and analyze our stand on the law on hate talk. I understand that there are many doubts in this way, but I also believe that it is because of discussions in society, freedom of expression, and its value, and human rights, that are limited. Do we want our hate speech out of the way? It is a law against the expression of repugnant opinion, No. 233 which reads: ▪ Anyone who publicly ridicules, slanderers, taunts, or threatens a man or a group of people by saying or by any other form of expression... This may sound like some loophole on Facebook, here we're talking about some bad joke that's gotten into the punishment laws. Has it been tried in praxize? Is that what the law is dealing with here? No. It's always a big deal to set a penalty, and the burden of proof is always on those who want to limit expression. However, I feel that in the context of this matter, one needs to explain or review why we have a law that says it so that someone has become punished. We are not punishing bad jokes or bad opinions. This is to deal with a problem we know and acknowledge most that it is a big social ill, a racist, and all these political and dangerous discussions that I feel is a cause. Councilmen have done very well and thoroughly over, and I don't have much to add. This is because it is understood that hatred speech is a dangerous expression for certain individuals and society all, and it easily leads to violence. I would similarly, since we are in this chapter, take provisions that follow the warning of hatred. There we have a set of requirements, such as those found in the Bible. insults or insults a spouse or an ex - spouse, who spends up to two years in prison. Are we talking about insults at dinner parties? No, it is a law that deals with spiritual violence, not light food. This is a system used to deal with violence in close relationships, and the wording is in this way so that it can penetrate the boundaries of spiritual violence. Clearly, freedom of expression is not so that it can go cruelly on the rights of others. It's not like that at all. Another argument that is heard: Will this law stop the problem? It is often heard as a argument against this matter. Can this law prevent wrongdoing? No, it doesn't. No more than penalties prevent murder or sexual abuse, digital sexual abuse, the expression behind it, drunk driving. The laws are for the taking of offenses. They can never stop them. I'm not gonna spend a lot of powder on the argument, which I don't think is an article here, but I'm gonna hear from a public discussion that we don't need this. There I would ask: Do we need regulations regarding abusive speech? In Europe, there is a tendency to be a Jewish spirit, to attack by word and deed. We have in Iceland blessedly, I'd like to say, very few decisions on hatred speech, but the Council has, nevertheless, passed laws on these inconspicuous violations because we're going to deal with them when and if they come up. I don't feel that Europe has a history that we can talk as if there's no context here, and I'd like to be honest that I don't feel that it's part of a conversation here at the council Hall, but I'm here referring to an official discussion. The other arguments we hear from the condition of freedom that I have a great understanding of and sympathy for are: Are we really going to set up a list of comments that may be spoken and not? Then I'd say, "What's XXV?" Does a law of penalties other than a frame and a setting where privacy is being protected? You might call it a list, but we're pulling a line and we've done it before. The law frames up some standards, determines the boundaries, and other laws of all our legal laws do not mean that it can be said: For banning murder, and thus it will not happen. How good it would be if the lawgiver were to be able to prevent crime! I understood a word. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson so that he understands these legislation that it will not resist these offenses, but it will possibly bring them up. I think that's a point of view, but I don't think I have a basis to appreciate it. I would say, however, that I do not necessarily agree that these violations are more relevant than others, that the legislation alone is going to exaggerate something that is not already a problem. In the chapter where we defend privacy by penal law, we are making it criminal to make public declaration to another man's private affairs without a clear reason - all are points that can work very small when they are not put in context - over that we are talking about threats that are soon exposed to everyone that we have to deal with. Again, I'd like to say that the matter here for the treatment is closely related to the hate speech of the sister. The European trend is, in my mind, Jewish hostility, verbal attacks, and actions, and this is the reality behind this expression. This expression is also closely related, as the way to her, is prerogative. I really hope Iceland will become one of the northern countries not to experience the serious manifestations of this view, but I wouldn't say I'm optimistic about it. The fact that fractures are rare does not seem to me to be a reason why the Lawgiver should not feel that way. A respectable president. I understand that this subject raises questions and reactions, even severe reactions. I'd rather not be healthy if I wasn't. It's normal for us to stay, and I have a lot of understanding that people want to stay here. My argument of this matter, which I now have to admit is that I am not very optimistic about getting much progress here at the council, is that this matter simply needs to be discussed in the context and in the light of all interests, all human rights. Once we have done so, we take our stand. When this case is considered, it is in my mind that this is a form of expression, expression in words, in writing, even by pictures, which are dangerous for individuals and society, a expression expressed in a given purpose and in a particular context. Therefore, the European Court of Human Rights has agreed to a legal arrangement like this. The basis is an overall assessment of the protection of human rights, the protection of all human rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u78	A respectable president. I don't know if I'd have a question in myself, but I have comments on this and I'd love to get a reaction. That's for a senator. Hv. One senator noted that the prohibition against murder does not prevent murder. That's right. However, the prohibition against murder is not exactly used as a convincing means of promoting murder. This is done by legislation such as this one. A recent book in Icelandic, unfortunately, was published, which translates into the same terrible book - well, I do not intend to read it, interested ones can look it up. Immediately on page 14, it is used directly to emphasize the point with the book. There is a fundamental difference between this and the prohibition against violations of privacy. If we are under ban against sharing other people's journals, or something like them, somebody doesn't write a book and put it in people's personal affairs and say, "Look, it's okay because it's forbidden. But this is when it comes to eutrophication, and this is part of it. I have respect for it as long as I have. A senator said, that she may not have a basis to appreciate how strong this was. I know it may not be fair for me to say something like this without having evidence to show off. Senator. But I'll look at these files. I'll read this speech. I'm going into the debate with these idiots, and that's why I feel that way. I hear what they say for themselves and how convincing themselves are, no matter what they use themselves to lure replacements into them. That's even. I'm afraid there's such legislation as this. But as I say, I have no question at all, I just wanted to get this to us why. A senator. I may not insist, but give what. A senator has the opportunity to express his opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u79	A respectable president. In itself, I had considered those views. I don't think that I have the privilege of evaluating the effect on cooling or expositing laws. Here again, I would want to confirm that I feel that it cannot apply on its own as an argument against violations that we know to take place. Lawgivers need to be able to grasp it when such dangerous speech produces consequences. As I say, I don't have the evidence, I don't think they're now accessible. However, it should not be noted that even if there is in some situation that a ban has exposéed a particular group of people, it is the response of all humans to such regulations. I think we're always making a law like this because there's an opinion. There's an expression. The expression of this dangerous view is at hand, and that is why we are responding to it. So I think it's a matter of beginning and ending, which comes first. I'm going to let myself question it a lot, and I know that why. A senator does not claim that the law makes up this dangerous social ill. I think he speaks in this way, as you can hear, that the average is more dangerous than the disease, by law like this. I understand that. But I would like to ask: Is the same true of our law dealing with a hate speech? Does the senator support regulations, such as the hate speech that is already in the penal code?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u80	A respectable president. I didn't mean to come back again, but first I did. A senator then asked me to use the opportunity, perhaps saving a talk afterward too. But I'm all for it as a hate speech code. On the other hand, I believe the law, which is now in public penalties, is defective. When it was changed to the last terms, I don't remember exactly which year, I was kind of critical of the change, some of which were found. I don't have time to go through everything I have to look at, but I think it's very important that hatred speech is elegant and good. I don't think it's in Icelandic law. I'd be interested to change it and improve it, but I believe she should be there. Because I'm here later, I don't answer questions. I don't expect her to answer, but I don't expect her to answer. A senator if she chooses to use it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u81	A respectable president. I'm here to thank you. The senator's answer. It is a pleasure to hear that he supports our hatred of speech, even though I know that it is a firm support for freedom of expression. Of course, we might approach it in a way that could indicate that the hate speech could take many of the things we are talking about here. But that may also be true of many of the laws that are such as. in a sex phase. But we give certain offenses the honor we have to let them name what they really are. I can fully agree that there can be a question mark to the expression in the hate speech, but I sincerely believe that there should be a question. And there are judgments where there has been a trial that shows that it was needed. As I have said here before, I believe that the matter we have here to treat is a sister's law.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u82	Mr. President. Thank you. Transporter Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynflfsdóttir for measuring for this bill of changing penalties and banning the death penalty. This material is truly relevant to our society today, although it may be considered matters of opinion. Someone. I'd like to bring it up here to the point. A senator also recommended a judicial arrangement on autumn days for the victims of the Holocaust, which has actually become an international memorial, established by the United Nations in 2005, i.e. January 27th. On that day in 1945, Auschwitz was freed by the Soviet Army. I have the privilege of being both a cohesive on this bill and on this synopsis proposal, and I like it very much. Does that mean "whisper"? For example, when it comes to pastism, when it comes to looking back, to some kind of pastism, to nothing, to be out of harmony with modern times, is it constant? On the contrary, Mr. President. This testifies to a rich sense of community, knowledge, and understanding that history has many dark aspects. At any given time, there seems to be the sceptres of extreme forces that find some soil and if we do not stay awake, respond not, we may be inferior; that we do not learn from this tragic past experience. Of course, a paper with the bill reveals the point. A new article is being proposed to be added to the 1940 general penalties for refusing the genocide of German Nazis. That period was heartbreaking. The total number of people killed by systematic persecution during the war years is 17 million. Other groups of people were also persecuted and murdered by Nazis. There is a problem, such as a beard. A traveler came in, the various Slavic nations, Jews, Romans, disabled, homosexuals, and many other groups. The period that will be considered part of mankind's modern - day history is still like a bruise on the nations of the world, like a black cloud, and so it will remain. Someone may ask: " What does this have to do with us? Is this not a long time ago, and did it not happen in foreign lands, far from our culture, our outlook, and our outlook? Mr. President. This is crazy. You see, this is very close. Many of us even personally know individuals or their descendants who were destined to endure saving in Nazi Germany. It's moving all of us. Over 3,200 Norwegians were e.g. Sends to the Sachsenhausen camp near north of Berlin, and 200 of them died there. Many people also know the history of Leifur H. Müller, who probably suffered some of the most horrible imprisonments ever suffered by some of the Icelanders, first at Grinis Prison in Norway and later in the former and notorious Sachsenhausen concentration camp in Germany, sometimes called a labor camp. There was a day of fighting for life and death under Nazi iron. Hunger, sickness, torture, and death were commonplace. Leifur wrote a book about this terrible period of his life right after his return to Iceland at the end of the war. The book is in a Nazi concentration camp, published in September 1945. Wiesenthal Institute reports this as a unique book and one of the first books written in the world on the Holocaust. This was overwhelming for a German nation long after years, and there are not many decades since Germany could start discussing it openly and accept it, e.g. in the school system. To legalize a significant amount of weight, as suggested here, should make it easier for us to see the history of human rights in a larger and clearer context. That's what we're supposed to do. This painful story should help us to think about and think about the precious rights of various minorities that have become reality, continue, relatively fast despite all, and how precious these rights are. We should guard them constantly, building a armored city for these rights, since they are not self - determinations. It's like an example of true futility. We know this and do not have to look far beyond our bounds in order to witness the way these rights are abused and abused in many cases. There is no need to go far, and unfortunately, today's reality is far too many parts of the world. Furthermore, the Holocaust serves as a reminder of how quickly dangerous ideas can have tragic consequences if they fail to cope. So do we. This reminder is especially relevant for us today, in which familiar hatreds and political ideologies have spread. Sadly, it seems to have some sound foundation and tragedy to know that Iceland and I do not have such opinions. We also know from the Icelandic community of voices that even deny the tragic events that actually occurred with the Holocaust, but it is not just the work of the politicians but the whole community to reject such ideologies based on denial of the events that actually took place. That is why this bill is time for our society, that we are constantly on guard and not forget cruelty, and that we constantly remember how blind hatred can go. Let us be mindful of these things and constantly so that the calamities we have experienced in history will never be able to repeat itself again.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u83	A respectable president. I come up here a second time because I owe you. 3.m. We're out of Suðvest. answers I answered earlier in reply. Hv. A senator asked if I was in favor of a hate speech law and, as I mentioned, in answer to a second speech. I am a senator, though I count the present ordinances to be defective. I only have five minutes to talk about this, and I need a lot more than that to review it materially, but I can refer to a discussion about the law as it was given at the time, during the last term. Hv. A senator also asked what should be done if not this. There's not a simple answer to that, but I have to say, we have to build a community that can be trusted to believe in the Holocaust. We just have to trust people to believe that the earth is round. In my opinion, empty talk is that democracy is different from that fundamental requirement, rather obvious and self - determination, but with that in advance, as I went over in my speech earlier, that people are in their nature very poor to distinguish between what is true and false, I, and all of us. Then I'd also like to stress that the limits of freedom of expression can be completely justified, as I say every time I discuss this. There's always reasoning with someone I don't know who's fighting for absolute freedom of expression with no limit. It's just that it's been a long time since I heard it look like that and I've never heard it here in a Senate hall. But I also want to review it as a matter of course. paritaprevir The Þorbjörg of Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir spoke of when she reviewed what is right, that there is no new word that we limit some expression we consider proper. I completely understand that this is a sister's law that is already present in public penalties, regulations that I would like to set and do better. But there's a weak argument in the Icelandic context because the Icelanders have long banned things of the most incredible nature, not just things as serious as the Holocaust. It is forbidden today to sing the national anthem wrong, a respectable president. It's just against the law in Iceland. There's a prison sentence against that. So we are out driving when it comes to the freedom of expression in general, even if this bill may be reasonable and justified. Pornography is still banned in Iceland. As far as I know, we are the only liberal democracy where it is still forbidden. I understand it, such as, tabby the subject, and there have not been much reasons to deal with it for some serious reason, though I now suspect that it is reduced because it is produced pornography in Iceland, and if the law is to be carried out, we will have to deal with that discussion and it will not end up holding on the ban, no more than anywhere else in my opinion. But that's enough. Violence films were banned in Iceland, actually censored until this century, until 2003 or 2006, reminds me, when the ban was replaced by new laws received by the old ones, and it is the same prince there. We need to trust people to watch Fight Club and Natural Born Killers without turning into murderers. It's a shallow standard we have to have against the civilian population. It's shallow. If our education system doesn't make it that way, then we need to fix it. If our message of being shallow is not clear enough, we need to send it a message and say it pretty loud. But we do not, because throughout history, Icelanders have never been particularly fond of freedom of expression. They put up with it correctly, so if they succeed in convincing themselves that it meets legal requirements. For 2015, Gudmis was banned in Iceland. It was forbidden to insult the religious convictions of the people, and they were issued by a universal rule. I'd like to remind you there's evidence to forbid blasphemy, but they're just really bad all of them. I wanted to mention this because when we get involved in justifying the limits of freedom of expression on the grounds that we will either do so or that we will have legislation, we have examples that we have in the current law, are quite clear. But saying that none of these things in themselves are about as serious as the Holocaust. I'll figure it out. But it doesn't change the fact that the logic support has to go on, and this argument doesn't make sense to me. Then I'm not going to have this further, because I have no more time, more honorary president. But I appreciate the discussion, and thank you very much. A senator for presenting a bill that will cause us to discuss this rise in Fascisman because it is a serious problem that we have discussed much more and in much more context and certainly despite living in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u84	Madam President. I'd like to use a few minutes to thank you for the discussion that's been around the bill to correct the change to general penal law, it's illegal to say no to the death penalty. There have been many interesting points here to show that the European Court of Human Rights has in its judgment examples demonstrated its agreement for legalization, as this case has to do. I'd also like to say the same thing with a bang. paritaprevir The village of Þorbjörg Sigríður, the Gunnlaugsdóttir of Guindar, reminded of the sister's law of punishment for a hate speech. I am convinced that this bill here is of the good and will cause us, as the legislature authority, to give clear impressions about the rise of Fascism, the rise of hate speech that has truly taken place in Europe. I would like to point out that between 2018 and 2018, we saw a 74% increase in violence based on hatred speech against Jews in France and, in the same period, 2018 and 2018, a 60% increase in hate crimes toward Jews in Germany, the last of which was a fierce hatred talk toward Jews, and the denial of the dead is part of it. I also want to thank you for your speech. paritaprevir Brjánsson. I simply forgot to mention this story in my speech to link this story to our own story and to remind us of Leifur Müller' memory of the great man who has suffered a disaster that none of us want to experience, while linking this tragic story to Icelandic society. It is also true in this case. Councilmen, that this bill is not about the past, it is about learning from the past and preventing some of the mistakes of the past, shocking failures, from repeating itself. But it is also so, as noted in the articles, that it is dangerous ideologies. It can quickly and cause crimes that are deadly, damaging democracy and damaging society. And sad to say, we have seen these developments both in Europe and in the United States. I believe that as an Icelandic community, we need to be on our guard and prevent similar hatred speech and crime from taking place in this country, since there is a real danger. Likewise because we are a nation among nations and we are part of an international society and, unfortunately, are part of the trend that has taken place, even though we certainly hope for the best in those things.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u85	A respectable president. I propose a proposal for a resolution on digital development policies. The movers, along with the one present, are members of the House of forwards, the Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson, the Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, and Willum Þór Thor Þórsson. The suggestion is as follows: ▪ The General concluded to assign prime minister to appoint groups who are assigned to shape a comprehensive digital policy using a five - year - old operation plan. Your objective will be: a. to shape the future of digital development in Iceland and the implementation tools for promoting digital development within enterprises, focusing on SMEs, promoting digital skills in labour markets, promoting digital development in research, innovation and pioneering and promoting digital abilities at all levels, and including the process of job and re-education, b. to highlight the Internet security issues, data availability and use of data, relevant laws and management directives, whether or not the public, digital governance, digital infrastructure, artificial intelligence, digital Icelandic in the digital world, how to better address the opportunities of digital evolution and how to minimize the negative consequences of digital evolution. Prime Minister will submit a report to the General Assembly with results of a staff group at the end of May 2021.◯ - Which may be a pretty short time, chief. Mr. President, given the scope of the project. But here's what it says: The use of the world tissue and the digital technology of the fourth industrial revolution change the world. It has a broad impact on today's economy and becomes more important to communities. This development is inevitable, and mankind is beneficial, and it can produce something of immense value. Such developments take on great opportunities and dangers, so it is of utmost importance that we prepare for them. This danger may come to the realization that digital development divides the population into two groups, i.e. in those who have the knowledge and ability to use digital technology and those who are unable to do so. Globally, the value of valuable things and the benefits of digital technology are high. So when a race is started as a nation, rural society, business, and individuals must participate, they will be competitive and secure quality of life. Although we have strong infrastructure and force in digital administrations, results are very effective, international analysis and research indicate that in many ways Iceland is not affected by digital evolution, especially when considering our principal comparative positions, which are actually very early on a global scale, so we may be in a very difficult comparison. This is especially true when it comes to employment, employment markets, and digital abilities of the common people. Icelandic companies and the public are not sufficiently aware and prepared for the changes brought on by the fourth industrial revolution. The general public is primarily responsible for the digital technology of consumers. It is necessary to improve the technical and information level and to promote initiatives in the use of digital technology for development and creation. If so, our position will reduce the competitiveness of the entire country and the commercial situation. A lack of digital ability can easily cause social inequities. Other North countries are far beyond Iceland when digital transformation comes, but the countries always have a high priority on all comparisons, as mentioned earlier. Iceland has an opportunity to look at their experience, e.g. in the Norwegian partnership. Already, cooperation in various areas has become evident, as Council of the Management Board of the North, on the North countries as the most sustainable and integrated region in the world, and the Minister's Declaration Digital North 2.0. In other parts of the North, a total of digital policy has also been achieved, which Iceland can look for. In particular, Dana, Norwegian, and Sweden's policies are identified, but in Finland such issues are actually linked with other policy measures. At work, the experience of the northern countries and other smaller countries could be considered as being the longest development of digital policies, such as the Netherlands and Ireland. These nations first set out a course many years ago and are even up - to - date, so we are behind. But as I say, we have a golden chance to be our neighbour, especially the North, and we should seize that opportunity in my opinion. Digital development and development towards increased sustainability are the most extensive changes in Icelandic society. Good use of digital technology can include increased production, incentive for innovation, improved services, simplified participation in society, creating jobs, improving quality of life, increasing survival, and having a positive effect on economic growth. Increasing skill and knowledge of digital technology thus results in a broad variety of benefits. The efficiency of digital technology can increase economic competitiveness and play a key role in the environment and play a key role in the progress of the global objectives of the United Nations, which Iceland has committed to work. The efficiency of digital technology is also thought to be one of the best ways to get the world's economic system out of the crisis that the Korean epidemic has caused. The government recognizes the importance of responding to the challenges of the fourth industrial revolution and of taking advantage of its opportunities. This may include: • providing information on the report of the Ministry of Presidency on the fourth industrial revolution and its secondary action plan, the Neo-creation policy, the Science and Technology Policy of 2020-022, but no less in the government's declaration of policy. to stress the importance of Iceland's preparing to meet the challenges and to take advantage of opportunities of ever - increasing technology change. Despite the fact that governments are aware of the importance of the issue and of much and good work, there have already been a number of areas, such as electronic management, grammatical policy, digital technology, the key role of digital technology, artificial intelligence policies, and the proposals that measures related to the fourth industrial revolution must be considered complete on digital development and the necessary abilities, Iceland should maintain its competitiveness and quality of life. Clearly, digital evolution affects the entire community, and nothing has anything to do with it. Therefore, it is necessary to ensure that the perspective and coordination of all main organisations in order to achieve the full efficiency, ensure full knowledge transfer, prevent double-work, and ensure that nothing is forgotten in this important work. Today, for example, it's missing. a high degree of clear policy and support measures for an enterprise's digital transformation, increased digital skills in the labour market, and the development of digital skills are implemented clearly and systematically in educational and educational policies. However, all of this can be clearly seen in many of the policies and actions of the countries that we best compare with, such as the Northern countries, the Netherlands, and Ireland, as noted earlier. In order to promote digital knowledge and skills and thus increase the opportunities for the use of digital technology in Icelandic and modern - day living. Otherwise, Iceland may be reduced again by key comparative countries in terms of digital evolution, international competition, and so the general public will live in a lower quality of life. This will be best done by the intensive cooperation of all the professionals, across the industry, both in the public and in the private sector. Transporters stress the importance of developing progressively that cooperation and policy development in the region of digital development can ensure continued competitiveness and quality of life.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u86	President. I recommend a change of the 69th grade. Social security songs to be said: social security, as well as pay Sixty-three. and sums of money. 22nd g., shall be recalculated and adjusted for the first of July every year. Iceland's Office calculates and shows a 1st June relative change in the average annual pay of the state for the next calendar year. As a result of reviewing pay change, the Habitat should provide information and information that it considers necessary, as well as carry out its own research as necessary. Prior to July, the government's insurance agency updates the Cabinet budget to match the Haust Room figures. The crowning increases in the collective agreements of public employees should be reflected in the crowning increases in terms of social security benefits, the payment by Sixty-three. and sums of money. 22rd over, and then we're on our way to the left. Standards in agreement with current 69 C.E. Law on Social Security was first introduced into law in 1997. Since then, improvements in the provision have not been increased according to the ratings of consumer prices or salary. The increase required in the provision is included in the budget of each year, based on the calculation of the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs for the coming years. In fact, that calculation has rarely been successful. The table in the bill shows the development from 1997. In the opinion of the Generalist on the case of No. 9818/2018 according to instructions 69.g. If evaluable, but according to the procedure, increase in improvement should take into account the development of the salary. The Ministry of Economics has noted that the wording of the law does not refer to a specific index, such as a pay sheet, and that by the prehistoric history of the provision of the law, when the law was changed to the current standard, to support increases in such criteria. In the table, based on the pay number, the only criteria that can be used as an indication of each of the cost developments (in reality) were found. The data are therefore presented in a manner that actually means that the pay number of people will pay for it. However, if only an index price is developed, improvements in social security law have increased beyond inflation by less than 39% since 1997. The pay sheet overrated remuneration, e.g. Because of changes in work, as shown by the Ministry of Premiers on pay statistics in Iceland. However, it compares pay development to a pay number, e.g. in a report followed by collective contracts of the labour market. It states: The social status of unions within ASI is closely compatible with the development of a pay sheet, since this group weighs heavily on the index. Also: November 2006 to the same length of 2015, local social union pay increased by 68.5% and by 76.3%, respectively. A comparison with the development of a remuneration point shows that the pay of the BSRB partners in the state has been held with a pay card number during the crucial period, while the members of the rural community have declined. In view of this, the overevaluation in the remuneration number does not appear to be too much to make this index of interest to assess the actual level of employment development. Furthermore, the report of the overall workforce is showing the improvement of social security and labour market pay. Although the improvement in social security has increased beyond the index of consumer prices, this increase is much less since 1997 than the increase in labour markets in 2006-2015. When the law of counsel was changed in 2019, a new arrangement was adopted to calculate the salary of members of Congress and other officials who do not have a strike rights. There Iceland's Habitat was assigned to calculate the relative change in the average average pay of the staff of the state for the next calendar year. This resulted in a 6.3% increase in the salary of the Parliament at the beginning of 2020, while the calculated improvement in social security, which was to take into account, was about 3.6%. The problem, therefore, seems to be how the Ministry of Economics calculates future pay development on a budget bill every year. Each year, the words of ◯skala turn to 69 C.E. Law on social security appears to be interpreted as not to calculate this increase more than once a year. In addition, it seems that no one has taken into account the law's command to improve social security will ever be less than the price of an index price to be taken into account. For example, over 2004-2006, 2008 and 20103/42011, the improvement in social security was lower than inflation of the year. As noted above, the overall rate of these years of social security improvement was still higher than the increase in index price. In general, it would be advisable to use this new method of reimbursement for the public for all classes that do not have the right to strike. In this bill, however, the change is limited to the improvements in social security. This is a wording found in the law on how the pay of senators and ministers is calculated. Since social security benefits are indeed public, it would be only natural for the same laws to be there in both places. Since we have a valid law with this text - I added that a centennial raise in the government labour agreements should be reflected in the financial promotions for social security, that's an additional and should in fact add it to the Council's pay and Minister - it should be relatively easy to update him for social security laws. I hope the committee will quickly look at this subject and indeed change it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u87	President. I recommend a change in the terms of Congress, but this adds up to the following: According to 2 mgr, the usual schedule should be once a month. 10. g., allow up to ten citizens to address a meeting on current issues. Every address can't last more than five minutes. The citizens shall be randomly selected from the stock market of the Iceland National Publications Index. The Presidency Committee establishes further regulations on the construction of the project. The bill was previously submitted to a 149th legislature and is now forward slightly modified and with an up - to - date report covering the details of the stories received when the bill was submitted last. This bill suggests a change in the International Parliamentary Act, with the objective of allowing citizens of general cities to attend a meeting once a month at the time of Congress. It is suggested that as many as ten random citizens will be authorized to address a recent meeting on matters and that each address may not last longer than five minutes. The selection of citizens, the timing of speech, the implementation of the law, and other matters by the Presidency Committee should be discussed in more detail. In the North, there is no precedent for the public speaking in a Senate hall. According to the Norwegian and Danish Parliamentary Act, only members of Congress and Ministers can enter the chamber. It should be noted that in Denmark citizens can propose a judicial hearing. If the proposals receive 50,000 signatures, it may be submitted to the council as a synonym for specific criteria met and treated by the council. By the 50th. The Finnish Parliamentary Act enrolled members of Parliament on the rosary. However, the president of the council may decide to give the minister, the legal guardian of the government, and the senator's emissary before others are granted permission to speak up. In the 15th. The Swedish Parliamentary Act guarantees that all members of Congress and ministers may comment on all issues discussed at a meeting, with the exception of the law. If the president did not instruct the president to stick to the subject, as mentioned in paragraph 16, he may not be allowed to comment. The law. There is no provision for the involvement of citizens at a meeting in the General Assembly. Suggested suggestions on how to increase the impact of citizens on the work of the council have been made. For example, in the proposals of the Council of Government and the bill, a greater part of the Commission and the Commission's Commission to the constitution on the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland, there was an arrangement on the matter of Congress for the voters' initiative, as stated in Article 66. The bill, or the so-called national principle. This bill does not suggest a possibility that voters can present a matter of Congress. Rather, it is simply that they can address a meeting. An example is that if a special decision is made by a prime committee, who are not members of Congress, ministers, and presidents of Iceland will be held at a hearing, not being part of a Senate hearing, under the Constitution, the General Assembly, or the Congress's Convention. An example of this is the address of the president of the Danish Congress at the General Assembly meeting on the United States Hall on July 18, 2018. The bill suggests that citizens should be randomly selected from the market stocks set out by the National Book of Iceland. If this bill is to be legalized, the need to consider that further implementation, such as any role of members of the Parliament, the management of the choice of citizens and the implementation of them, and the implementation of the procedure will be in accordance with the laws on personal protection and the processing of personal information. In addition, it is important to consider whether a new stock will need to be published monthly or to produce an elected file strain compared to a given date each year that could be available for use throughout the year, or whether to select citizens from the last published market stock, i.e. which was released for the last election. It should then be considered to ensure that certain viewpoints, such as gender and geographic considerations, are selected by citizens and even used for the so-called random selection. At the same time, it is important to consider that traveling costs for equality and that the cost of this action will not be an obstacle to participation. For civilian selection procedures, e.g. can be considered on the basis of the selection of participants for the 2010 National Conference that discussed Iceland's Constitution and the criteria that were proposed. Transporters believe that it is sufficient that the Presidency Committee will agree on the above rules as well as consult with Iceland's National Publications Index for the implementation of markets when choosing citizens to address the General Assembly. It is estimated that the changes proposed in the bill will strengthen the democratic activity of the council and increase the viewpoints expressed in the Assembly Hall. The review of a century, a society of sustainability and democracy, considers in detail the subject of the bill. It focuses mainly on two lines of evidence for the change in democratic activity of the Generals and on promoting the involvement of the public in politics in general. That, in fact, is what the Bible The basis for it can be said that the main benefit of the bill is that, as participants are randomized to a total of every year, at these special meetings, 70 to 80 views of non-profit persons. These would address a world of Congress, which citizens would not represent as political parties and share with him their experience and opinions. The review points out that the main problem with this idea is to promote the democratic activity of the Alliedis, if understood as an attempt to create a closer link between the members of Congress and the voters, it may be possible to think of more and more powerful ways to do so. Transporters agree with this comment, but they note that one thing does not rule out another, as stated in the subheading of a Alda. According to the review, the main limitations of these democracies are how few would be randomized. Transporters also agree with that view. The proposal is intended to be merely one of the reforms of a democracies program that, along with others, could have a significant impact on political discussions in Iceland. The review also makes a comment on how short a talk is given. Transporters agree with that view, so the bill has been changed from the previous level and the time of maximum speech has increased from two minutes to five minutes. It is then that the movers take to heart the views expressed in the review of a random civil council and a group of arguments designed to promote the democratic process of the legislative administration and to make it more diverse. Finally, a change in the bill has been made since it was submitted to the 149th legislation of legislatures in accordance with proposals presented in the National Book of Iceland. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland, the General Assembly is a representative of the nation, which includes the exclusive presence of the National Committee. The constitution. There is one exception from this principle in Article 51. The Constitution says the Ministers have their position of office at the General Assembly. They have the right to participate in the discussions as often as they want, but they have to be regular. Their right, though, is for them only to be members of the general body. In the 38th. The Constitution says that the right to bring the bills to law and motions to the conclusion has general council members and ministers. That's 55. The Constitution states that unless a member of the Parliament or a member of the Parliament performs any matter, the General shall take it. As noted earlier, the president of the dance council addressed a meeting at the General Assembly on July 18, 2018. This suggests that the council can decide that non - elected representatives and ministers can give a speech at a meeting. Transporters believe that with the approval of the bill, the General Assembly will be in charge of democracies and political involvement.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u88	A respectable president. I present a bill to legalize the removal of the law of Christian funds, etc., with subsequent changes. In fact, this includes disposing of laws in that law, Deuteronomy. Ph., which is as follows, by permission of the president: It is mandatory to set up free property under churches and to keep them free from the street tax. Now a priest is obliged to have a shop or a shopaholic and is obliged to set up a free property under his apartment house in case of an authorized priest's residence. The matter was first raised to Council 145, first of all. and also the ones that stand here, and then were reassigned to Council 148, 149, and 150th, and as we all know, it's a 151, and it's submitted again. In effect, the bill never turned to anything other than to eliminate this temporary miscalculation, i.e. Section 5. ... inthelaw. But recently, in particular last year, the law was set up and removed from II. The chapter of the law, which means that most of this law has been ignored but 5. It's the only thing left in the law today. And since that article is left alone in the law this time, it is suggested that the entire law be removed, thereby helping us to have a little less in the library, which may be the most confusing, at least People like me. The reason why the matter is stated is that at one time there was a lot of talk in Iceland over the Portuguese construction, but mosk is the house of prayer or the house of worship of Muslims, and in itself it can be anywhere and really anything. I remember that the first Moska was in the open air, so it does not depend on this law or legislation in itself whether there is a mosk in Iceland. Of course, it happened to people who do not tolerate Muslims because people in general do not know anything about Islam, their history, or their religious history of Islam. Well, that's another story. But the debate became very harsh and became very opposed to the democratic values, I would say. Then, for example, it was. The request to keep a national law on whether this mosque could be built or not. It was a preposterous idea, a totally absurd idea, of going to pay a national bill to see if any religion could enjoy religious freedom and equal rights for law or law, a totally crazy recommendation, a respectable president. Sequence to law is part of democracy. Freedom of speech is part of democracy. There are certain things that cannot be eliminated by democratic means. That's a contradiction. One of the questions then raised was the question of 5th paragraph. law on Christian funds made it necessary for Reykjavíkurburg to appoint the member who wanted to build the mosque, and when it comes to dividing secular possessions on the part of the State, it is quite natural that all such things are controversial. But there was a debate about whether the Muslim was to be left behind when the worst was. Some others would deny that the law was only about the State Church, of course, based on the fact that we still have a national church here in 2021. The discussion always ended at the same point: Will we have equal terms in Iceland or not? To me, there's no question about that. Of course, we have equal issues for the law, a respectable president. Today, Reykjavíkurburg may have interpreted this position or had responded by interpreting it. I understand that it was not in itself a legal interpretation but an independent decision at Reykjavíkurburg, which is not of concern. However, the main point is that Reykjavíkurburg viewed it as at least a proper law to use an equal rule to assign free property to any religious and biological partner who would ask for it. If there's such a law over a head, a respectable president, I find it a very reasonable rule. I find it pointless to give one particular religion special privileges over all the others, just for being the biggest, shortest, strongest, and overwhelming of the richest religion. I think it's a natural crazy thing. The bill's report, which I'm not going to read all, shows more than that, but I can only complain about the contradictions discussed in the Council of the Republic of Iceland. It's between 62 degrees. and 65th But 62 st. is the People's Code. In fact, it is permitted, and the State's duty is to support specifically the Evangelical Lutheran Church, see the National Church. 65. g. However, the Constitution deals with equality for law, regardless of how much law there is. religious beliefs. I find this an unacceptable situation, a respectable president, and I think we should change it. Whatever we can change, even if the State's authority is forced to support the State church in some way as long as 62 C.E. If we are a people in the constitution, we can at least remove from the law what must be considered a child of its time, like this law. It can be concluded that at some point this law was reasonable in the light of the uniform religious practices of the people of the land. Maybe. Actually, I don't think so, but I would understand that view. No matter what the case, I feel completely at odds that this is not appropriate in the law anymore, especially when legislation such as this has become quite a spark for a debate against a religious memory group based on the State's giving them something legal for the National Church. It's very unfortunate to say the least. I don't think that there is a purpose of law, or just justified by law making up some religious anymore. A respectable president. Thus, history shows this very clearly when severe human rights violations have been committed throughout history. When communities go mad and take out minorities of any rights, it is only very common for religious convictions to play a key role there. It's not absolute, but it's very common. Today, we enjoy that danger. We enjoy speaking to Muslims who are not all right and sometimes outright hate propaganda, and that is not what I say is a genuine fan of religion. I don't necessarily feel that there have been some material discussion about certain religious teachings here, but I'm content to say that I'm not a fan of their religion and that I could argue in the night with Muslims about theological consequences of what we might say. of the Koran. But it does not change that Muslims, such as other religious groups in Iceland, should enjoy exactly the same rights as others and, of course, have the same responsibilities. I think it's pretty obvious. I must say that I find it strange how many in Iceland are quick to insist that religious groups share the same obligations as others, but they are somehow not as quick to demand the same freedom and the same equality for the same religious minorities. A respectable president. Of course, it is true that one of the main roles of the State over its head is to ensure equality from law and protect minority groups from the efforts of the greater part. The strange thing here is that the Church has not a very special privilege to defend it but because it is in more parts, overwhelmingly, in fact. There is no perplexing reason to have a national church. Without going deeper or further beyond the subject of the bill, I will simply refer to the report and previous discussions that have been presented on this fine subject. I hope this time the case goes through, even though you learn to hope carefully here at the Council, wishing that the case would be referred to why. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u89	A respectable president. This is another very simple change. At 2nd. Ninety-five hundred and forty-seven. the content of part enterprises is added to a new case, as follows: There should be no payment for electronic checkup in the file, and all information should be displayed in an electronic lookup. The bill was previously submitted to the 150th legislature, 149. The bill suggests that partner files will be more accessible to the public. It is suggested that there should be no charge for electronic checkup and that the same information should be available there and if you pay for a copy of it. This information cannot be considered accessible to the public in relation to existing legislation where it needs to be paid. The standard of law was comparable to that of increasing access to a corporate file was adopted at the National Congress of 146th and became the law of No. 64/2017. The law of making it possible for the public to have access to an enterprise file without charge. This is a suggestion that data related to those contained in an enterprise file will be produced in the same way. The song that's at the highest. Travel ministers, industry, and innovation have provided a annual accounting list that is comparable to this. So, when the case is closed, this Trinity, company file, annual accounts, and partner files, which contain information about companies and their activities and are available only against payment. This has caused problems and costs, especially for the media, who are trying to figure out what business relationships are. Based on the way many Icelandic companies have been put together through all sorts of real estates back and forth, it has had to be very extensive. The news transfer simply costs too much money compared to the media funds and any public who can take advantage of this to be curious, but also to decide which person would like to do business. If we're looking for a business to do business with, we'd rather not do business with someone who is, for example, a business. with a history of social security. Transparency is a key element of this, e.g. disable the identification count. Therefore, I hope that the last part of this Trinity will be completed, and we will be living in a much better situation in the years to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u90	A respectable president. I recommend here a bill to correct alcohol change, No. 75/1998. Other transporters other than the one standing here are why. The members of Bjöln the Leví of Gunnarsson, Jón Þór Ólafsson, Elísa Þórðardóttir, the daughter of Thordur, Smári Mccarthy, Thorldur Ævarsdóttir the daughter of Avvar, Hanna Katrín the Friðriksson of Frildur, Kolbeinn Otcarsson Proppé, Logi K., and Þorgerður Gunnarsdóttir. This bill is the personal right to what Icelanders can carve when it comes to the drinking and production arrangement. This bill is authorized to engage in so - called home brewing, but many citizens of this country may not know that it is forbidden. As explained in the report, the reason why this is not in itself the fact that the person present here is interested in homekeeping, in fact, in no one and never had, and probably will never have, but there are many other people in the community who have a keen interest in homemaking and who practice such occupations of a law that covers up to six years of imprisonment for such violations. Obviously, these laws are not carried out by any apparent harshness, as many people do not even know that they are forbidden. Also, in recent years, perhaps in the past decade, there has been a lot of Icelandic beer production, a lot of Icelandic beer, just as tourists are interested in it. So it is a little blow that the essentials for the development of the Icelandic beer industry bloom and that the people who learn to make this beer first break a law with a rather heavy penalty frame. So the danger is that if some authority is in a bad mood and starts to enforce these laws violently, there are quite a lot of people, just honest citizens who are involved in promoting a career, the economy, and the travel and Icelandic culture, suddenly in a very uncomfortable legal position. And just to stress how unconscious society seems to be about this being forbidden above the head is a union, an elegant society, a society of amateurs about fermentation. This society operates openly. This is shown in the media. It's gonna hold a race. They've held a contest or a show, they don't remember whether it was in K Lambunni or anywhere else, and there the media came and interviewed the front people. No attempt was made to hide this, and this was not kept in protest to the law. They were just people taking advantage of their freedom to do what they loved to do. This same organization has established the General Assembly meeting under that name to discuss, for example, a bill. alcohol's system, which is, of course, now and then into a church hall, is allegorized and is in no way trying to hide one's activities or interests from one of the world's own. This conflict between strict legislation, while the reality of liberality creates a state of mind with a secular authority that is not good, is not healthy in a democracies community. Now I can only pea on the Independence Party, who continues to gast about freedom of every campaign. He can be assured that he is certainly free of business, even if something is now fraught with capitalism when it comes to the peddler system for some reason. But when it comes to individual freedom, I felt very weak. The issue is often about whether or not to sell or do business or if something should be taxed and how much it is taxed. But here we are talking about the individual's freedom to do something that concerns that person himself; people brewing at home, not to hand over to others, no matter how many underage people, not even to sell it, not even to breathe it - more after a moment - but to make their own lives completely after their own heads, without bothering one or anyone with that one working together, at least. It is also widely known how alcohol can affect one's behavior patterns and personality. But freedom of persons is something I think we should put more focus on here at the Council rather than on our freedom of business. I believe it is in Iceland that there has never in itself been any insane interest in individual freedoms in Iceland. The freedoms of an individual in Iceland seem to me to be mostly focused on living far from other people and controlling themselves, but not so that the rules themselves are particularly progressive. There is not much interest in that in Iceland in general. But this is what Pirantar and I want to change. We focus on individual freedoms when we talk about freedom, not just about freedom of business or taxation or whatever independence is meant when it speaks of freedom. I can't help but mention this because Piratar and I often get some pills from some kind of rage. The members of the Independence Party for being so left-minded and so controlling because we are so left-handed. The evidence, however, does not indicate that, more dignified president. Pirats have been fighting to stop punishing drug addicts. It was the Pirats who gave up punishment for blasphemy. Piratars are the people who contribute this matter, and Piratars are the focus of individual freedom here at the council, as far as I can see. Although we are not alone, I feel that it is important to maintain the kind of freedom that people are talking about when we're going into a campaign and we're going to beat ourselves to the bone for being such presumptuous lovers of freedom. At this I will leave my speech lesson and suggest that this matter be fulfilled. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-04-64.u91	Madam President. I hereby recommend a hearing on how to save children by the government in private homes. Artists with me on this suggestion are why. The members of Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Izzz, Árnadóttir Kolbrönnadótttir, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Resak Brynjólfsdóttir Bjornólfóttir, and Þorsteinn Sæmundsson. This suggests that in consultation with the Minister of Justice, the General concluded that it would be necessary to consider whether there will be a reason to examine the protection of children on the part of the government in private homes and whether or not such a survey will be limited. If this proposal is adopted, it is assumed that the Minister would introduce the results to the General of the survey at the end of May 2021, i.e. In spring. Madam President. In the past, it was customary for so - called virgin or unkempt youths to be sent to the countryside. Such a stay was thought to strengthen and strengthen them and make them humans, as was often said at the time. Hence, it was not often considered a matter of choice, though the government sent or planned to send children who may have been more difficult than many other children to an institution or to a government home. No one was particularly concerned about the circumstances in which the children lived, what happened in those homes, and what happened there during the stay of these young ones. Madam President. On February 2, 2007, we were awakened to a bad dream when a discussion was made about the residence in Breiðavík at Kastlight Show on TV. The home was run by the government as a child protection subsidiary from 1952 to 1979. The program called charges that many residents had experienced serious violence, ill - treatment, and neglect while staying in the home. This led to more detailed information on the subject. Former residents reported violence and ill - treatment. On February 13, 2007, the government proposed a bill for a complete study of the activities of the home and other similar institutions where children stayed, i.e. Two weeks after the Cart Light Show, a bill was passed. Rules on the Committee to investigate eco-treatment systems for children, No. 26/2007, went into effect on March 28, 2007. A so - called economist committee was established, and it created the basis for social development of children in these households. This process, in effect, took less than two months on the program to legalize. As a result, 2010 law on fairy reforms for crimes on institutions and homes that fell under the above laws. The requirement to demand fair improvements was to provide an economist report on the institution and, in addition, the applicant's induction. In April 2007, the so - called ecology Committee was assigned to investigate the overall operation of the British State Home, with a letter entitled Prime Minister. The first report was published in February 2008, and it discussed the activity of the Bresavian Home in 1952-1979. The committee also gave proposals to the Prime Minister on how to react to the report, perhaps the State's benefits, and what steps to take. As a result, in April 2008, the committee received a new letter asking whether any other institutions should be examined and, if so, should it be. The committee then decided to investigate the activities of the following homes, institutions, and special schools: The no - hear school in Reykjavík, and based on the years 1947,1992 Kumbaravgur, in Stockholm, served in 1965,1984. The school home helped save at the Seltjanarnes, which served in 1965-1967. The London home of Smokejahlug, in the Mosfells Corps, served in 1956-1972. The branch office of Silungál was operated on by the city of Reykjavík in 1950 (c.E.) in1969. The boarding school for Jadar, which served in 1946 -1973 The country's uptake home at Ellishvami and in Kópavogi, which served in 1945◯1971 The country's juvenile home, which succeeded in the resurrection home, served in 1971-1994. Madam President. In the autumn of 2009, the prime minister appointed a committee to negotiate a bill for a law that would be recommended for reform to those who had suffered ill treatment or violence in institutions and homes below the standards of the Law since 2007. The bill of this material was submitted to the 138th legislation and adopted as law No. 47/2010, fair compensation for crimes in institutions or homes that agree with these laws. The businessman's office in the northern part of the country was assigned to take care of the autopsy, make an offer of reconciliation, etc. ... byauthority of the law. The Department of Justice is responsible for preparing and paying fair benefits to those affected permanently by ill treatment or violence in children's ecology or treatment homes. Your contact's work includes This includes conveying information to those who may have the right to be reasonable and providing guidance on the implementation of the relief cells following the applicant's induction. Then he has helped former pain - stricken residents to obtain services offered by countries and communities, such as rehabilitation and education. The European Commission completed work at the end of 2011 on the basis of orders from 2007 and 2008. When the project began, there were also reports of similar behavior in other institutions and households. The CDC recorded all the reports, but all of them were dismissed for improvement only if a survey by an economist committee had been conducted. In 2012, the World Health Committee was reassigned to inspect the children's supplies at Kapavogus and returned a report of the survey at the beginning of 2017. With law No. 117/2015 was a preliminary addition of law No. 47/2010, on fair compensation for errors in institutions or households that are subject to the law, which allowed ministers under the authority of an economist to decide that non-surrection reports will be submitted to the laid-off requirement for reasonable reforms. On the basis of the Law, fair compensation was paid for the treatment and violence of children who had been exposed to Landachots School in the past. A report on the implementation of reasonable improvements on the basis of the 2010 law of December 2018 shows that a total of 1,190 applications were received for fairness benefits for the previously diagnosed institutions and 41 on the grounds of homes and institutions which are not under law from 2007, or a total of 1,231 applications. All applications for other homes and institutions but those under the scope of the law were rejected. Thus, in view of the proposal made here by the movers, it may be expected that a part of the activity received on board to the Committee will protect an economist or a private home where children were saved by public authorities, such as the Children's Protector, and needed to investigate further details and research. At this present assembly, the prime minister proposed a bill to legalize the 2010 law of changing laws, of fair compensation for wrongs in institutions or households, so called closing up. The bill included the bill. proposed to investigate the activities of the ecology and treatment centre for children. In this context, the law was proposed to be modified so that fair compensation could be made in more precise cases without a legal report or other report and thus a simple improvement. The bill was passed as law No. 148/2020. The Committee of General and Education Committee reports that during the treatment of the situation, attention was given to the number of children set aside by government officials in a private home and that it was important that they also be reimbursed in such homes in a way that the government could create a setting where they could report their growth and circumstances in the homes. In this context, the committee pointed even at the same time. the importance of further discussions about saving children in private homes, as well as how these events could be determined. In the treatment of the case here before Christmas, there was a review from the Children's Institute, and I, with the permission of a president, would be able to read a small section of this review: In the opinion of the agency, it is essential that the group of individuals saved by the government, i.e. Children's welfare authorities, in private homes of children, receive the same opportunities as other children saved by government agencies in public institutions to express themselves about their stay in the homes they were assigned to [...] realize that a number of children were ordered by the government in a private home, and they also say that this applies to children saved because of their disability. With reference to this, the agency considers it important that a group of children saved from public contacts in private homes, both because of disability and other circumstances, are also allowed to make up their living in such homes in a way that allows publicisation to exist where they can report their growth and circumstances in designated homes, as well as those who were saved as children have been enabled. Madam President. This suggestion suggests that the prime minister, in consultation with the minister of justice, will see if there is any reason to investigate the activities of private homes where children were saved by the government. A minister is assigned to limit the activities the survey should take in and the period in which a personal protection would be taken into account. In view of the knowledge of an ecology committee that has developed in her work, it might be possible to consider how other countries have responded on a similar basis, including Norway. It is important for those who have been severely treated in such homes to reimburse the supplies. Since then, there have been a painful, multitasking, similar, for society. Transporters stress the need to examine the cases of individuals saved by government in private homes in a manner comparable to the activities of the above homes, as well as after incidents that individuals have the opportunity to improve these errors. Madam President. By the Law of December, No. 148/2020, who were appointed to complete a reform because of disabled persons who were saved as children in other public institutions to which the State was responsible, was considered to be the end of the past and could be taken into account by people who were saved as children or teenagers in the institutions for disabled persons who believe that they had been treated badly there. The law held that this so - called social development could be completed because of institutions where these children were saved and that may well be. But calling it a final showdown, Mrs. President, is considerably off the record. In this connection, I would point to the law No. The provision of a life span, three years, under the law of December, is 47/2010, on terms of fairness. I don't think we have to make up everything about the past. It's not over yet. For at least Children who were saved by government, government agencies, child care committees, and other bodies, homes, rural homes, and other homes, during those years and decades ago, and who have not been granted public hearing. That's what's left. It is not finished until we as a nation, as a community, have taken all these matters out of its dark past and have finished it. It is not finished until we have listened to these people, since they can settle their lives in homes where they were sent to be children by public authorities. Some of these may be cases of poor treatments that need to be renovated. I wish that the case would be successfully treated by a committee and then returned to the Hall.
