ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u1	Borist has received a letter from a health minister asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a covering query. 956, on the results of the disease prevention program, from Sara Elísa, the daughter of Þórðardóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u2	As answers are: Economic and economic ministers, foreign and development co-work ministers, travel, industrial and innovation ministers, social and child - welfare ministers, and marine and agricultural ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u3	Mr. President. Then, in November 2019, the question arose. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson, the highest. Ministers to the great waiting lists they had already accumulated after action, especially joint replacement operations. It had been a long time since such operations had been sent abroad, even though they were often three times more expensive than carrying out the operations here at home. The purpose of the query anyway. This time, a senator was an interview that had appeared at the highest level. The secretary of finance in November 2019, where he expressed concern about this situation but that the explanations given were that there was no need to negotiate with third parties because the National Hospital could perform these measures. The problem was, he couldn't do it because of a flow problem. It's like the highest. Then a minister said that there is one explanation, not an explanation that can hold in the long run, not an explanation that holds a year from year to year, as the highest. Minister said so. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: What is the explanation? Why can't the Landskeeper make up this waiting list? Isn't the government prepared to negotiate to buy this existing service and to be offered here in Iceland? In fact, it seems simply that there is a decline, a continuing decline, in the relations of the government, the government, to those who are independent of their business, and to the services of the State of Health. It's like the highest. A minister mentioned: Is it not wise to stop paying for these trips to foreign lands and to use its money in place here at home? Why hasn't anything happened in these cases, chief. Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u4	A respectable president. I can't help but say it's too disappointing that we're still stuck in this position with our replacement operations. Maybe first I'll talk about them specifically. It is important for society, of course, for each individual involved - we often talk about getting people back to work - that people do not have full physical activity. It is a clean benefit, not only for the individual but for the community all, employers and others involved, investing in the operations, implementing them to return to full-time activity. I still feel the same way I was back then. A senator refers to, we should not waste money by paying more expensive prices, which we agree on the need to take place. I can't tell you why the situation is that way. A senator describes it, and I would have had to learn more. I assume that the health minister can answer that question. But my vision has always been clear: We're not supposed to send people out of the country at three times the cost of taking actions that we agree on having the right to perform in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u5	Mr. President. V.E.G. The minister spoke wisely. I can agree with his analysis here, as I agreed with many of his good statements from the above interview. But this interview, where it's the highest. A minister sounds very much as he does now, was taken in November 2019. Then the minister stressed that this is not a condition that could be tolerated, accepting a year after year. Why the change? Why, apparently, is there continued hostility toward independent health - care professionals and public service at the cost of the State? Is this not simply a result of at least part of the government doesn't accept to buy services from independent health institutions in Iceland and would rather spend more money buying such services from similar foreign institutions?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u6	A respectable president. I emphasize that a health minister is allowed to state his case and is not going to give me anything about what the minister would say. I can only predict in my own part that a professional physician in Iceland plays an important role in supporting our health - care goals. It is obvious to me that not all operations are involved in the larger, heavy hospitals, who are primarily concerned with more activities that we need to unite and to gather all our energy in one place to care for. We need to ensure the flexibility and skill of the system will depend on how we fully use our opportunities in the interaction of private and public agencies, which are financed by public funds. I think it's a project that has to get in better shape.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u7	Mr. President. According to the government's financial programme until the next five years, the main focus is to stop the percentage growth of debt. If forecasts continue, there will be about 10,000 non-employed people in this country in five years. Instead of implementing further measures to attract people, companies and the economy in general through the economic problems, the government seems to put a high priority on a certain debt ratio in 2025, with the related cut-offs on government spending. In addition to the financial rule established by the government, the laws on public finances are to be taken into effect in 2026. The financial board gives this warning in its opinion of the financial programme and points out that both the rule of recovery and the debt crisis can become a major cause for swallowing after the economic crisis as it is now under way. In the first year, the loss of debt becomes the most burdensome and could still be followed by the effects of the epidemic on the economy. Despite the cessation of the rate of growth of 2025, the results will still be negative by 1.5% of GDP that year and the next. Thus, there is no doubt that the principle of decomposition will be burdensome to her return to true worship. So I want to ask the highest. The secretary of finance whether he will not take these financial warnings seriously and at least consider whether the economy will be more successful when a decision in debt is made rather than a date.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u8	A respectable president. I believe that it is the wrong description of the government's priorities in financial planning to say that all emphasis is placed on stopping the debt collection. To put it this way: All the emphasis is on using the terms of government over the years to provide resistance. We've got everything on the government fund this year. We'll have a considerable angle next year and a tremendous cumulative angle during the schedule period. This makes it impossible to say that what is part of the plan is that the government's budget will be used with full force. When you make such a decision, you must at the same time be able to answer it, and there was a particularly large question about the World Bank on a recent visit to Iceland: How do you see that this period ends? When are you going to stop using the terms of government? We realize that it is only responsible for stopping a slope and reaching a prime balance during the planned period, yet the financial situation remains to continue. I ask myself, " What should I do with my money? ' Now we managed to maintain a strong demand in Iceland last year. We were able to defend the legal rights of the households. We have seen that by this year, the purchase power of the households and the buyfulness of provisions has not been higher. What do advocates of increased debt proclaim? Is it so that we should hire public employees for all the jobs lost in the private sector or that we should simply raise all the benefits? [[The president calls.]] Should it be permanently, or should it be done temporarily? What is being proclaimed?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u9	Mr. President. The Budget Plan estimates that as a projection and tax increase take place, 20203 will begin at the foretold level of 67% unemployment. The responsible way is not to overwork too early. Rather, it is to allow space and to create peace regarding how to exchange income and their income, to scatter the burdens that are so unindependent, as everyone sees who are carrying, although the government groups want to close their eyes. The financial adviser points out that for Covid, budgets were sufficient for new projects up to 2% of the country's produce. Today, the government announces measures from 223 C.E. that cover all this budget, and when financial rules are also implemented, they call for further cuts on the annual budget. Important infrastructures will suffer for such management for a long time at related costs. [[The president calls.]] So I ask the highest. Minister if he is not concerned that if this policy of the government becomes more severe, we'll find ourselves in debt. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u10	A respectable president. In the 2009 Union government, there was a way of raising taxes during the crisis and stopping investments. It was, for example. Making a ten - year contract with the capital to keep no investments for a decade and to park a billion people on public transportation. That's what we're going to do. We'll see we're in the middle of nowhere. That's why this government is on the inside. We are raising the financial level of the state, and we make it more difficult to weigh companies and households. Rather, we have taxes of companies and households. When it comes to the scope of the needed adaptation in a financial program, we are presenting together with the projections designed, how much we will have to be effective in the years to come in line with the basic picture in order to reach our debt point in 2025 and 2026. In other words, we are showing that we have everything we need as a community to stimulate economic growth right now, get more land production, just to not have to pack up expenses or to go to the income resources crisis in the latter part of the strategy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u11	Mr. President. For the rest of the period, governments have made significant and progressive changes in health - care organization. The changes are consistent with the fact that they have been supporting the services of independent experts, clinics, and social organizations for decades. I'll give an example of some physical therapists and speech pathologists, but their operation is very upset. The same can be said of expert service. The latest example may be the transfer of the screening process and analysis of the cancer club to Land Hospital and Health Care Center and Denmark. Then there are other and older examples, e.g. to the end of Caitas, nursing and counseling services, and, of course, joint replacement operations as export products that were discussed earlier today. Governments have thus moved services from organisations with expertise, experience, and human resources to land hospitals and health care, despite the fact that these institutions are loaded with projects and at least in the case of a land hospital, it may be reasoned that this flagship in Icelandic health care is primarily to be carried out on tasks that others cannot perform. Now we face the challenge that the increasing life span of an Icelandic nation brings added stress to health care and a huge increase in cost. We know this from the experience of other nations and because it has been repeatedly referred to by experts. My question to the highest. So the minister of finance is this: Is it his opinion that the changes that have taken place in the system and in the medical system of this government, and in part, I have traced it here, are there best to meet the health - care challenge? Is his view that the needs of patients are best met in this way, that we meet the needs of the necessary innovation in the system in this way? And maybe what is most connected to the projects at the highest level. Financial Minister: Does he have confidence that this is how we make the most use of the large part of the budget that goes to health care? [[The president calls.]] The government is on the right road, with changes to the health system, as assessed by the highest level. Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u12	A respectable president. Whatever it is. There are several delicate issues that have not finally come to an end. We can mention in the delicate situation that physical therapists have free contracts, and I must allow me to hope that there will be contracts there, that there will be agreements on new contracts. But physical therapists and dentists are just crystal clear examples that the state can benefit so much from cooperation with those working outside the public health system that even if it is possible for the government to finance the ministry by contracts to do the operation. Another example is health care. Recently, a few years ago, as we were serving out clinics, there is another example. It is not necessary for the State to have and pursue the business itself at clinics, even though we finance the ministry. I don't think we've done well enough on all the benefits we've reaped from the change in the system that then comes from a health minister, Kristján Þór Júlíusson, led through which the capital is following people. I think we still have a lot to do there. So when you ask me if there's any way in which I think that treaties aren't done, etc., of course I'm not. I believe that here at the council is far too often sown seeds of suspicion because of a personal contribution to health care. I believe that it is at the same time all too little of a requirement from the council of increasing government production and that we are going to take a much more detailed discussion on that situation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u13	President. Thank you very much. A minister for the answers and wholeheartedly agree with what appeared at the end of the discussion about this situation. I wish we could sit here at the beginning of the terms, but not at the end because the fact is that major changes have been made. It is absolutely true that treaties are not readily available and there is an delicate negotiation. But it is also very easy to hide behind the problem if it is not a agreement's will to complete the situation so that treaties can be observed as long as the buyer of the ministry wants to, if that is the case. You're absolutely right at the highest. Ministers that much of what was done on health care during the season of the Independence Party minister was well done, but the benefits of having the financial support of a patient have not been sufficiently advanced. My question is also, as well as the one: Has this government ever been put into stitches at expense or possible benefits to the changes that this government has accomplished on the system and on the health system? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u14	A respectable president. Some examples show that we have tried to assess the results. I'll mention a report that came out in the fall of the test, if I try to boil it up in very short terms, that we've increased money into the public health system, we've improved the design, but we're not getting more efficiency. This is a serious matter, and we must discuss it here. What we need to improve in general, especially after making large contributions, as we have done in recent years, is exactly what it has done. I'm going to try to argue that we as a board of directors here together, as a council, as well as the agencies that support us in this, whether it's a Government Accounting or anyone else, do not have the necessary stroke force needed to get into the stitches and ask difficult questions, including the following: the cost of funding has increased to the people of the country. This is important, especially in our large carts, as in hospitals.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u15	A respectable president. I'd like to direct a request to the Department of Social Affairs. He should have his attention at the meeting. On February 19th. U.S. government proposed a Supreme Court proposal. Minister of Social Affairs to investigate whether the women saved in the land of Lysala, formerly Varpholt, in 1997-2007 had been severely treated, mentally or physically. The newly formed Quality and Health Organization and the Children's Protection Agency were assigned to the investigation, and the minister promised that the investigation would be rushed as soon as possible. It has been two months since this proposal was agreed, and there is little news on the case. In fact, two masks have fallen on the women who had a meeting with the highest power. A minister, claiming that he had a prerogative that this time they would be tested, not swept under a blanket, as at the last time their speech came up on the surface. A representative of the women sent e-mails on March 25th. where they asked for another meeting at the highest. Ministers because QA had informed the press that the study was not a priority for the Agency and that the decision was not to be expected in the near future, as it would be carried out with other projects. In the case of the e - mail, the women asked for the highest order. Ministers investigated them, including u, with President's permission: ◯ What is the objective of the study and its outcome, e.g. will they be made public? Who are involved in the study, and what time frame do they receive? Are you willing to put the study first and be emphasized as soon as possible? Since this e - mail has not been answered three weeks later, I want to make it my question here, and I ask the highest. Minister: Will he put this investigation first?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u16	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this inquiry, saying that I have twice met with informed women. As a result, I decided that we would encourage the government to investigate this matter. Then came a trajectory e-mail just before Easter, and the case is in place of the QA, which I'm going to go over a little later, and my assistant had a good conversation with one of these women last night. So it's a relatively large project, and I think it's extremely important that it's not the politics that's holding the study as such. But I'm aware that and I've pressed down at a QA, an independent surveillance agency, that the study is put first and that there will be no money that will be lacking. It is assumed, according to the plan I've been calling for, from the Quality and Observation Organization and have been received, that there will be about three to four experts with knowledge of studies in child care and events that will be involved in this project. Now calling for data related to the case, I understand that the list of data is about 500 legal documents. The Agency expects to complete its study in 2021. This is enormous. The details are 101 outside the staff of Child Services and other employees and are expected to have a personal interview with each of these employees, assuming that these interviews start in mid - May. Clearly, there is no saving in this matter. They're not trying to draw anything. However, I have also emphasized that this will be a good job and that I see nothing more than a QA and a surveillance agency is doing it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Other than that, a minister will not interfere with the investigation itself because it is in the hands of this independent monitoring agency.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u17	A respectable president. It is good to hear that there is some movement, especially that there will be several experts in this field who are taking on this and that the time has come. However, I wondered about the scope of the study and whether it will also cover what happened after the violence occurred, i.e. The time between their being informed about the violations and the accusations that have been made that the last time it was studied, the case was swept under the blanket by the then director of the Children's Institute of Children's Health. Is that part of the investigation? Very much. A minister will make the letter that appointed the Social Services and Child Protection Agency officially and will reflect the fact that all work practices around this case, including those that led to the failure of this investigation, will be investigated this time?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u18	A respectable president. Of course, it's no secret proposal that I set before the government that this case would be investigated. This is totally clear and is the request to the QA and observation centre. It is then in the hands of the Agency itself in the form of her investigation. The task it receives is to see whether and how this has happened to the violence that has been reported in the media. I don't think it's wise for a political minister to comment on the study, on its subject, on the subject of a particular case, but should hide it from this independent monitoring agency. And when this results, the decision to make the rest of the matter will, of course, be made. This is the professional formal setting in which this matter has been established. I told the women who contacted me that we were going to initiate a formal investigation. She's on her way, politics will not interfere with her in any way, and I trust an independent quality and surveillance agency to carry out that assignment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u19	A respectable president. Where is the money to be removed from the few living on it? This asked the highest. When I asked him why he didn't help the few people he thinks he's living with very few lives in Iceland, I asked him why he didn't help them. Yes, where should we get the money to do that? More than 2 billion have been paid to fight. Then there have been paid about 9 billion bucks. in the final concentration of income and 2.3 billion in the final concentration. During the past few months, 80 billion have been paid on a broad range of government support and resources for the pandemic with the exception of the provision for special interest. 7,000 jobs, 472,000. During a month plus a pension fund, and last but not least five days for a four - star hotel for food tourists. When these expenses were fixed, the highest came. The minister of finance went to a speaker's bar and asked: "Where on earth are we going to get money to do this? I don't remember that. That's why I'm asking the highest. Secretary of finance: Can't you get that money in the exact same place that he took the other one? Or is it possible to treat the very few people he believes will be very poor in Iceland? Do it at least of Covid pandemic, at least ... beforethe election, such as this campaign for 7,000 jobs, the people will probably be put on god and sea. But it must be possible to include these very few who live in a very poor country in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u20	A respectable president. There are too many people who don't make ends meet in Icelandic society. Senator. But we have been supporting them more fully, and we have done so in various ways. As an example, we can give an example of 4 billion years. which we in this government specifically set aside for that purpose during this ideal period. We've increased almost half of the support we've received from the social security system in less than a decade, and the financial resources of improvement have never been greater than today, never. We have never spent so much money on these lawsuits before. Hv. A senator asks if we might have - I understood it so that we could have used the money that had taken any further action or went to the same place. We took a loan. We feel that by doing so, we are saving valuables. I think it'll make us run a government fund with a huge angle and ideas that we will eliminate all revenues, for example, at tens of billions. But there is a problem, and I say that the answer to this underlying matter is still true. A senator who runs here is continuing to create something of great value. A powerful career in Iceland is a prerequisite for us to stop into the holes in the welfare system.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u21	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance answers. Save valuables, 4 billion, drop in the ocean. A single parent recently told me: In the mornings and in the second part after the 15th of each month, dorazey grass. Then the money is finished, and then the person, after rent and other expenses, can't afford another diet. The person said that on weekends, oatmeals were also produced with dried fruit, raisins, and other things, and a rider for change and luxury. Can we not invite this person and more than five days to a hotel and a meal? We do this by tourists, and we are not saving money there. I can't see that tourists coming to see the soda on Smokejanes are saving valuables, that's cost. [[The president calls.]] Consequently, these individuals must be invited to receive at least Five days in a hotel room and food, but it would be best to do so, as if with a job of 7,000, in advance of elections. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u22	A respectable president. It's always a bit tricky to take an individual example like a dog. A senator mentions. You want to understand what's in the back. You want to understand the income, the income currents, whether the person is active in a job market or not. But I can give you one example here; that for a single parent with two children, changes in child development in the history of this government have strengthened the situation of a single parent of 300,000 years ago. will make more than 100,000 dollars a month. every year. That's 100,000 bucks. supplementary reforms per year just because of the changes we in this government have been making. That's what matters. In case of a moment. A senator wants to measure this in oatmeal bowls, which are many oatmeals.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u23	A respectable president. I'm not going to trace the whole thing, but it was done very well with 2. Um... but I'd like to say I'm going to vote against this case. I don't like it. I don't think it's such a good idea, but it's begun with the decision to shut down Iceland's New Creation Center and that the rest that followed is simply some kind of mix to figure out what should be done after that decision. That's the wrong point of entry, a respectable president. It was an enormous opportunity to promote innovation in Iceland by means of assistance, including the U.S.A. The staff of Iceland's New Creation Centre, which this government decided not to use. Of course I hope this is going well. I really hope that I am wrong in this regard. But after considering the matter and listening to a discussion, my firm view is that this is a mistake. So I vote against it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u24	Mr. President. We're about to sail into a time where innovation has to play a much larger role in the country's valuables. It is also work that can be done anywhere in the country. By means of this bill, the government groups are suggesting that the New Creation Center be laid down without a clear explanation of what will be replaced. This scheme has fallen on rocky soil for many stakeholders who warn not to agree to such a hairy, vague bill. Building research is certainly urgent on countries such as Iceland, where housing costs are high, but it is also left entirely in loose air and completely unclear how it will be handled in the future. It's a very bad idea, and me and the Conspiracy say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u25	Mr. President. It is normal to support public support for innovation. The worst part is that this bill doesn't. This bill decreases official support for innovation. The whole process that we have seen in this matter is one thing: For vague reasons, it is being damaged. There were 45 comments from the government's consultations. Two out of three were negative. Thirty reviews were received to the Council, two out of three were negative. A lot of evidence has been made that this is an incredibly bad bill. It will cause damage and it has already been damaged, and of course we should not support so few.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u26	Mr. President. Hv. A senator mentioned that innovation must play a much greater role in Icelandic society. That's exactly what we've been doing. This bill is part of the fact that innovation will play an even greater role in Icelandic society. I'm glad we're voting on this matter. We set out on this project because I believe that it is the duty of us politicians to constantly review where the government can do things better and what may simply be stopped, with emphasis on priorities for the future. I'm proud of the work we've been doing, and thank you. Work committee is a big deal for work. All the factors that have been published have been addressed, and I do not doubt that the projects and the environment are in a better, more rational and more effective way. We are here to take another step, one more successful step to promote the new creation environment to a more prosperous future here in Iceland. This land was specifically referred to as the whole country. [[The president calls.]] It is incredibly positive to feel the greater power we feel all over the country. [[The president calls.]] This is exactly what people are beginning to do in a country where I believe it is a highly sustainable development for Icelandic innovation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u27	Mr. President. This case is an example of all the worst things that happen here at the Council when bad issues arise. Everybody knows it's bad, but it keeps getting better. Those who come to the committee as guests express concern, the reviews are negative, the staff was not included. Everything is wrong with this bill, Mr. President. This cannot be supported. We're against gambling innovation and supporting it in double vision and no, we don't want to start a private partner with left greens about this operation, so me and the media will vote against this bill. Best of all, it would be to return to the government so that this mistake would not take place.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u28	Mr. President. The subject was very critical in the reviews and in the case of visitors. A professional health committee. It is explained by professionals, and the evidence shows that what is mainly lacking was that the bill was sufficiently prepared and thought - provoking. Hv. The employment committee worked hard to beat the failures, and to support all the changes made by the middle class. But this bill is growing so that it has already caused damage and should be properly referred back to the government. We can't support it and we'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u29	Mr. President. Today, we are going to vote for the plans for transport, industrial, and innovation to destroy Iceland's New Creation Centre. My position is very clear: The best step to improvement is to withdraw the Minister's bill and start a more professional review in behalf of innovation and with a clearer view and policy. We members of the United Nations will not support this bill, and I challenge the members of the board to look into the matter further and vote according to their conscience.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u30	A respectable president. This case is a classic example of the politics we live in. The secretary is just making a decision to shut down Iceland's New Creation Center. Then the race to the left and to the left is to try to find out what to do instead. This bill is the result of that, a follow-up of a minister's decision. This bill is simply not good enough, and it does not answer what is about to happen in a position for the primacies of a more recent creation. There were absolutely things that had to be fixed in the Second Creation Center, all of whom knew. But the decision surprised everyone. This conclusion is not good enough, and only the bill should be pushed through the council because it must somehow be arranged for a minister's bad decision. It's a very classic practice we have to refuse.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u31	Mr. President. There is a innovation in this bill, and in innovation, it is natural to shake up regularly. At a professional station, we have worked hard to make good changes in this matter, which has been approved here in the Senate Hall, all for improvement. We are ensuring continuous construction research, as it is said, in the cooperation of the university here in the capital area, and in opening up a puzzle that serves all the people of the country, who are also innovation, because it has not been before, as there is a free counseling with pioneers, and that is important. The work is being done to make innovation more accessible to the entire population, and we are confident that this bill will lead to further innovation. [[The president calls.]] The government has been laying a lot of money on innovation in the country, on funds, about 70% increase, and this is one of the things we're building up, a new nation's environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u32	A respectable president. It's possible that I would vote with this bill if it wasn't in the context of what the government is going to do in general. But in view of the context, I see all I can do to sit next to this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u33	President. This proposal will ensure that the cost of progress is divided between parents after being exposed to association. We think it's a matter of justice, and we've been called upon to help an attorney who is an expert in family rights. We feel that this is a necessary change to make sure that the cost is just between parents, taking into account close association. Well, it seems to me that the Senate isn't exactly as progressive as we are, but it has to be. But I say yes to this suggestion, of course.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u34	Mr. President. Looking at these adjustments, I thought, " Wait, what's going on here? ' This is where the Central Party is going to suggest freedom of agreement between perfect parents and to have decided to change their child's estate and cooperate, to be suspended. I think it's kind of a strange suggestion because it's the parents who are totally involved with the baby. I can't support a suggestion where the lawgiver is about to accept the freedom of the contract from parents.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u35	A respectable president. It's a good thing to go through here. Sadly, not all families can take advantage of this arrangement on equal terms. Now is the time to examine it, and the adjustment in the motion of the material was accepted, which is positive. It would have been better to expect everyone from the beginning that this plan would have been useful to people regardless of their economic status and disability right from the beginning. There is plenty of time for the law to take effect until next year. I encourage the majority to perform the task as early as possible in order that when these laws go into effect, all of them have access to these resources, regardless of economic status and disability. As lawgivers, we are obliged to ensure that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u36	A respectable president. I want to thank you. The General and Education Committee for Work on this important bill. For a long time, the system has promoted different positions of parents who bring up children in complete peace, thus promoting disagreements that need not be, as one parent is in a much better position for information about his child, access to things, and the other is not even registered as a parent. This enables us to record homes in two places. The system must exist for all family patterns and must not be confused when the decision is made both sides to share responsibility and upbringing. It was always thought that it would take time for the bill to change the various regulations that would follow, so it served all families and children when having a child's home is the interest of both parents. Therefore, the date will not be until next year's end, so that it can be determined as was always planned before the law takes effect.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u37	A respectable president. I'd like to be happy that this case is about to land now. Of course, the lawgiver is not here to invent a new form, but he is finally granting him the recognition he deserves. I come up here to say specifically that I'm glad that it got through, after a little present, to go to work where three departments get timelined to make up for what is missing in this bill, about ensuring that children in these family types can enjoy equalness with other children, by ensuring them the equipment, equipment by incident equipment, and assistance that they need in both households. So it is clearly on the part of the Lawgiver now that this has to be corrected and made before the law takes effect.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u38	Mr. President. This bill includes two forms of change, one due to double punishment, which responds to the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, and this section is completely at peace; however, significant changes are proposed to the institutional arrangement and treatment of tax lawlessness, and this section is not acceptable. How important it is that the Council places heavy emphasis on the use of tax resources, including tax collections, on the part of the European Parliament! by strengthening the office of the government's tax investigator. We in the United States oppose getting our teeth out of government tax research in Iceland, in the way the bill announces, and suggest that it be referred back to the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u39	V.E.G. President. It's true that this bill is of two ways. On the one hand, the goal is not to be punished twice for the same offense; however, the purpose is to make tax research more efficient and more targeted. The main action in this subject is to combine tax research directors and taxpayers with the taxpayer to make better use of that amount of people. The purpose of the tax authorities is that the application is correct. It's part of the same place. It's the same office. It's a lot more efficient. However, a case that is considered to be a more serious offense requiring a criminal investigation, a criminal action, will be handled in a clear way. That's the point of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u40	Mr. President. This case is, as has twice been said now, by two forms, excellent changes to try to prevent double punishment and, on the other hand, to weaken the IRS system in Iceland. Actually, this is not the first time an institution has been put down by this government. It seems that it is a base of some kind for laying down organizations, usually for no other purpose than to lay them down. In this case it must be said that it is not clear that this will result in the result. It is far more likely that this will weaken the capacity of the founding system here to prevent a particularly massive tax fraud. Experience will show it. But we recommend that this case be referred back to the government because there are better ways to do this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u41	Mr. President. It may be true that the government and its supporters are impressed with the idea of putting down government institutions, but when it produces results and effectiveness in the government, it is wise to do so. In this case, all experts who visited the Committee, even the old employees and the head of the tax and taxpayer himself, are convinced that this is a reasonable step that will result in success in tax control, but more so in combating tax collections, tax fraud. Unlike the above claims, we are being strengthened in our fight against tax fraud. [[To the point: This is wrong.]] That's not true. A senator, that he's being weakened. You know as well as I do after a lot of meetings, including... with the experts all outside the tax investigator recommend the approval of this bill. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] That's the fact. Until then, Mr. President, this is the course of wisdom, and we will be more effective in fighting tax fraud by this change. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u42	President. It's very interesting to hear that people are trying to argue here that tax research is being reduced in this way. The office is being strengthened for this responsibility. It is very important that you do so and finish things at that stage. Then it is important that these institutions, tax research, and control are in the same place. It's to be concluded. There's another matter going around, and that's criminal treatment, and that's a charge. There are major fractures. It is not under the government's authority to go to such a trial. It is completely absurd in my mind and will do nothing good, but it is being suggested here, as is always done when trying to improve and strengthen these institutions, that they are being reduced from some sort of surveillance, trying to get men out of justice. That's reverse.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u43	President. For surveillance agencies in Iceland, we're like... ... withSupervisorCountry. First, because there was an uncomfortable director who did not fully carry out his role, not according to the politics, but according to certain matters. Second of all, if they're going to do their legal job well, they'll need half more staff. Yet they pay for this staff with the fines they receive, even though they are reduced by a political government. What is the cost of our lack of competition? We know: A healthy value tax level, 24% top of the price you pay for goods at the store, due to lack of competition. All the talk of strengthening the state's surveillance role here, of those who have been in charge and who are in charge -- that is simply not the basis for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u44	A respectable president. The product of taxation and use in national bank accounts, of national property, is a massive and massive lesion in Icelandic society. It is also a moral product, a moral lesion in an Icelandic society. Here we go. Councilmen rise and claim that the Agency is being funded and controlled by tax returns, as well as the research of the national tax environment by decommissioning institutions. This office is being strengthened by putting it down.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u45	Mr. President. I believe in this bill that it is an important step. The bill isn't perfect. That might have been the case. I believe that there is some improvement, and that's why I will support the bill in the form it's presented.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u46	Mr. President. As we have noted, this is the case with the European Court of Human Rights on double punishment, which is of utmost importance. It has been claimed that major changes are being made in the scope of tax research. That's not true at all. It is primarily a process to explain who should be involved in the aspects of tax research, i.e. that the tests that might lead to a criminal investigation will immediately take place, while others will be cleared by fines. This is not a time to reduce your teeth from tax analysis in Iceland. Far from it!
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u47	President. I recall that a few years ago, we were dealing with budgets that were being set up for tax research that was supposed to produce a lot of money because they had to cover some gaps in the survival of a government fund, that was 2018, or something like that. I haven't heard much about what happened to those actions, it was a classic move to make the government account look better, make the budget look better. This is yet another example of how it is to guess whether an arrangement is better or not and under the hat that an organization is being laid down and reduced or something like that, but it is being strengthened. You don't quite realize where this discussion is. Overall, we know that tax charges are a serious problem in Iceland. We've contributed extra funds to get it better and to see no results. [[The president calls.]] I can't see in this bill that it's being fixed, at least not clearly explained.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u48	A respectable president. Practicality is the motto of those who want to stand in this change, this weakness of the IRS research in Iceland. It is totally against the authority of the tax investigator himself who made a comment. The Economic and Business Committee says that the bill will be legal and if, by permission of the President: ...the local district attorney should investigate major cases within his own resources will prove necessary to establish an additional staff with enough expertise to cause the investigation of large and complex tax wastes. They will then need to operate in two institutions of such specialized components, which are known to serve the preferred economy and effectiveness of government management. - But that's what local spokesmen have said. Likewise, the tax investigator says: ▪ In addition, such an arrangement will, to some extent, result in a repeat investigation when it begins either as minor or as major matters, but if at a closer inspection, it does not belong at a starting point... [[The president calls.]] This will go against one's goals in both ways. It's not a good thing, Mr. Honorable President. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u49	V.E.G. President. Good things happen slowly. For a long time, this has been a matter of mindful thinking. Councilmen, to support and promote public welfare in the country, with tax motives for individuals and legislators, to assist those who contribute to that activity. I want to thank you very much. Financial and economic ministers for taking the matter to heart with the order of a working group and setting aside ambitious preparations for a bill, if only we wouldn't be voting with the development of this case today. There is reason to rejoice in the uniqueness and solidarity that exists in the matter, which, of course, is in its nature complex in implementation when it comes to tax systems and set of values and shows up. the changes in the bill as a dog. The Economic and Business Committee suggests improvement. The matter comes with funding, 2.1 billion with budgets, but it is in particular recognition of the importance of voluntary work involved, the support of a variety, the need for necessary and unselfish work in community interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u50	A respectable president. This is not a big case. It's not a big deal. But there is a huge factor in our community, which is the contribution of volunteers and others who have devoted their public goods to the country either to their active work or to a large extent. With this bill, for the first time in a long time, the council is sending a very clear message and saying: "We appreciate what you're doing. It means a lot to an Icelandic community. We're saying to those who want to share this with all, with a variety of functions, a team: We want to show them understanding. We're not going to take all the crowns through the government fund and share them out again. We want to trust the people of the country to decide which public good work, humanitarian work, sports and youth they want to support. We're also, except for all that and, in addition, saying to the companies: We expect you to be on this operation in the country. [[The president calls.]] We're ready to give a tax discount. Now the companies have to step forward and take a bigger step than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u51	A respectable president. This bill has adopted a small but important step toward supporting the public community. The bill covers activities such as youth service, our rescue forces, nature protection organizations, etc. How glad we are that we are taking these steps now! The next step in the same direction must be completing the public interest bill that is already inside the council, and I look forward to continuing to deal with it and finishing it here before Congress ends.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u52	Mr. President. The issues to the Economic and Business Committees vary equally, they vary in complexity and size, sometimes whole books, as we are about to start dealing with, and they are also equally pleasant. It's been a great pleasure to be able to deal with this bill, and thank you very much. Secretary of finance is eager to send it to the committee, and I also thank the Committee for the pleasant cooperation that was achieved in this case. I feel like we should be a little conceited or proud of ourselves today when we send these good messages and say, "You guys who put all these things on you, all these public societys, sports companies, rescue teams, charity, thank you very much. We appreciate what you're doing, and we're going to encourage the public to support you firmly but before we know that an Icelandic community is not as good as it is if it's not yours. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u53	A respectable president. I have a question or a tip for Mr. President and the Presidency Committee. This is so that various reports are made available to the council. Some report has now arrived at the council. It seems that she's off the record. It's about things in the community. Still, it seems that individual senators can go through the press and express themselves on the report, and they are likely to have seen it. It has not been received in the Department of Transport or some institutions that would like to express themselves. As a minister of transportation, I would like to comment on this report because I have seen it in the process. I haven't seen it at the end, but there was a lot of positive things to do with the D.A. administration. I find it very odd that the council should have the method of confidentiality in a report that seems to be available to individual senators, while others cannot express themselves about it. It can't help an official, more reasonable, subversive discussion in a democratic community. Therefore, my inquiry is whether there is any guidelines for confidentiality here at the council. [[The president calls.]] The point is, if this is the case, that reports coming through the council appear to leak out, whether it needs to be adopted by another protocol that it is published as soon as it is delivered to the council so that others too can participate in this discussion. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u54	Mr. President. Yes, I've expressed myself about what has been published in the news about the reports, and there's been a lot of them. Yesterday, information on the content of the report was suddenly published, very detailed. The information currently does not appear on the management and monitoring committee or on the environment and transport committee where members of the Committee have received a requested report. I'm the highest. A minister to read the media because there is clearly a lot to be found that I think to the highest. A minister should look at and take seriously.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u55	Mr. President. I just want to say the word. A senator who spoke before. All news times, news on all media, the last days have been focused on the content of this report. You're absolutely right by the Topv. A minister, of course, that the leak is not exemplary. However, it would be a very strange situation for us senators to be in if we could not comment on the information presented in the media at any time. I think it's kind of strange that I do. A minister should refuse to attend an interview and discuss at least the information that has been leaked. Then it is a matter of independent activity to prevent reports from being leaked at all, and I don't think anyone is above their suspicions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u56	A respectable president. I generally believe that the confidence should be respected unless there is a very good reason for breaking it. Then I mean when I have to reveal something, e.g. The same is true of lawbreakers. The other is that I generally feel too strongly about having confidence in things that do not have to be confidential. It is the other part that could also be revised, as much as possible. A minister mentioned here as a possibility: Do you need this confidence? Is he good? Isn't this a bigger case than the confidence intended to protect? That is worth considering. The nature of the Agency and the nature of our role, including our own, should be remembered by our confidentiality here at the Council. Talking about things in front of the public. In general, I don't approve of breaking our faith and respecting it myself, but I often feel that it's more a distraction than the other.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u57	A respectable president. Of course, the issue we discuss here is boring for many reasons. I just want to say the word for opening at the highest. Secretary of transportation Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson. This report is not yet a minister. For example, it was estimated that she would be introduced by a government accountant at a meeting of the Environment and Transport Committee for the next Tuesday. As chairman of this committee, I have taken the stand of not expressing myself materially on the report until this introduction has taken place. We must bear in mind that the procedure we see with the Council, i.e. that a head accountant is given the opportunity to present to him the points, the reports of which the Agency works for the Council Committee, or whatever the case in each case. It's the clown we're breaking, and I'm not pointing in any direction. [[The president calls.]] I want us to keep in mind that it's not free of charge if this song needs to be changed because of a leak from ourselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u58	Mr. President. This is interesting. I can, in a sense, agree that confidentiality is not the same as confidential; it's just that sometimes things can be abused. We know of the fact that reports are being published, etc. so it's a multiple part of the process. But I would like to point out that to some extent, this is a home - to - house problem. Some weeks have passed since this report was submitted. We have the arrangement for it to be returned to one committee, and she meets for a table and a plate, and her sole purpose is to take a stand for the report to be forwarded and then waiting for a meeting. I know that we have a lot to read, and I take to heart what the director of the Transport Committee here speaks about, to some extent, by consideration for the members of the Parliament so that they can study the matter. But I trust to complete a report like this in less than three weeks, at least. so that I could express myself about it and listen to the comments of a Kingdom accountant in this case. [[The president calls.]] We must have to revise this in some way. We have a day's notice, and then the report is only official as soon as a meeting is held. We'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u59	President. I just wanted to come up because we're talking about religion in general. I admit that I find it very confusing when it comes to all kinds of data and reports, how to approach it. We received data from the Ministry of Health the other day, and we were convinced of that evidence without any reason. This makes it difficult for us to do our job. It was only natural that confidence was not needed more than that, and the evidence was available to us. However, some personal information, which could easily have been removed, had not been removed. I feel that confidentiality should only be in exceptional circumstances, when it is absolutely necessary. Otherwise, it's just supposed to be open. It's all right to report it publicly and introduce it to members of Congress later. I don't see that there's a reason for confidence in the report, not if it has something to do with the public, and it's going to be made public anyway. It would be best to do so right away. Then we wouldn't have to be talking about any leaks.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u60	A respectable president. We are talking about a very special subject of opinion when it comes to the reports of Our Kingdom Accounting and how they appear to the public. I think it would be wise to have reports of the State Reconnaissances simply passed on to all members of the Parliament when they are available. The reason for special confidence in this report is consideration for members of the council, so that they may have already studied the report before they have a general discussion in the community, so that they are not merely talking about the contents of the report they have not received, as the minister seems to be complaining about here. If we had an easy task to change, we would simply send their reports to all members of Congress, not just the members of the Parliament, before they are made public, say two days earlier, we wouldn't have the difficulty of waiting for two or three weeks for a public discussion because they are in some waiting room with committees that need to find a meeting to set them up.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u61	Mr. President. Sounds like there's a reason to go over the work being done here. The procedure was developed after the current government accountant came into good cooperation with the council, changing from the previously established arrangement, making public reports before they had been sent to the council, before the members of Parliament had seen them. That was critical. The new design of the Management Board is required to send a report to the President, the president to send a direct route to the management and monitoring committee, and after a national accountant has established a meeting with the Committee to report on that day, they are made public. This was out of consideration for the General Assembly so that the Council of Parliament would have had the opportunity to study the report and ask a question to a state accountant before a public discussion of it began. It is very sad that the council cannot respect the confidentiality necessary for, after incidents, a few days, or even if it is two, three weeks at the time of the Passover break, in order to maintain this order. This process is worst for itself if it fails to succeed in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u62	President. For these reports and reports in general they come, such as the highest level. Presidential Congress has reviewed, first to the President from Re-Election and then to the Commission, who has three options; to process the investigation; to work themselves; to obtain a review from another committee; or to refer it to another committee permanently, as in this case, because all the members of the Environment and Transport Committee requested to continue working with this report. The reason for the delay is that we received our report on March 29th. Then it was Easter break. And as has been attributed since then, a meeting must be held and decided how to do this. Then, as noted earlier, does the report need to be classified? It wasn't like that. This was changed and may need to be revised. I think it's the next step to reconsider if the procedure has to be that way. If you decide that the process needs to be done, it needs to be appreciated. I'm not sure that it actually works in praxize, especially if it takes so long to finish the reporting coming to the desk, and as a result they could just leak into society, because we're getting them, of course, of course. However, it may be possible to learn some conclusion that when a report arrives at the council, it will come quickly and effectively; the media will have it in advance under ◯embaregogie. [[The president calls.]] There are solutions in these matters. Let's just get close to it on the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u63	Mr. President. This is a very helpful discussion. I came up here to explain the change that took place in the election season, which was the highest. The president went over to publish reports only after they were introduced to committees. However, we are in such a community that the media has begun with coverage, and of course it is very unfortunate. But then I feel that I have been working in the media and have been reading the coverage, and I encourage a minister to do so too, unnatural not to react to the media coverage. I find it odd to stand here and pretend that we're not aware of all the discussions that are taking place in the community. To me as a former mediawoman and as a public servant, it is a peculiar attitude to say, "I refuse to talk to you about what you're talking about today. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think it's a bit of a special attitude, Mr. President. But the faith should always be respected.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u64	A respectable president. This is usually given reasons, and they hear exceptions that in matters discussed by the council, a period of confidentiality is required. V.E.G. The president of the council has done well here over the rules of this matter and the agreement made between council members and state accountants on grounds. I think we need to change the process, a respectable president, especially after we've seen senators coming up here one by one and making it clear that it's bound to some sort of emotional decision made by the individual council or that it's so confusing that people can't keep their arms around it. Of course, this is reflected in the fact that there is a rule rather than an exception, a respectable president, that the issues here are a temporary leak of trust in the media. It has become a very common rule, and this has become a major failure since what was once known here at the council, even though it was not without exception. I suggest we reexamine the procedure. It's simply this way, and it's well reflected in the discussion, that you can't be trusted here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u65	President. I've been sitting down. The Commission and monitoring committee under three presidents, everyone from the management position, and has not had any problem with the budget of state reviews. It's off the record with the General, but I've also viewed it as confidential with a public accountant because we're doing the same work. It's really easy to keep your confidence. It's really easy not to communicate. It's quite easy. You just don't say anything. I hear a lot of people have ideas about changing things, don't consider this a good arrangement, and that's fine. We're supposed to have ideas about how to get things done, and it can be suggested, done with a case, put it into Congress laws, and the ideas of a reexamination of it. It's just really good that we do it. But we must agree that we follow the rules that apply to us while they apply them. Surely all of us agree on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u66	A respectable president. I was one of those three presidents of the Board of Directors and Control Committee at any point. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé points in. He said there had been no problem with this procedure. I'd like to promote that when a government accountant took over, for example. For the government's partial reformal route, we decided to move on in an effort to speed up the release of that report as much as possible because it concerned matters that were being treated at the council. Hence, it was very important that she get into the discussion as soon as possible, that she could get into the hands of all members of the Parliament, especially members of the Parliament, who were making changes in the legal legislation that was being studied in the same time - term review of the Kingdom Accounting Committee. I also believe, in view of the role of the State accountant as the Generalist, that it will be a blow to the fact that it is only part of the General Assembly who receives reports from the state accountant, and it means some kind of confidence in the rest of the council when members of Congress are handed them over, Mr. President. I just think it's a perfect opportunity to revise these procedures now so that all members of Congress have at least one. equal access to this information before it is made public.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u67	A respectable president. I would like to reiterate my inquiry to the president and the Presidency on what is the general protocol for confidentiality. If I read the discussion right here, they don't trust to maintain the principle, the confidence that has been committed. Then it was my second suggestion that the procedure be considered. I'd like to remind you that here are more and less members of the council and therefore members of Congress themselves and their access. Public Accounting reports are very different from members of the Parliament, and they are not allowed access to the report until it is published. They can't express themselves. I'm going to say that I find myself strange if I should go to the press about some thing they've pulled out of a report they've somehow gotten across from this council, but I haven't been able to see and therefore can't express myself, let alone an institution such as a Grouproom that's the most discussed, or even some individuals in the town. [[The president calls.]] It is a serious matter that individual members of the Parliament go out and talk about something they have access to and no one else has.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u68	In the media. Access in the media.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u69	Mr. President. It's hard to discuss this particular case because it was supposed to be a specific process. Remember, though, that leaks are an allergic reaction to communism. Clothes are melanchoism, which is designed to protect much less or more of the time in life. Faith will be justified only if it is justified in defending the interests. If confidentiality is broken, there must be exceptions. But it was always clear, in my opinion, with a report as such that it would eventually go through the media and that public discussion would begin. It's perfectly obvious. It would have been amazing if it hadn't. Of course, you have the highest respect. Minister would have wanted to see the report, but the council must, of course, be able to respond when this leaks. There are two ways: The first way is more secret thinking, that the hands of people are bound in some way. It just calls for a stronger allergic reaction. The other is that the interests of those who benefit from the secrecy of society's interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u70	A respectable president. I think there's every reason to discuss confidentiality in a slightly larger context here at the General Assembly. Not long ago. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson was accused of breaking our faith when he spoke of a hearing here at the council. I find it very strange to listen to the administrative part complaining at the height of the breaking point when they have something to do with their assigned jobs. It is not as if here leaked personal data or military information or plans for large-scale government intelligence against citizens, as happened, e.g. in Edward Snowdens's case. It's not like that. This is a report that will be published anyway, which became public until the members of the Parliament would have liked it. I understand all of this, but I feel that much of that part is important when there is no need for trust. This is an arrangement that was settled in harmony and in good condition. But I believe that I have good reason to reevaluate it rather than come here and turn aside to other members of the council and say that this is a matter of personal opinion. A respectable president. This is a transparent organisation and should only be as transparent as possible. It's no more complicated than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u71	Mr. President. I come here to protest what has been said here, that it is more common, not that this is a broken-down. That's wrong. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] As with this report, however, something happens. Now I don't know where it leaks or who stands for it. However, this cannot be so that a confidence can cover mountaintops in the media that are available to all. Hv. The head of the welfare committee is not a member of a management and monitoring committee or an Environmental and Transport Committee. However, she was the one who composed the report request and presented it. Newsmen ask questions about every website and all are available, and it answers those questions. A clown can't walk out on a grave and death, I'll just say, Mr. President. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u72	A respectable president. I have an understanding that confidence is fraught with resentment, and it should never be broken. I also have a certain understanding of the highest. A minister has compassion for an experienced U.S. Association, to answer for what has been presented in the media on the content of this report. That's normal. On the other hand, I put a question mark on one thing in this discussion, in all kindness and with all due respect. I don't know exactly what it'll be like when the public learns of tonight's main concerns and the highest. A minister of this report and what it says is that the evidence is quoted in the report. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u73	President. It's kind of my favorite talk, everybody's right, everybody has a point. Understandably, we senators want an opportunity to consider matters before we have to answer for them, that is what everyone understands. The same applies to members of the community that the report focuses on and on, such as the highest level. Minister's talking about. That is understandable. But we need to be careful just how broad this concept of religious belief is. There's nothing too extensive in this context. As has been said, the report will be made public and its contents will remain unmistakably public. Such is the severity of this leak, no matter where it came from, just to keep it in mind. This is not a serious leakage of data at all, this is not even close to it. So in this case, trust is not remarkable after all. Yet, everyone is right in this discussion, and it is, in my opinion, the most enjoyable discussion, when we are dealing with common issues that we agree on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u74	Mr. President. I want to answer the highest. This is the case with a secretary of transportation and rural administration, and I understand very well that he has a problem with the position he and his subsidiary are in: I'm afraid to ask the highest level of prayer. Ministers and Associations Apologize on behalf of Generalis in the situation due to a relevant report. But I am not prepared to declare it here and now that the Council is unable to handle the procedure developed in cooperation with a new government accountant. I'm not ready for that. This is not the question of keeping a secret, of locking up something and talking about secretism, that is not the case. This is merely a question of how to reveal the publication of the News Review. Is that supposed to happen with the old song, that it is published on the Kingdom News Web site the day it comes from the printing process and before the council receives it? Or does the Allegler's conference of taking the report, bringing it into the management committee, get a presentation on the report, and then make it public at the same time with everyone in the country, including the media, because they are not to be given the report until everyone else has received it? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u75	A respectable president. I don't usually get involved in this program or come up here, but I can't say anything right now. I find it strange when members of the United States come up here and try to minimize the importance of confidentiality. In fact, it even says that confidentiality is some sort of mechanism. Faith is a measure of trust. This should be true of us. [[For example: You should know that.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u76	Mr. President. This is an important discussion here. It might be worth something more than the President's conference board. Maybe it'll come to that. I think we need to dive into the project and improve our understanding of it. I can say yes and I understand the highest irritability. Ministers on behalf of their subsets in the way this goes in the media, not whether it will be in the media. But I come up here to make a comment to wording. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son, who said it was more common than not, or order, if I remember the word very accurately, that here leaks information. I wanted to reveal here that I remember more examples of the government refusing to give information and trust and was retraced by information laws than the fact that confidentiality was actually broken. So the question may be, How do we handle this concept, and that may be possible? in the hands of everyone here, making sure it's not going well. There's the possibility of a real problem. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u77	A respectable president. Yesterday we were discussing a bill to correct a change in organizational law. It's a bit difficult when the conversation is cut down, because the reason I asked for the word yesterday was not the least because much was referred to what I had said the night before in a discussion of national organization. It may be even more difficult to get into the rhythm of planning laws after a 40-minute discussion on the President's conference board, but I'm going to try. I must admit that I was just very happy last night when I noticed that here a crowd of senators had evidently listened to my talk late in the evening about national organization. Sometimes you feel like you're talking here with an empty room, and there may be no one listening. But words make a difference, and the drop breaks the stone, so it should be delighted that what you say here will reach people's ears. A respectable president. I've had that vision for a long time, even before I came into Congress, that a national organization could be used as a means of making certain preparations, and I would say that reasonable and national important projects will be made easier and easier to achieve such projects. Then I'm saying that in a national organization it might be a good idea to specify a significant infrastructure. I mentioned in it a special electrical line or other host, a road, a harbor fortress, and I also mentioned an airport. This may be the case with the airports that may have touched a lot of people without some particular approach to the airports we have today. That's what I did in return to the highest degree. A minister of the environment in a discussion of national organization and some members of the Parliament felt that he would answer in a way that would well be possible. In fact, I had the highest answers. Ministers don't like that. I didn't think my question was as effective as certain members of the council seemed to be concerned. But then a minister named this bill that we're discussing here, which is a change in organizational law. I must admit that this involves all the smallest steps we can take in these matters, but that is an important step. This is where we can get electrical lines that cross rural societies with a special electron committee that could reach such an agreement. It's not for good reason that I discuss it, and I just rolled it up, and it's not for a reason. Minister will present this bill. In fact, it was the policy of the government covenant to review, now I do not remember the exact wording, organization, and implementation. This is addressed in the government covenant. It involves the considerable discussion that we have built over a organizational structure, an estimate of environmental impact, implementation, and so forth. But what started fires and spread people still in that it was absolutely necessary to make some changes was the storm that swept over Iceland in December 2019. At that time, there was much damage, the loss of transportation, and the loss of employment. The electrical transport and distribution systems became extremely severe. It raised the important discussion that we have failed to connect the entire country and to ensure the security of electricity despite having this important environmental electricity. In other words, we do not need electricity. We have it in the system, but, still, in certain areas, we have had to invest in diesel engines and keep rushing electricity when something's wrong because we haven't been able to build up the distribution system. Of course, there is an enormous issue that needs to be addressed. I'd like to celebrate the step taken here with this bill, but I also have to say that if I had been a environmental minister during this election period, I would have wanted to have a general review of the planning laws with the goal of ensuring a clearer vision of how we planned and built up wood in this country. This is not to say that environmental assessment should not be carried out, nor should environmental factors be guaranteed, nor should it be guaranteed that individuals, professionals, and members of society have full access to their comments when under extensive operations. It's very important. But it simply needs to relieve the tremendous difficulty we have built up around organizational activities and carry out such important infrastructures. The problem, or we are to say that the project that has been compared to the pink elephant in this room when discussing these matters is so self - determination and their independence, which, of course, is guaranteed by the constitution. I worked for many years in rural and organizational matters, and I feel that the organizational authority of my colleagues is extremely important. But it's a bit complicated when it has to be organized, e.g. Electrical lines, of course, are the finest examples in which they go from country to country. Then there's one community that just doesn't have the same page as all the others and lies against it. It is not only these factors that may have been passed through, we have a regional structure, and there is a major organization in each rural society, and then there's a case on its own, and it can be reported and it can be reported at all levels in each rural society. That's what I think this bill is working with, trying as much as possible to simplify it. It's important, and I support it. According to this, there was also something discussed here yesterday, and I cut it off because it is very clear in the Committee's opinion what the committee is thinking; they talk about not being an example for other ways, to take some step in taking the right to self - determination or organizational authority from the local community. I understand that. I said before that I felt that the organizational authority of the countryside and their independence was very important, but it is still that I've been a co-sponsor on two initials is subject to taking the planning of rural society. There's a bill on the road around Chets Forest and Southnes line. It's not because I want to take this power from a community, it's a surrender. This is a surrender to the system we've built up, surrender towards our ability to perform this very important project. I don't think it's to be remembered that at the Council we're performing such bills. That's why I think the mission is that we're going to secure this new law. A respectable president. I find it important in view of the discussion that last night the senators realize that, yes, we are here as lawmakers so that it is clear in the bill and the committee that it is about what is being allowed. But I'm still using my voice to say that I want to go further. I realize perfectly that it's complicated, and everyone will never agree on it. But in view of the fact that we've driven ourselves too often, it's not to get ahead with important projects, I feel like we have to watch new ways. And the way I have suggested in this discussion is the national structure. Then I'm going to repeat what I said in the short answer I had regarding land planning: I'm going to direct them to the point. The environment and transport committees as they deal with the national structure that they wonder if it is not wise to consider that at the next revision of national planning, they are looking at how to organize important infrastructures that cover the whole country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u78	V.E.G. President. We will continue to discuss this matter that has to do with the adjustment of organizational laws, infrastructure, and living quarters. This discussion is mainly about an electrical committee and how to deal with that issue, but I felt that it was contrary to discrepancies. I was reading the bill that was submitted, and this is about the electrical transport system. What says in a-a team 1st par. and is added, if: ▪ Electrical charge systems: Power lines and infrastructure related to those necessary to transport electricity from activation to big users and to diffusers, corrosion. and further definition of transport systems into electrical law.◯ Then, in the bill, the electron structure section, at 3 mg. a-arms 7. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: A national policy should be taken into account in the preparation of an electro-line structure. The design of the organization should also take into account the requirements of electronic energy laws, the current government policies on the transport systems of electricity and the implementation of a system plan. The newest system plan was just stamping, I understand, a few days ago. What I was trying to get yesterday was the understanding of this in my discussion. If I quote the opinion of the committee in this fine matter, the committee will discuss the main elements of the bill: The bill suggests that changes of organizational laws due to modified administrations related to the implementation of electricity transport systems by the command of a so-called electro-line monitoring committee allowing implementation for electrical outputs based on a confirmation system and monitoring them. They're just talking about the transport system that Landsnet is carrying. It's divided. I don't see in the bill that there's anything specifically spoken about the main transport system. It's just the electrical transport system, which is the system run by the Landsnet. It is the based circle, which is the main transport system, and then the Landsnet also runs the regional system that is part of this transport system, which is connected to major users and diffusers. I read what came from the Committee, and it only agrees with the implementation of electricity transport systems. Then, in the chapter on electron committees and electrical systems, I'll witness in the opinion of the committee, the highest. President: The main transport systems of electricity are unique in nature, exceed the limit of several rural communities, and differ from other social infrastructures, which, in the opinion of the greater part, justify discussion of organizational changes and implementation of special treatments. As noted in this discussion, this actually comes into existence as an idea from the campaign group that gave ideas in February or March of the year after the storm in December 2019. That was one of the suggestions there. What I'm trying to call attention to is how you define electronic transport, that it's the same understanding as in the bill. There in the Committee's opinion, this is just one extra word, a main import system. It sounds like it only applies to the transport system, but not to the transport system. But that was exactly the system that suffered massive damage in the storm of December 2019. It was not just the base line that went bad for the first time, where it was seen in several places, but it was actually in the regional system where we saw the greatest disaster in the storm; the sheepland line, Dalviline, Húsavíkline, Kapkerline, and Laxyear line in the north all went down. They are part of this electronic transport system at Landsnet. That's how I understand the bill's text. So it's in one place in a majority of the environmental and transport committees that talk about a main transport system, otherwise it's spoken in the spirit of the bill. It's this understanding that I'm thinking about, I don't know if it's just a mistake in the text or if there's any ideologies behind it. The regional system can also include more than one rural society, and there may be two, three rural communities. I know at least. about one example I can mention immediately, as that applies to three societies. It's, for example. Dalvik line, which covers Akureyri, the Hörgjord, and the town of Dalvík, for example. This understanding is important. They're going to take place in the next few years, and the lines got bad out of that weather. This understanding must be assured that we are talking about the understanding presented in the bill on this matter. I think it matters because there's a difference in these two things. Of course, it's important everywhere that all of this works, that we get our electricity, and that's what all this is about, electronic security. That is what the campaign group after the storm succeeds with this suggestion, that it has been won, and now they find their way to us in this year and into this matter. Otherwise, I'm not going to go on a lot of this discussion, but most of all it's just about to turn around and see if it doesn't apply to the regional system because there's a lot of lines under there.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u79	President. I'm just gonna take on some things that have been said in the discussion that went out here last night, starting with a few words. paritaprevir Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson Trustinbert earlier on the committee opinion, i.e. that in one place, the main transport system is called electrical energy, whether or not it conflicts with what is in the bill. It is possible that in the opinion of the committee, at the site where there is a major transport system, we are simply explaining our stand on the precedent of this one. Of course, we are suggesting that the bill be accepted with all the terms in it. The matter has been called between 2 and 3rd. And I really support it, Mr President, I will only enter it afterwards. Let's sit over it. But I think I can claim that there is no meaning behind this other than this one, and of course it's the terms of the bill itself. The bill is very clear about how an electron committee is treated, and that is the case. President. I would like to add a few words to this discussion, which has revealed to me that it has been special, not necessarily all, about the subject. Several of it found its way into the media, but nothing materially. I thought we were going okay, but then somehow the political bitch got into us, and suddenly we were, and I including, not necessarily trying to find the best way in this troubled matter, but in some sort of party political bitch. I'm sorry, Mr President, because this case is very important. It takes quite a factor, plays on quite a basic feeling. I'm thinking that everybody's making a good decision here, everyone trying to make the best of it. That's why I would have chosen the discussion to be about this rather than about what people want to see in the future, a discussion that even adds to the fear that I intend to say is quite valid for the rural communities regarding organizational authority. I'm going to ask more than once members of Congress and more than twice in the motion of deporting a community planning authority, to face their responsibility for the suspicions of the rural community expressed in the opinion of the European Union of Iceland, to appear in the opinion of Reykjavíkurburg. The committee took this suspicion very seriously, so the committee puts these things into words as she puts them in the committee's opinion. So I'm sorry that last night's discussion made sense as if it wasn't relevant enough. Yes, in a book from the city of Reykjavík, and in the comments of Reykjavík, it is specifically stated that this should not be an example, that people must simply reject the bill because they fear it is an example, especially from the city of Reykjavík. The relationship wanted to agree with that, so I'm clear. As a member of the Committee, we took them very seriously, and this is mentioned in the committee's opinion. I'm going to allow myself, with the permission of a president, to read that chapter again because I feel like he's out of work in a garden: ▪ It is evident that the bill consists of variations from the organizational principles of rural development. All such abnormalities should be interpreted very narrowly. A major part of the report shows that there are already some laws that limit the authority of a community to determine land use in planning, as discussed in the bill's report. The majority of the rights to the bill are clearly defined as content, i.e. uses only electro-line fixation in electrical transport systems. The laws do not reach other infrastructures, such as transport, and they do not consider the greater part to be an example of further limitation of rural planning. Don't set a precedent for further limitation of rural planning. It's not a simple act, Mr. President. This is put in here because rural society has developed a very normal suspicion. Some rural communities question the high-land park bill. I disagree with those who feel it will work on organizational authority, but I respect that view because it is based on this suspicion. Don't we have a bill on the legal union? Is it not contrary to local organizational authority, against their will? Doesn't that help you with your suspicion? Yeah. Do members of Congress not regularly serve here matters that are contrary to local planning; about electrical command, southwest line, Chets Forest, the Brooklyn airport in Reykjavík, which is at the opposite of the organizational authority of rural society? Is it abnormal that the communities under it have become quite suspicious? No, President. That's very normal. Therefore, we as responsible governmental authorities should show this suspicion. There's a reason, I'm going to remind all of us that we went to this job with this bill that's done with the planning power that the generator committee is on, that's the crazy situation that created by a storm. We agreed that because of the situation, the situation, the president, due to the storm, the power outage, would be required to take special action. Do not use that condition to get some other change in your life. President. You see, it's a big deal. National Cleaning. I'm on the point that although we have some opinions about what should be done in the future, which is all right, people have different opinions, we are, as I said earlier, all doing our best here. We're having a good time here. I think it's part of the committee's opinion. Hv. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson called on last night's discussion that the case would return to a committee between 2 and 3. I'll support that request, Mr. President, and I'd like to inform them that it was specifically called after the Supreme Court. The Environment and Resource Minister would appear before the committee and explain his comments on other matters here at the council Hall. He has taken that request very carefully and is ready to appear before the committee to explain his words in this regard. President. I want to finish my case here by reminding that the committee opinion of the major section, the Senate document we're discussing right now is a legal explanation that is relevant to the payment of this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u80	Madam President. I recommend here the Committee's list of changes made from a greater part of the employment board on bill to legalize the changing of fish farms, No. 71/2008, a malnourished fish farm mass. The committee received 12 reviews and a number of visitors. The bill suggests that an officially maligned life-sized population will be allowed to be replaced by a fjord or in an ocean where fish farming is already practiced, which will then be required for a new or revised license. The distribution is made on the basis of an invitation requiring minimal prices. Life mass refers to multiples of the number and average weight of farm animals, as defined in Article 3. adapts to fish farms. An article with the bill says that according to the sentence of law No. 101/2019 it has been found that these conditions may be present in individual beaches or seas that sources from landy fish breeds have lower peak life sizes than those associated with maximum fear of distances or sea zones. This is in Arnarfjord, in Berefjörður, and in the midst of a cry of destruction. In his review of the matter, the Food Institute pointed out that the bill, in addition to its low share, is considered to be an impact on the spread of Isafjörður and AIDS, and was ruined by the six shores in total by some 16,000 tons at the end of 2020. The majority of the Agency's proposals for change. With 1 st. The bill is suggested for changes to Article 4. a The minimum amount of biomergeiers allowed to be placed in individual beachs or areas of the sea and beyond the authority of running fish farms and sources that may be given on the basis of applications for the treatment of preliminary II. The reviews gave the view that the change would be made as a temporary arrangement rather than a change in the Law mentioned above. The majority agree on that view, believing that it will achieve a clearness and can also be counted in an exhaustive way in the area to which it should be covered, as per the front consideration, i.e. Arnard fun, Berry Fjord, Faulty Fun, Ísafjörður, Osafjörður fun. At the same time, the change will make it clear that the provision is not intended to cover other future appointments. With 1 st. The bill is suggested for changes to Article 4. a The minimum amount of biomergeiers allowed to be placed in individual beachs or areas of the sea and beyond the authority of running fish farms and sources that may be given on the basis of applications for the treatment of preliminary II. The reviews gave the view that the change would be made as a temporary arrangement rather than a change in the Law mentioned above. The majority agree on that view, believing that it will achieve a clearness and can also be counted in an exhaustive way in the area to which it should be covered, as per the front consideration, i.e. Arnard fun, Berry Fjord, Faulty Fun, Ísafjörður, Osafjörður fun. At the same time, the change will make it clear that the provision is not intended to cover other future appointments. A review of the Committee presented the view that the distribution was important to protect against disease protection and to respect distances between fire areas. The majority of these views are also important when considering the distribution of malnourished biomass within the region of distribution on the basis of the new provisional principle, as well as the 10th paragraph. The law states that no application on this basis is permitted to be rejected by a Food Institute. The bill suggests that distribution is made on the basis of an tender price offering. Commenting on the matter, we noted that it was not clear how to determine the minimal value of biomarker mass for distribution. It would be important for such a decision to be taken into account by the Icelandic situation and the remuneration environment based on objective and objective criteria. The majority agree with that viewpoint and suggest a change in its content, but it also shows that it is important to look to other factors. The bill suggests the value of regulations 3mg. Section 4. a law that says that If you want to look at the amount of the oer, experience in fish farming, financial strength, guidelines that measure how an oer has worked, and information about how a candidate intends to practice the business, including Based on environmental considerations. In the handling of the case for the committee and the reviews, it was noted that it was important to consider pioneers in the areas covered by the bill. The majority agree with that view and believe that it is important to meet those who initially started to operate fish in previously unknown conditions, thus taking sides in building this sector for the benefit of the local community. So the majority suggest that, in addition to instructions 3mg. Section 4. a for evaluation of oers it should be made clear that in fish farming and other activities, the requirements of 3. mg are applicable. Section 4. a This also refers to pioneers in whom this is applicable, but to further implementation in accordance with the Regulation. When assessing the appropriate areas, taking into account the scope of the share, e.g. has suggested that the candidate enjoys priority based on experience in the construction and management of marine farms over the past 10 years in the area being offered for the distribution of biomass. The EEA pointed out that for operating fish farms, the EEA's work permit and license of the Food Agency need to be performed, as per 1.mg. Section 4. b in the fish farm law. The bill contains only a license from the Food Institute, and a greater part suggests that the distribution of biomass will be made clear to those enterprises which have the right to fish farms under the above guidelines. By recommending the distribution of malachieving biomass in provisional terms instead of changing to Article 4. a is no longer an obligation to the minister for implementation of the Regulation for further implementation of the new directive. So a greater part of the section feels that it is necessary for a minister to set up a regulations for further implementation of the new provisional regulations, including In terms of the distribution to pioneers and contributes to a change in its content. At the same time, the change leads to the specificity of the territory involved, not to be specifically updated. The law of the law agrees, so it adds up to 2nd story. The bill will be removed. Instead, it will be referred to in a provisional way that the application for a business permit following the intervention procedure under the directive should be accompanied by data on the distribution of biomass. The majority suggest that the bill be agreed with the following modification: 1st 1st par. Say, 'To the law there shall be a new law for a season, saying, It is permitted to assign officially the amount of life mass that can be allowed to be produced in Eagle care, Bereaved, Faulted, Isafjörður, Insafjörður, Insurrection and Annán, and is beyond the authority available in fish farming and information that may be provided on the basis of applications to treat temporary II. The minimum price to be set on the invitation is mandatory and should be determined on the basis of objective and grammatical precursors, which take into account the Icelandic environment and the environment. We have an assessment of the requirements of 3 mg. Section 4. a In addition to that which should be considered as pioneers in the relevant areas. The amount of life involved here will take the relative change within the distance or sea area, such as 6. b, until license is issued. No version or modification of the licenses for fish breeds to increase biomass at the cost of diffusion as required. The amount of life involved here is not made up of any other design than the distribution of these provisions. The application procedure following the intervention procedure should follow data on the distribution of biomass. The Minister gives further regulations on the distribution of biomass according to this provision for temporary purposes, including the distribution to pioneers. 2. 2.g. ... goout. Under this opinion, the writer of this journal, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, executive director of the Professional Committee, Ásmundur Friðriksson Kristjánsdóttir, Ásmundurksson, and Haraldur Benediktsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u81	Madam President. Thank you. In advance, a chairman of the Commission, the Nitentiary of Trausti's Trausti Friðbertsson. It is not surprising, then, that some changes in the law that were accepted here not long ago. Then there were comments that would have been wise to listen right away. But let it lie in between things. I'd like to ask you what. A pilot into two things. One turns to the minimum price set out in the committee opinion and the other to see if it is not necessary to define better the main course of the law, e.g. the difference between evaluation factors. In both cases, the ball is actually referred to a sea chief for setting a law on the two factors. I would have felt better about it if the General and Professional Board were to send a clearer message as to what the council saw because of the failings of the law put here and are fundamental to this change. The question to what? So the prominent speaker is: Was this the subject discussed and made a decision on the committee to limit or not to frame the minimum price better than it does? And also: Was a special decision made on the committee to have the premise as open as it is and to hand over to a seafaring minister the task of staging both these issues into Regulation?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u82	Madam President. This was a discussion taken on the committee, and perhaps it is difficult to grasp it here and discuss the exact formation of the minimum price. For this reason, there may be different reasons. There's something that just has to be evaluated in this environment. It's pointed out, and it shows up on the bill if I remember correctly, that there can be 10,000 tons of fire in some pine. There may be two parties, who may have 4,000 tons each, and then have 2,000 tons, and then they may be able to bid on it. But it's naturally very difficult to reach outside the minimum price, where it's gonna be. There may be different circumstances. It was hard to deal with that part of the Committee, how to settle it, and I think members of this meeting agree. The Inquisition is also a rather difficult concept, and we discussed it considerably in the material committee, calling for information on how we make the assessment system, foodrixes, excel documents, by making mental objects objective and other things. It can be quite complicated. A greater proportion of the committee concluded that the Ministry would solve its subsequent definition. That's the kind of material thing I can say about it. It is not simple to deal with these matters, as we know from other examples in the council's activities when we deal with thinking things objectively.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u83	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer, and I can have a clear understanding that it can be difficult to control a committee. However, as it is available in the Committee's panel of more part of the employment committees that are signed by the government alone, there are no great attempts to be of great benefit to the work of the Marine Directors and the Regulation. It is absolutely impossible to examine the opinion of the Committee on the importance of the underlying factors. So I'll take it down in the commission, with the permission of the President: The bill suggests assessment of the value of regulations 3mg. Section 4. a law that says that If you want to look at the amount of the oer, experience in fish farming, financial strength, guidelines that measure how an oer has worked, and information about how a candidate intends to practice the business, including Based on the environmental issues There are five factors to consider. Then, with the permission of a president, it goes on to say: The handling of the matter for the committee and the reviews indicated that it was important to consider pioneers in the areas covered by the bill. Under these circumstances, more of the committee takes place. This adds up the sixth assessment point. Would it not be wise to do so? A professional health committee did at least that. Any attempt to send instructions to a sea espionage minister on the best way to handle this? As the above mentioned, there is no attempt. I think that would be an improvement, because we have plenty of time left at the council, that the case would be submitted to a committee between the 2nd and 3rd. and at least Try to present these views in some way to the ground so that the Council's guidance is clearer to a sea - out minister than the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u84	Madam President. Hv. The senator traced the points we had in the opinion behind the committee, what should be taken into account. However, regarding the implementation, it was our conclusion in the greater part that the project in the Ministry Regulation would be carried out, as I said earlier. I don't have anything else to add, but there's a complicated task in this picture. This is the case, and it was our conclusion in the greater part that it would be stated in the Regulation than with the emphasis that came from the Committee and that we give special emphasis on the opinion of the Commission on the rights and that it is considered to be carefully considered in accordance with the Regulation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u85	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss an opinion of changing the bill's proposal for law on law No. 71/2008, about fish farming, about malnourished biomass. This opinion comes from a major part of the job board. The bill is an attempt to match the view of reform, as I allow myself to call it, in the final work of the bill that became legal in 2019. Yet, the work in preparing the bill had been done in broad agreement and cooperation with those in the transnational work programme since 2017. In fact, the committee flew to Norway. There, she was given a study of fish farmers by meetings and lectures. It was a very good and useful trip that allowed us to learn much from the experience of the cooks in cooking, both when things went well with them and when things went wrong, so we can learn from their experience. After that trip, it was a very successful trip, and after that, the committee joined the country and continued to work on these issues. It was a mess, as I allow myself to say it, in the last half of the bill there in the spring of 2019 that even led to that. that a deep - seated business in Isafjörg fell between ships and docks for distribution of licenses and quantities, which I am absolutely certain was not intended for the greater part when these changes were made on the bill, but were so tight that not all angles were viewed as being carried out by the consequences of these changes and what went on. There has been a meeting and searching for some way to correct this situation, but for some reason it has not been possible to do so. The bill that is now being discussed is some kind of attempt to prevent this from happening again. But that doesn't tell me that e.g. This particular company will be improved the damage, I'll tell you, it'll get some tons of it to raise it in its fish farm. I'd like to take a few points from a review from a particular company. This company is called High-Brow hf. and has fish farming at the depths of Ishafah. By permission of the president, we have a review of the Shark Bridge Corp.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: ▪ At the end of the 20th year, the employment committee of the World Council's Council published a letter that can be considered in the company's review of the above - mentioned bill. Yet, there is a witness to the work being done on the bill that became the law of 2019. However, the contents of this statement are actually not limited to the subject of the bill but to the request that a professional health committee contribute to the 2nd. suggest a change to the b-joint (II) 24 paragraph. track No. 71/2008 of fish farming It was certainly the article that led to the success of things. Then, as it happened to them, the process is attributed here. I'll reenter the High Bridge Inc., with the permission of a president: In the case of the General Assembly, several changes were made in the development of a prime minister involved a greater part of the employment committee. Among other things, the changes were in accordance with Article 23. The bill. ▪ The changes that led to the turnoff of May 20, 2018, were that it was accompanied by care that the equality of the bodies that would truly have gone to cost and work because of planned fish farming. Furthermore, it says: A greater part of the work programme for the new proposal is stated at the outset that the Committee considered it necessary to cover the b-aide (II) 24. a. where a clearer line would need to be drawn as to which applications agreed with current legislation and which applications according to b-part 24 paragraph. The adjustment proposal made by the greater part was 2nd. was also withdrawn.How can the study be treated? Then here goes on, the highest. President: The next step was not to be made, before the adjustment was made, a special study or study by the European Commission, a business committee, on how the costs and jobs of fish farming companies are divided between the preparation of a food program and the primary assessment report. In other words, there was no careful change in the arrangement. Perhaps because of insufficient time and pressure to complete a matter before the end of the council, as I said earlier. ▪ The change made by the Employment Committee on b-joint (II) 24. 3rd. this led to the Onion of the Shark Bridge Corp. lost the opportunity to get the permission of the Food Institute to increase its fire in Isafjörður about 11,500 tons, as the Society had been working on for over a year when the law of No. 101/2019 were approved.◯ In view of what I've traced here, I wish to the president that this case will be called back to the pro committee, where we can review what this bill does, for example. in the relationship I described here, and if possible, and willing to do it within the committee that what I traced here, this company, the High-Brow Inc, fell in that direction between a ship and a dock, can get relief from having almost nothing assigned to it. V.E.G. President. I'd like this case to be called back to what? Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u86	A respectable president. Well, finally, I say. Now, the Middle Class has woken up. They here speak of a mistake that was made in the legal process two years ago, a mistake that they signed. The members of the Central Committee signed this opinion without reservation. We've been on this story for a long time now, the biomass bill, on the Committee. Where are the motions of the Middle Party? Are they still out there? They haven't even appeared? If we are to recall the matter to the committee, I would simply ask: What are the suggestions? Bring them in. We've been discussing this case, and like the members of the Central Committee to be aware of it, it's very difficult to grasp the pioneers, whom all of us on the Committee wanted to do. But we're talking about territory, that's five feathers, and this needs to be in general. Shall we talk about the pioneers in Isafjörg? Should we help them? Who are the pioneers of Arnard or of the East? We must have it in general so that everyone can enjoy it. We can't put one in front of another. That's the line we have to dance on. But I call it, what are the ideas and suggestions of the Middle Party? They haven't been on the Committee yet.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u87	V.E.G. President. It was a lively speech here. I just have to say right now, at last, the Middle Party woke up. What discussion has been conducted transnational in this issue of the Committee? I haven't seen it, not very much materially. I want to point 'em. It's up to a senator that we changed our plans at the time of the last record, the one here, and the one here. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason. Perhaps the senator has forgotten. Just to be said. What I'm calling for is by getting the case back into the committee is really getting the conclusion about it, in human language, what the bill is telling us, there's a very hairy text in this bill, and then it's the review I traced here from the High Bridge to Isafra deep, whether it's possible to react to how they got out of the law in the spring of 2018. So if it happened. A senator feels that the person standing here was asleep when the members of that body wake up. But I don't think I've been asleep. More than a part of the employment committee completely cared for and for the credit for the situation. You can't blame us for this mess in the Central Bureau on the pro board. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u88	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. No, at least I thought I would. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson would have been awake all along, I realized that, and I participated in the entire discussion. But I'm calling for suggestions that must be inquisitive on how to explain this better. It's not easy to put your arms around it, like the rest of it. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason came in earlier, that we should try to define the pioneers further in order to submit it to a minister. I call upon that definition because the general definition of the pioneers exists. We'll talk about and take it in, as follows: ▪ The more part agrees with that view and believes that it is important to meet those who initially put into operation fish farming in previously unknown circumstances, thus taking the initiative in building these sectors for the benefit of the local community. Isn't that clear? [[Up front.]] This is the order of the parts we want to appear. I'm still calling for these suggestions. Why, then, did the middle - class members fail to bring an issue or an arrangement? It's not like there's been a drive through the committee at some terrible speed. If everyone had had had them, this proposal from the Central Party should be ready.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u89	V.E.G. President. This case was taken out of the issue of March 22, or something like that. I don't remember much discussion about the material things of the committee. It's all for the greater part. I was reading here from a review of this company that I mentioned, which came from 11,800 tons that they thought they would get out of it when they applied, after it became the law of 2019. Hv. paritaprevir Halla of Signý Kristjánsdóttir by that part of my speech, how we're going to react to it. That's why I'm even. calling the matter into question. The job board to try, although it would only scratch something in the back of what that company had before and to explain what it really means, and to get the partner to come to a meeting that could explain it to us members of the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u90	Madam President. I'm taking part here in 2nd. with regard to the biomass of so - called biomass, we are going to add to the discussion that was held among members of the NorthwesternHR mentioned above. All I want to say is that in the treatment of the case on the committee, there will be a change in the subject that the pioneers are looked to in a way that they do. The head of the committee, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, was careful in his background earlier. I did not sit on a professional committee at the time of the total fish farming legislation, sat on the committee in the latter part of the autumn, and thus I came to this legislation for a relatively recent time. However, I have participated in the handling of this very matter, and in many meetings, I do not recognize a lack of conversation over the matter of Congress. A professional health committee. There are two things I wanted to contribute here during the discussion. First, about the change made to the Committee on the Total Law, i.e. to the bill, which came into the Committee from the Minister, who has been called a different divorce on the bill than the secretary submitted. It may crystallize this debate about pioneers and the interests of individual companies, who started fire a long time ago and cleared the way in many ways. I'm just going to say that the change that happened then on the bill was the nature of the case, so that's why it had to ensure greater political reconciliation over the continuation of the case and the laws of the law at its time. It is not an unknown phenomenon here at the council that there is a need to communicate in order to get together on the issues presented here. The owners of a particular company mentioned here made comments on how they had left that position and no reason to challenge in any way their language, what it meant for them. However, it was clear very early that it was not an option to move to this point so called in the legislation and to respond in this way. The other thing I wanted to draw out was pretty good. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason's son in front of the Commission opinion of what were pioneers. I'm not gonna say I don't agree. paritaprevir Ólason's 32rd saying it could have been framed better. That's what we discussed on the committee. Still, I feel that we cannot ignore the fact that we are going very far in the definition of the text that says they have experience and knowledge in the area and fire up to ten years of age. There aren't too many of them in that area. But it's not just one company that's under there, and because we're dealing with national legislation, I think it's very questionable to go on that track to squeeze the ring more, so that we're not exactly in the specific legislation that serves the interests of such a person, although that business has clearly a reference to the Committee drawn out of the changes in the bill made, the specific cut. On the other hand, I look at that cut and what went on to show that in general the company has been equal in reacting and working with it. The change in the bill we're talking about right now, the biomass bill, which will be a monofocal procedure, for then these sites really need not be able to come up, that they have to come back in a certain area, may not be the least accomplished by the challenge and review from the town council of Isafjörg. It is only natural that it would come from there, since men have been moving on for a long time with this sector that is now being measured as one of the greatest growth wands of our economy today. I loved to see in the newly developed financial and economic programs that were followed by especially as to how the exporting of fuel products would be growing here and how much and how large the fire would have become to the Icelandic economy. I mention it here because we often talk about fish farming from the easy way that it's still just some sort of thing that makes you want to do it, but it's already a huge industry that's already making a lot of money. I'm not going to trace it here, Mr. Honorable President, how much this has paid for its communities, especially west of the beach. But there are also many growth projects that I am tempted to mention here too, since we have not really had the support around us so rapidly growing enough job life. That is where I am primarily using transportation in this regard. Then I'm just going to pull this thing together by saying that the more part is responding within the frameworks that it is possible to achieve a solidarity over, at least here at the council. We are in a position to look at these pioneers whom we have mentioned here, and we define them somewhat or somewhat in detail, even though this is a general approach to the subject rather than some specific solution to the subject. That's what I'm saying. I'm telling you, we're dealing with this case. The job committee, anyway after I sat in there, understood the views presented before the committee and received a sound base, so we make adjustments. A pilot has traced his history.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u91	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson. Here we go. Some two years ago, a senator entered a professional committee after the legislation was adopted here. Counts 'em out. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson that the committee made a mistake at that time, on the other hand, in the cutting point and on the other hand, that this case is now a response to a mistake, to the possibility and after the events of others, or whether this case has a completely independent life?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u92	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. All I'm going to say is what I was trying to trace into a speech, that it was that political conclusion to move the cut to the point of the bill presented by the minister and then to the committee. I'm not gonna say it was a mistake. On the other hand, we have often participated in this, those in the northwestern district, including those in the Netherlands. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason, the need to break up this matter with the inhabitants of the West, the owners of this company, and others. I'm going to go so far as to say that maybe not everyone was fully aware of these changes and how to process them. Then I'm not going to say it to the council more than anyone who had to work on the law. In other respects, whether this response is now a matter of fixing a mistake. No, I'm not gonna say it, but they're here because of me. Comments from Isafjörður, a very clear and critical town, pointed out that pioneers need to be looked to in this area. An authority traced back to the point where the troubled path would be to define a source so that it would not be a specific procedure in some way. But it was certainly the will of the Committee at its time when laws were made to look to pioneers in a certain way, even though they have not been resolved. Then we can say that here, at least, we're reacting to what went wrong and I don't think there's any further going on without us going directly on the business of some particular company.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u93	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson answered. That's what I'm talking about. A senator mentioned at the end that the council and the professional committee must be careful not to go into business with a particular company but to be a common authority, I would like to ask if. A senator can tell me if it was called by the Committee how this law changed, the bill as it is, by means of the Commission's changing proposal, to have individual companies working today, and to see if there were any debates about it at that time. The employment board called for information on how to create the entry of the surgical point in its time has affected individual companies. So I think it's better that I know what I'm doing. A senator was not a representative of a professional committee there. I am wondering if there has been another discussion about this subject that seems to have been more extensive in the committee. That's why I'm interested in asking about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u94	Mr. President. Just like what? paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason later mentioned I was not on the committee, so I do not know if any members of the committee have been aware of the impact of the application procedure. But I've asked members of the committee who were at that time, and according to them, it wasn't. Like now, we have tried to appreciate the change we are making in terms of individual companies. I think it's more beneficial not to do that, i.e. that we are not trying our suggestions on the interests of an individual enterprise. I think it's a much more honest procedure, if I may use that word, a respectable president. The word to be used in that subject can be debated. We are not evaluating the changes in the council based on the interests of the individual companies. If so, we are violating the principle we must always bear in mind when working with this body of Congress, which is a major factor in individual enterprises, that we are not trying them out of the interests of individual enterprises.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u95	A respectable president. I want this discussion to start by picking up the thread where it might be. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson left him right in this case in his later answer to me. Of course, we are in one way or another, and the day in and out, we are dealing with interests that eventually reflect on individual companies, so I think members of the Parliament are wise to call out for information and try to understand the impact of legislation. Then there's just an independent point, and it calls for the strength of the members of the committee after an incident in case the case is grown, to make decisions, but we senators are supposed to make decisions with their grueling eyes so that we have already realized the effect of legislation. In this context, it is necessary to review the legislation at the time when many felt that the council was making a mistake, and particularly with the development of the case in the case of a professional carer and the application at the cut point that took place in the value of the application procedure. It is obvious that this bill here is basically a response to the gaps left behind. I'm glad that the pro board is finishing this case and is bringing it back to the council and it's 2nd over. At the same time, I'd like to criticize how open and vague this is, at least For the two things that I specifically mentioned in contrast with the layman, there is a better understanding of how a minister can determine minimum prices and, on the other hand, a better definition of basic rights must be made of the law text, and then, in the context of the assessment factors. There is no special message in that the sixth assessment factor is added to the five already existing in the bill if no messages are included to the minister on the basis of the evaluation. And just as a review, for an answer. paritaprevir All Halla Signý's Kristjánsdóttir at the why. paritaprevir Sigurður Jónsson. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir completely misunderstands what the core point is in our criticism in this regard. I just challenge it. paritaprevir To listen to my speeches and my voice in a spirited manner to the Lord's Halla Signý. Kristjánsdóttir The Sigurður of Páll's Jónsson John below, reaching out for their message. I'd like to be glad that there's a proposal from a member of the committee that the matter will be passed on to a committee between the 2nd and 3rd. For it is quite of a matter, I believe, that a professional health service committee is trying to guide a ocean - out minister in a more thoughtful and deeper way than here is an attempt to make. As I listed in my answer to what. In the Law, there are five key points to consider when evaluating an offer. That is, first of all, the amount of an offer, second, experience with fish farming, third, financial strength, fourth measure that measure how a donor has practiced his business, and fifthly information about how a candidate plans to practice his business, including, Based on environmental considerations. Then there is the point about being looked upon as pioneers in the areas where the bill takes place. There's something I'd like to mention in particular because an agent on the pro board, okay? paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, responded. paritaprevir Sigurður Jónsson back there. A senator seemed to try to state that the procedure would have to be so general that it could not be applied to certain areas of the country. But it's just assumed in the bill. The committee noted that, on the treatment of the matter, by permission of the president, it was important that pioneers be looked upon in the area where the bill takes place. It's just in the bill talking about a certain area. Areas are here, if I just read out of the commission: Eagle Fjord, Berry Fjord, Faulting, Flirty Fun, Icefjording, Icefjording, Of course, certain areas are being discussed. This is not so open legalization and free of linking with a certain area that we are here looking for the city's fun to be under or the Hunsafjörður. I just wanted to keep this going. I just didn't quite understand the point of view. paritaprevir Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristoffsdóttir set out earlier. So I'll only come back to the minimum price, you know, in the bill it's assumed that the minimum price will be applied, as 3 mgr. Section 4. a The fish farms, which then suggests a change, indicate that minimal prices should be determined on the basis of objective and chemical precursors, which take into account Icelandic conditions and the remuneration environment. But it's just not a question of exactly what this means. It would be a great improvement if the minimum price would be more objectively and objectively defined instead of hiding a minister as broadly as possible. I don't mean to keep this far today, but for the pioneers'rights, it'd be no doubt better if it was more defined in the law. Various references, guidelines, and couples can be considered in this regard. But as it is suggested, with this sixth assessment point added only to the five already available - there is no principle but to the point. The employment committee believes that this sixth assessment factor should enter theulia with the five already existing assessments. That's what we need. A professional health committee sending a clearer message to a marine emissary. For example, it is totally unclear how to evaluate two options in which one bid offers a large amount of money and no business history in the area, but the other offer is made by a person who has worked in the region for a long time but who offers a lower amount of money. There are things like this that I just think a professional committee might think of, get the most logical opinion. If, as described earlier, the overall issue is as settled as it has been. Yeah. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir described earlier, and if not all of the members of the committee were the members of the committee when the case went to the 2nd. --with or without a warning, I don't remember -- but as far as this committee's concerned, there's no one here except the members of the government, no one. Either this suggests that there was a conflict in the committee or that the matter was taken up in some hurry, so representatives of the smaller section have not felt that they would have an incorruption to reveal their views. But I'm glad there's an opportunity here between 2 and 3rd. I hope so. The job committee is eager to give the highest. A seafarer's stricter direction is made in the current committee and wishes for a top priority in bringing the matter to a better place than it has become.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u96	Madam President. I hereby recommend a greater part of the employment board on bill for the review of salmon and trout law, No. 61/2006, minority protection, etc. The committee has discussed the matter and received four reviews in connection with it. We also discussed this subject during the past session, so it has been in the committee now for two sessions and much discussion on this subject. The bill suggests changes in salmon and trout law, No. 61/2006, who aims primarily to strengthen the minority protection in a hunting society with special guidelines on the value of meetings. A similar administrative bill was submitted to the last legislation. It was introduced in pioneer conferences by the government on Iceland's Web as well as through the traditional reporting process of a professional network. According to a bill in this article, the comments received by the commission suggested a different approach in order to achieve the same objective of my share's protection. The Ministry had in the process of bringing it into contact with the National Fishing Association and Fishing Room. The changes that have been made since the first bill was submitted particularly to change the protection programme to a smaller extent than the previous bill required for maximum importance. On the other hand, in social meetings and on the other hand, there are new recommendations to address unauthorized projects and act against the law. It is suggested that, under certain circumstances, seafood rights can be right for improvement as a result of the decision taken at social gatherings. The review of more than one section of the Committee and the decision-making of the Fish Room. With 1st. a-arms 2. The bill is suggested to add a new law on not being allowed to make a decision that is intended to bring in a particular group of members or other less acceptable interests at the expense of other members or society. According to one report, there is a guidelines on good management practices that must be considered to be consistent with, including, the following: I-Service Code 50. gr. and is known to include Social rights, as 70th degree. Act on private partnerships and the 95th st. the law about partnerships. Therefore, according to the wording of the law, it is intended to protect all members of the community as well as the community itself, not just a smaller portion of the members for decisions that can raise members of the community or others less inaccessible interests at the expense of other members of the community. Each member of the community can apply charges at 43 G's. The law, if there's a disagreement on the legitimate decision taken at a meeting of hunting society or social management. A fellow goes straight to Fish Room, which, according to 43rd. The law is given to determine the legality of decisions taken at the meeting of a hunting society or of a social management. In his review of the case, the Fish Office points out that there may be a better solution to this issue in the courts, especially in view of the fact that the two months granted to the case are in line with the mismanagement of the exercise of speech rights. On the other hand, if a Fish Office is assigned to determine such differences, it suggests that if requested data and information are not provided within the time frame, they are authorized to use a day's judgment. The reviews of Iceland's Farmers and the National Association of Fishing Associations also describe concern that a fish lab can work within the set time range. The majority of the material has an understanding of this point of view, but in view of its underlying interests, it is considered that such differences are resolved as soon as possible, according to 2 mg. 43. g. to complete a case within two months of the release of the charges. Preservation of fishing rights, increased items, and rights. With verses 2 and 3. a-arms 2. The bill is proposed to change the 40th grade. That's the law for ordering hunting rights. A new arrangement will be added to agreeing at least 2/3 parts of a vote if you are asked to reduce the demand in the particular fishing area, unless the changes are negligible. Such decisions must be based on objective viewpoints, i.e. In terms of self-sustaining and fish-based grounds, or further contributing to the aims of the law. A local fishing partner makes a comment to the wording of the wording of the word, suggests that it is unduly limited, and suggests that further approval of more parts is needed to reduce much of the fishing process. With a 5. The bill is suggested that a new paragraph be added to 49. g. The law, in which the importance of hunting society's decisions is reinforced by objective views, suggest benefits if a hunting society's decision leads to harm to the seafood rights. Here's another rule of 2 mg. 49. g. which assumes an improvement if the decision of the hunting company causes certain fishing rights to harm others more than others. The new rule, then, is to include if the damage to marine rights has been demonstrated for e.g. not using natural gain from their benets because of social meetings decisions. With 2 st. The bill is added to the new directive that a greater proportion of votes are needed to make provision for a carer at a hunting company that has a minimum of 30% votes or to a party associated with it. It considers that under certain circumstances it may be necessary for a member of a fishing club to take care of a fishing rights. Though it is reasonable to believe that the greater part needs to be agreed on by such a decision. The greater part suggests that the greater part of such a decision is consistent with the viewpoint on the protection of my parts when important decisions are made in the community. Fishing companies have this role according to 1st. Thirty-seven. The law to ensure that the growth and maintenance of fish stocks and their sustainable use but also to ensure that fishing or fishing is divided between partners according to their rights. As a result, the use of the fish populations of cohesion partners is expected to benefit from sustainable development and to take the more part under the importance of explaining the rules of using the important benets involved. Then it's a law of value. With the first trial verse 6. it is decreed that the law will take effect immediately. Then the second law of the law states: 'The decrees of Regr. valid reject or complete implementation prior to the validation of these laws. An article with the bill says that the article does not need an explanation, but it does have a 1st paragraph. The bill is suggested that day-to-day be used by someone who does not comment. Thus, there is authority to set aside day - to - day fines to force right conduct, or e.g. to operate in or in hunting water without support in the law will be removed and the environment restored. The changes made by the majority are about the Committee's orders, i.e. 1.mg. Section 3. With a factor of 3. The bill is submitted to a 1st-mg change. - Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. The law says that the Commission's orders are to the NTSB, in order to replace the Supreme Court with the Supreme Court with one committee. In January 2021, according to Article 1, the minister appointed a new committee for four years. - Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. Instead of allowing a minister to revise a committee in the implementation of the law, a greater part is provided to increase the provision of temporary regulations requiring that the Commission submits to its appointed time. Other forms of the greater part are technical and are not meant to have material influence. The majority suggest that the bill be agreed with the following changes: 1st 1st matter 4 mg. a-arms 2. Puts it this way: The Food Committee, according to VII. section 3 and 4 will resolve any differences. 2. Instead of the word "sected" to a accuser of the b-join 4. Come on: make a accuser. 3. After Section 5. If there is a new article, as follows: There will be a provisional addition of a new arrangement, as follows: Committee of Assessments appointed by Ministers in January 2021 on the basis of 1st. - Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. but his authority without blemish throughout his time of command, as stated in the 1st chapter. - Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. Under this view, more than a part of the employment committee is thought to be the one being written by the Njáll Saturt Friðbertsson, Director of the Committee, Lily Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Friðriksson and Haraldur Benediktsson. At the end, I'd like to say so, top dog. President, this is a very difficult case, a big and important one, which is actually based on becoming an age - old law against an important issue. We have tried in all this process to handle this matter very carefully in order to protect the important spirit of the legal entity placed in place for a century ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u97	Madam President. I present my opinion on the bill being discussed, on changing the law of salmon and trout fishing where the focus is on minor protection. We're the two of us who are doing this, representing the Central Party at the moment. Work committee, for what? paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson. I'd like to say in general that the salmon and trout law is in a code of songs that have a particular significance of a particular kind. It's a law that rests on an old foundation, like a sledgehammer. paritaprevir Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson finished his entropy speech. I agree with him, and I want to express the attitude that such laws, which may not be on points or subjects where people are divided into different political parties, need to be treated with great caution and with respect. Then in particular, I'd like to say that I don't seek to see that the changes in such laws are made as the vastest reconciliation and with the greatest support in the Council. It is attributed here to my opinion that in two different councils, this case has undergone a drastic change, at least twice, and nothing but good to say. This matter is delicate and difficult to handle. However, in view of the changes that have taken place since the last legislation, we will draw attention to the fact that the bill, as it is already established, has not been presented in a confidentiality. That's a lot of change. Then I'd like to mention that it is this way that only representatives of the government are represented in terms of more things. I want to be in my place, and I think it's safe to say on behalf of us by the Central Party of the Committee that we thought the job was fully carried out when the committee was taken out of the committee, as it is called in the Generalist Republic, because they had recently come up with a view to the meeting of the Committee from visitors who could say that the harmless might have been given more discussions at the level of the Committee. Then I'm referring specifically to the comments made by the Aarhus Institute of Fishing, one of the largest fishing companies in the country. We make it a subject of our minor aluminium that in this discussion and, in a very powerful way, at the meeting of the Committee, a very serious comment is made on a 5. The bill. I can't trace it, it's done a lot of detail in our minority mind, what's playing on the relationship, what interests exist, but we, as the crew of the smaller parts, would have felt good reason to discuss these views more on the committee. Then there's another subject I wanted to do, and that's 3rd. The bill suggests changing the rules of the Commission's orders to the Committee of Assessments. Then I'm talking about the bill, not the change in the size of the part, which was explained here well by the head of the greater part earlier, but I'm making myself a subject of the proper conditions and every candidate for the review board. According to the current law, an assessment committee is appointed three agents. The secretary appoints one without a form and the Supreme Court appoints another, and they both meet appropriate criteria for the office of the state judge. Then a third man's hunting partner is named by the National Union. However, here is a bill making a suggestion that the Supreme Court requires that a person be appointed by the National Institute of Research, and it appears to have fallen completely from the conditions in the current law that these two meet appropriate criteria for being regional laws. Since membership in a fishing society is legal, much demands must be made for those who serve as committees given various tasks and who are also entrusted with new projects with the bill presented here. Hence, it is difficult to see motives or motives by making adjustments that are involved in weakening the proper requirements for being on this committee. In the memory of the section, we believe this proposal is in Article 3. the bill is not fully supported. That's why we have what we need. paritaprevir (b) How did the Sigurður Páll Jónsson about the change he made? gro, as it shows in the bill, i.e. a-her party, which includes what I have now traced, falls away from the bill, and that there will be no restrictions on those who take this committee, and that the Supreme Court continues to appoint one man, not a Marine Research Institute. I allow me to reiterate the view that it is important to change important laws like these to be made in a far - reaching harmony and, with the most broad support at the General Assembly. Mr. President. I wish for it in view of what has been presented here that the matter will be taken back at the moment. Work committee between 2 and 3rd. to discuss the points I have made here as a subject and as a result of other events. I'm going to let me finish my case by expressing the hope of making our suggestion. paritaprevir The Sigurður of Páll Jónsson's son, that the proper requirements for an order in a committee of assessment will be accepted in the field of the employment committee. I allow myself to hope in the light of the reasons we're talking about, i.e. to become a member of a fishing club is mandatory, and it is important that adequate legal security is assured in the treatment and treatment of the cases at the centre of the Commission, that the Committee may unite in the fall from Article 3. in the bill that assumes a change in this, which we believe is not an unnecessary suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u98	Madam President. I choose to participate in the second. the issue of minority protection in hunting communities. I just want to reflect briefly on these matters, since I agree with their comments. Councilmen who have spoken before, leaders of the majority and minorities, about the importance of this legislation and its value. In 1923, legislation is first established in this field. The source of this legal counsel that we are talking about today is from that time. And why was this done? I think it's necessary that we discuss this change today in relation to the main purpose of the law from that time. I have sometimes said in speech and literature that I find the legislation on the use of hunting hills to be one of the most important environmental laws and some of the first environmental laws we put on the land, such as the protection and survival of the fish stocks discussed in these laws, salmon and trout. In the 1920's, conditions began to result in the buying of land and fishing rights from the ground, collecting the land, selling it back, and maintaining the fishing rights and water waters of salmon fishing primarily in independent holdings. The legislators back then, 1923, were greatly blessed with responding to this development, so that this industry or this benefiting could grow in support and support of rural living. It is the other spirit of the legislature, except to grasp the protection and utilisation of the salmon and trout strain, i.e. that the usefulness will become a force in rural areas. I think it's one of the most important legislation in the area where we start considering how to secure the growth and maintenance of communities in Iceland. Then, when we look at the property rights and the context of it since then, there has been a slight pull on it in this relationship, in which people are taken into fishing companies, they find that there is association on the use and management of salmon fishing and the use of these benets, which are not all pleasing to themselves and not yet to this day. And there's still a debate about this. Now it may be that those who have bought land and who simply want to be at peace with their guests, and they themselves enjoy watching the salmon leap into the river and up the waterfalls in their own country. There will be talk that will no doubt get louder in the years ahead. However, the main purpose of the legislators to support agricultural communities or to support rural communities is not to hide. I can mention, for example. The estimates made by the European Union on the value of these markets for farm income in the individual regions of the country that have shown that this can become a major part of the industry or the income of the legal and law - owners, and all the streets since then and as these innovations have increased in value. I'm not going to talk about the interest and experience fishers enjoy fishing in rivers and lakes but about the value of this use to support earth's habitat. Indeed, in the regions where I know the best of what it does, it has been a firm place in the settlements, in the innovations, and in these legislations that make humans stand together on the use of these benets. This vast amount of money has been used to build up on earth. That is why it was not long ago that the Supreme Court specified the very main purpose of the law in a court of law to which he made an old dispute over whether the fishing court had been handed over by certain lands and thus taken away from the farm. This is recently confirmed in the court of Supreme Court. You could say that the basis for this bill we're discussing today is a little bill that I and I have. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason proposed as senators a few years ago on a minority protection in hunting communities. It may also be to react to the frequent spirit or to change circumstances in rural areas, where we have seen that law - abiding people were living in hunting communities where land management had moved out of the region. It is the main driving force behind the bill we are discussing today to ensure a certain minority protection so that no more things can be taken into account for the benefit of what is being done without men being able to build up. On the other hand, there are some guidelines in the legislation and I think they're extremely important, and I don't hear that we argue about it, we who have participated, and those prominent men who have spoken here, about this fundamental purpose. I think that when we gather the terms of Congress that we have taken in this season to deal with the changes that are being made in rural areas, with the development of property farms, it becomes evident that we have failed at all in a way that we are trying to recover from our rural communities, the agricultural communities, and to resist the undesirable development of my own intelligence which may be followed by the survival of land will be very monotonous and the weaknesses of our rural communities because it is the complex that is the most important thing in itself. Perhaps, in a certain way, an apartment is much more important than possession and property may not be the same weight, but these are all things that need to be played together. This is the root cause of our discussion today, and this is the response of the legislatator to protect this first law's main purpose from 1923. With regard to the bill we're discussing today, just like what we're talking about. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Isleusustsson, in the history of his minority mind, has been carrying on this task for some time. There have been a number of editions of this minorityal protection, and it can be said that the committee had other issues to consider, including complex solutions, and the delicateness of entering the rights of humans in this way. What is now available to us in this council hall is quite clear and simple in the setting of clear guidelines for what must be viewed so that the lesser part can raise its hand to its head. Then there are rules on how to process them. There are then other matters in the legislation on salmon and trout fishing that will undoubtedly continue, even though we make this change today and will make this matter afterwards. Where it is. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Ísoffassson referred to the Commission and to the role of the committee, I can in a certain way agree that it may take longer to examine the role of the Committee of Assessments. Has she become too loaded with administrative duties? Has it been given too extensive a task? I think the step we're taking today with this bill is protected from that material. But it can be, and it can be a good reason. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Isusfsson here refers to a member of the Committee of Assessment committees, although I may not feel that he was in danger of speaking in his speech, at least the chairman of the committee is doing this fitting work. I would also like to stress that it is not just anyone who knows the most about these committees. There's no coincidence in a menu committee, and there's no coincidence behind it. It has always been, and will continue to be a problem, so that people will live up to the responsibility that truly needs to be in this important role that the Commission must take care of at any given time that is being resolved by debates about the activities of these laws, such as registrations and such things, if I know the right thing. A respectable president. I just wanted to frame it here in short sentences what was the root of this case today and relate it to the legislature decision of 1923. We are still dealing with this legislation for protection, growth and the continuation of the vulnerable communities in Iceland, so that the interest and consumption of these important benets and enormously valuable benets from the use of salmon and trout fishing will continue to be for development in rural areas. This is a careful step towards my knowledge. We could certainly have 63 opinions in this council how far we should go in these matters. But this I think is a very important step. We have found that in recent years, the general and the political debates are concerned that people are concerned about the integration of property in Iceland. It is primarily on earth that has the benefits we discuss here. It is not that I know the same problem up there with land and their collection into narrow holdings that do not have such advantages. All of this, however, should be taken seriously. I think after all, the lawgiver is taking the necessary step at this time. Then there are other circumstances and other viewpoints that need further work.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u99	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson for an excellent speech and historical explanation for the development of this case and how the times can change from 1923 to 2021. Soon there are 100 years, and things have changed at that time, and things have changed since I was young and now I am not very old. I'm a stockbroker, and I remember it when people had salmon fishing economists and made a lot of money from it and a lot of games. Then it was actually bought up, and the times changed a lot, and it's more and less all fishing now. I decided that the senator was talking about the changed circumstances and all of that, and now this matter has been being discussed in the Committee for a while, much about visitors, and people are throwing this thing between them. This is an extremely delicate matter, a minority protection, and it seems to each person as a means of understanding. My question to why. Can the senator imagine a long time before we have to take this matter back up? He said it was a rather careful step. Would the senator want to take a larger, more specific step, or would he accept the situation as it is at this stage?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u100	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll Jónsson's Sigurður over the counter, and he can also testify to how the printing of salmon in the urban region has changed over the years, which may now indicate the development of innovation on these benefits. I'm also going to state that although I mentioned the collection of land as the basis for the legislation of 1923, by nature it was not the worst owners there were. They started by buying and making peace at the time, at least in one case I know quite well to the west of Snæfells. I don't think I can answer the question. So, the senator, when I think the law needs to be taken back in view of the changes we're discussing here. The balance of this process is that we have the law text so that it did not depend on what we can call minority isolation. It is the balance art. In recent years, for example, a senator and others on a professional committee have been dealing with, not setting matters up to the extent of the change in the part of such power that he can keep everything in irons and in an abnormal way in the strength of the smaller part of the possession of more part of the fishing companies. I have to say, in answer to a question why. Senator, I don't see when we need to film it. On the other hand, the answer is: Yes, I think that the step we are taking now is the step we need at this stage, and I am very pleased with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u101	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yes, it is difficult to look into the crystal ball that tells us what the future holds. But it is true that this is a delicate matter, and that is exactly what many delegates and reviews have to say about this matter, this balance that is difficult to find at ballansera when we are getting a good result in this case, minor protection. I know we what we're doing. A senator agrees that earth is wide and wide around the country, especially those where salmon are fish rivers, or fishing rivers, is also new. That's what worries people today when talking about a gathering of land along the way of protecting hunting rights or association over these years, this water rights. I have no question to the senator. I have to thank the Committee for a good cooperation in this case. Me and what. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson suggests a change in the review board, and there is really not much conflict in it. Rather, it just seems that we need to be in the same way that came out in his language. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u102	Mr. President. I decided to take advantage of my right to a later answer, although a question was not addressed to me. I agree with what. A senator when he says it's a balance between issues. I was in, and I say this amazingly often in the General Assembly, a second job 2004, was president of the Iceland Farmer Association at the time of a revision of the legislation that had been largely unchanged since 1923. Then it was the equilibrium, as I understood the discussion at the time, I'm not going to say that it was a perfectly correct understanding, this strong intervention to the duty of a party to become a member of a hunting society, a delicate object. That's why I think that every time we talk about legislation and change it, we'll have to remember how much intervention is in the property rights. But there is still much freedom in possession of Iceland's farms, and I think it is important that we maintain it and the freedom to use the gifts of nature and the benefits of the earth, even though we have established rules about them. All freedom must also be met with responsibility, and the responsibility is to walk about this precious gift that nature gives of responsibility. I'd rather tell other nations, at least because I've participated in a conversation with farmers in our neighboring countries, in which we have managed to preserve this fish species, salmon, well. In fact, we have gone so far as to promote it in recent years and have even cultivated new ones. The question is again: When is a fish farm, and when is it a natural condition? But I agree with what. A senator and would like to say: At any given time, we can agree on the value of the legislatator, but we must be very careful about it so that we are not inclined to lean on that subject so that the harmony oversees the matter will shine beyond the word. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u103	A respectable president. I bring here an opinion of changing proposals from the employment board on bill for the legislation on the change of soil law, No. 81/2004, simple rulework, protection of agricultural land, information obligations, etc. We received a number of visitors for the committee in this case, and there were 18 reviews on the subject. The Committee's review states: The bill suggests some changes in land laws in order to simplify the national rules and administrations, including that the obligatory ministries will be dismissed to accept the changed land management of agricultural areas and, instead, be advised of the obligation to better care for agricultural interests in the construction of an organization. It is suggested that the land be divided in terms of potential for breeding, that the premium of the inhabitants be strengthened, that the terms of Article 10. b on the collection of information and their sharing for the needs of protocol 10. a. The required minister for the access of certain rural planning programmes is removed. With paragraphs 2 and 3. The bill is suggested to eliminate regulations that make it necessary for a minister to change the land use of agrienvironments or to confirm land trades. Instead, local legislation will be strengthened as a basis for development of agricultural planning and protection. For the Committee it was held that instead of agreeing with local policy decisions, where complex opinions about country division and the desired perspective are developed, a better chance of strengthening the Ministry for decision making on the basis of a land policy for agriculture. In the handling of the case for the Commission it was observed that in fact the Ministry has not been responsible for evaluating the issues presented and considering the evaluation of rural organizations in decisionmaking. With the proposed change, a community planning authority is respected as soon as management is simplified. In general, the European Union's review of rural society describes a positive attitude toward the subject of the bill. However, the relationship is considered to be the law of the bill on agri-aggregation of agricultural nations to include unnecessary burden on rural areas, with related costs and criticisms that no financial benefits have been made to rural society. The Commission has an understanding of these opinions of the Union, but it points out that the Ministry called attention to the management of the situation that there is no new obligation, since there is already a geologic law to sort agrienvironmental land. In addition, the Ministry noted that the bill includes the reduction of rural activities in agriculture, which have a beneficial impact on rural society. The Commission, under the treatment of the situation, has then been identified that there is in general not a relative amount of additional cost at the expense of rural planning. Then the Commission points out that with the bill it is suggested that a minister be required, in cooperation with the legislators, to provide instructions on how to classify agrienvironmental land in a major structure, which was previously required to allow a minister to be such a publication, as stated at 55 st. The law. The instructions include: aims to facilitate rural development and protection of agricultural countries in the preparation of main planning and other programmes. The Commission calls attention to the fact that while the case was being treated for the Committee, the Ministry, in cooperation with the Organizational Institute and the University of Agriculture, provided guidelines on agriculture systems, including: taking into account earth's food safety and objectives This counsel was presented to us on the committee in the treatment of the matter. With a section four. The bill is suggested to strengthen the 10th paragraph. b on the collection of information and their sharing for the needs of protocol 10. a. The report of the Tatta notes that neither 10 is available. b Earth law or bill require special confidentiality on the information and data given to the governor or on the basis of the arrangement. According to a review published by the Ministry of Presidency, the Ministry believes that the instruments there are sufficiently responsible for the use of information on the basis of Article 10. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... A special obligation to remain silent is not necessary to achieve that goal. With reference to this, the Committee does not consider the tax indication to be a reason for changing the subject of the bill. So I'll review the Commission's new proposal: With a c- team 1st par. The bill is suggested that the number of trees in the forest be grown in 20 mg. 2.g. The law goes away, but there are definitions of the terms culture or cultivated land in the sense of the law. One report on the bill says that most people realize that trees are not cultivated in the same sense as tuna and seeds. It does not take a stand against forestry, which often takes place in agricultural areas with good results as sheltering, but the change is primarily designed to reflect that forestry is now a special system of land use by order. The reviews and comments of the visitors to the committee expressed concern that such a change in deforestation of a cultivated land was uninhabiting the concept of forestry. The view that forestry was generally considered for agricultural purposes was presented, and such growth is often added to traditional agriculture. The Commission points out that, as explained by the bill, there are various programmes on agricultural planning. According to a strategological principle, forestry is a special land use category called ◯ forestry and land - healing area (U.S.) in which a community is obliged to act in the main organisation particularly to identify forestry and land healing in agricultural areas. The committee agrees that with the bill it is not being suggested to repair forestry. Rather, it is the focus of the development of a new country as a agricultural country, according to local planning policies. In addition, the Court calls forestry as a common agricultural policy, and the changes proposed by the bill will not change it, even though national policies will be established. Therefore, the committee proposes to remove the directives of the C-type 1st paragraph. who say that forestry should not fall under the definition of culture or cultivated land, in other words, that forestry should be kept in there. The reviews and the Committee presented a view that if the bill is approved, it is desirable to postpone the implementation of the law. The Commission has an understanding that rural society needs space to deal with and suggests that the execution of the law will be postponed until July 1, 2021. In other respects, the changes made by the Committee are technical and are not meant to have material influence. The Commission suggests that the bill will be accepted with the change that has already been attributed to the above. I'm going to request that the matter be called between 2 and 3. to the Work Road Committee, where there has been a follow-up report on this bill from the European Union of rural society, where it is concerned with the Ministry's position on the regulations of the Earth's law, it already includes the classification of agrienvironmental countries. The relationship disagrees with this, but it follows a memo that reviews the issues of the relationship. Therefore, the employment committee agrees to bring the matter back to the Committee to discuss this more fully, and I'm here to do so. So I've come to an end.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u104	Mr. President. Farming is a complex matter and is mindful of many matters when it comes to legalization. I'd like to say a few words about them and show in a way that's complicated. We live in the country where our basic resources are relatively few compared with many other nations. They depend heavily on water, on biological bodies, on water, water for consumption, running water for electricity production, and even on water or its use. Then there's the minerals. They are few, mainly building materials. And finally, what we are actually discussing in the agricultural discussion, that is, of course, the soil that is productive in Iceland but that has disappeared or is not well. So what we're actually talking about and putting laws on is a kind of resource-based bitch that touches one of the few basic resources in the country. After being on the environment and transport committee, I've been thinking about the scope of laws and regulations of agriculture. I see an overlap with a lot of laws, especially when it comes to the protection of this resource. Of course, it is important to sort agri-gri-gri-land, because it is a basis for the protection called on along with the development of some of the approved standards. This project is partly handled by rural society, even to a large extent. The government comes in there as well as the expert agencies and the economists itself, and then, of course, the common people who need access to land, even though it may be suitable for farms or is already cultivated, I'll just name forests. So the classification is important. I'll get her in later. These laws come primarily from the protection of agri-land, and changing the law is vital for 16 - year - olds. The earth's law is being changed. 81/2004, which is done in a number of ways by means of this bill and all the good things to say. Aggressive agricultural definition has been very traditional for us, it hardly takes to explain it. We are usually talking about farming in the soil, this important resource, either outside or inside: It is a flower or a food. Since then, forestry has infiltrated the last few decades. In fact, however, questions arise in this traditional definition. It's weld, I mean, in other than normal soil. It has become high - tech culture in climatic development, where high living areas are being built and using nutrients instead of soil. It is the product of living organisms other than plants. It's also the type of culture that needs land, and it's often on a land I would even call a farm. Then I am referring to algae and then to fish farming on land. The land's fishing industry has been on the move and will remain on the offensive, with no reason to refer to anything other than what has been going on in the Elf. So I ask simple questions such as, " Which of the things I was talking about fall into agriculture? ' Why don't we take this whole way and add a standard definition and have it inside? I'm going to leave the answers by what? A Senate world and don't take them here. Mr. President. I've mentioned the key concept sorted before. Agrienvironmental group is part of the projects included in this bill and is already in the process of sorting. It is mainly stratified by agricultural land quality by terms of description, i.e. whether or not it is suitable, etc. Then there is a category according to the culture potential, a sort of class of use. I think it's very traditional. And because I allowed myself to ask questions about a different type of agricultural equipment, the usual question is, Do I need to sort agrienvironmental countries in terms of other standards? We can talk about, for example. protection category. Well, there are only 6% of the land that is believed to be productive, there are 600,000 acres [600,000 ha]. We're talking about protecting this country. But there may be different kinds of protection. There may be classes where land does not have to be protected from any type of breeding, no ecosystems to be protected. But there may also be a breeding land to be protected by ecology or some nature mine or such. So it's a matter of whether this 6% does not have to be classified to some degree in terms of protection. A country can also be classed with regard to economic standards, which include it in terms of how it is suitable for the export of food, which is a special category, the export value which is so closely linked to innovation. Such a class would be possible. The classification can also be considered based on safety issues. How do we secure food, not food safety, but food security? And how do we guarantee some or all security? How to ensure public safety, i.e. That it's a healthy meal? Consider, too, this matter. And the climate itself, the capacity for carbon binding. Is this part that can infiltrate agrienvironment schemes? I mention it all here because this classification is the basis for protection, as I said before. We have shown that agrienvironment schemes cannot be changed. There may be changes in both the decrease and the enlargement. We know that urban areas are growing in Iceland and that is where farming is. We're returning wetlands. They can also walk on cultivated ground. However, agricultural development is possible. It will prove true, for example. in the fields surrounding Gunnar'shol, where the desert has been transformed into a agricultural land. It is also down in the islands, near the land of land, where land has been first converted into wetlands and then into vegetation that would be suitable for farming. So it is possible to expand these 6% that is considered breeding in Iceland and either work against shrinking or simply expand the country and increase the number of themes. I really want it to come out here. But I'm not going to do a multibubble about the bill myself. Agrienvironments are complex. That's what I was going to say in this short talk, and I was thinking about what we could call out for. My purpose in developing this is to suggest that a group of workers on the behalf of more than one Ministry will be established, covering the overlap of the earth and other agriculture laws, covering the overlap of geologic and other laws that can therefore protect or otherwise, and of all sorts of policies that have been carried out particularly during this government, let's say, food policy and innovation policy, and other things, as well as further legislation and legislation. Even if this calls for even more laws or simple laws, we can make it happen. That's what I had in mind when I arrived on a speaker's chair. Mr. President. It's a remarkable settlement we've been discussing here, protection, classification and the use of agricultural land. I'm not going to retrace it, and I'm going to make it clear that I support this bill and the work I do. A professional health committee has put it in it and thus covered my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u105	Mr. President. Before I recommend the bill, I'd like to say that there's been a lot of conjugal compression in the fishing waters in the last few decades. The largest of these types are more than half of the quathane, and 20 the largest is more than 70% of the quathane. Added to this is the possession of these developers in other preparations. More than 20 years ago, legal programs were specifically approved to counteract the conglomeration of markets considered harmful, especially because of the importance of fishing for Icelandic national farming. Too strong the authority of a few people over the fishing resources meant that they had more power in society than healthy would, and their position would be too strong against governments; teamwork would prevent competition and prevent needed renewal. In that case, compression can directly work against national economy, especially if the individual is not able to create the most valuable resources from the resource. A move between the settlements turns out to be harmful to rural communities, and a move between deforestation groups could lead to less deforestation. The law has not achieved its purpose. As they have been interpreted, one party may possess a 12% quathane, and thus another 49.9% share in all the other enterprises, which possess 88% of the remaining population. Thus, one individual can share in over half of the quatans each year assigned. Clearly, this interpretation of the law promotes compression and thus runs contrary to the spirit of the law. Synchronization results in a poor structure, an increased system-based risk, and may result in monoconversion. The large rural areas here are, in fact, jointly fired and agree on fishing, processing, and selling products. It is essential to counteract such compression and to make big companies so big that their power and their social impact can be harmful, that their impact on political and political decisions can work against public interest. The law must be revised, and it must be done immediately, thus preventing further compression or the current interpretation of the law. Unpredictable examples can easily be looked at the development of a financial market regarding when members are linked and what is part of a real authority. This target has been reduced, and it has recognized the situation in which members are in if they have significant influence in companions. A new law on the registration of real owners represents a 25% direct or indirect part of property that can be considered related or considered to be a real owner. All that information is legally available to the public. Mr. President. It was in this spirit that this bill was written, which I now recommend, and which has the fun numbers of being a 51st case on a threshing floor. 51th at the 151st legislature. The bill suggests changes to fish control laws, No. 116/2006, the law's definition of what is included in the terms "connected persons" and "real control' to be further defined. The bill aims to implement the Commission's proposal for improving the control of the fish resources produced by the Management Board for marine and agricultural development on December 30, 2019. Topical management included ..."to respond to the information provided in the European Commission for review of the Marine Monitoring Agency, which is responsible for the compression of the Agency's resources. - I'd like to shoot it in here, Mr. President, that it was after the news show Hiccup, which reminds me that was the fall of 2018, that I decided to write a report request and ask for the assessment of the follow-up role of Fish Lab, not only for compression, but also for other monitoring of the resource, such as the removal and weight gains. It was this report on Kingdom Review, on Fish House surveillance, which is the basis for continuing work. The official was then assigned to the task management board, which was assigned to respond to indications in the administration of Government Re-examination on Fishing Room surveillance. Following a report by the task management board, a marine economist and agri-gri-gricultural minister published a bill based on its findings. When that bill was my recommendation now, the bill had the highest value. A recently recommended sea manager is not acting up and is now being discussed and paid off on a professional committee. I'm glad that I'm going to be able to recommend this matter right now, and it's going to work with the professional committee. Then the committee can work on both this bill and the bill at the top. A minister who hopefully will be useful to the Commission to make adjustments to the Minister's bill, as it will be, in my opinion, both 13 and 14. The laws continue to blurred, so it is impossible for the Fish Lab to monitor related sources and make sure that the target is not exceeded by 12%. 13th. a law on the control of fishing is about the maximum collection of fish vessels owned by individuals, persons or lawyers, or owned by linked parties. Since the first legalization of maximum resources, the labor share has become a fiscal compression and is now going to ten of the largest power companies in the country, with more than half the interest share. At the same time, marine sources have declined rapidly. The fishing year 2005/2006, which had decreased to 382 in 2019, was 946 at the beginning of the fishing year. The definition of the term linked to parties is based on that persons are linked directly or indirectly to more part of the stock or stock of the other enterprise or have a greater proportion of voting rights. Thus, a person like me may be able to cross into my entrance here with the maximum permit of the labor sector according to 1 mgr. 13th par. but in addition, up to 49. 99% share in other enterprises which carry sector share under law. It is evident that such ownership is contrary to the laws' aims as well as to which the definition is inconsistent with the definition of real owners under the law on the control of money theft and terrorist funding, No. 140/2018. So it's not long since we agreed on in this hall a law that defines what is real partners and companies. According to that law, it counts. to a real owner who actually owns or operates a law by direct or indirect ownership of more than 25% of the legislator, has more than 25% voting rights or is considered to have other authority over the legislators. The difference between the definition of property connections by the fish - control laws and the financial resources of terrorism is ambiguous, and a person can be considered to be a real owner of the law without being associated with someone by the law on fish control. You can be a real owner under the law on real owners, but you are not linked to a person under the rules of fishing. There's obvious discrepancies. The Commission's proposal to improve the control of the fish resources is to suggest a change in the definition of the terms related to the terms and actual control so that effective monitoring of maximum resources measures can be obtained. A report by the People's Research on Fish Control reports that, despite evidence of such links as to actual authority, fishing management was not easy to find. The basis for the definition of linked parties to couples, partners and their children and the fact that certain administrative relationships between enterprises were deemed to be linked, unless it was proven to be the opposite. In addition, the task force suggested that what would be defined as a real government, and that people who were employing more than 6% of the labor department or 2.5% of the hook sector should be informed to report to the Marine Office a planned fusion, to buy a partner who was in charge of a stock department or to buy a share. The Fish Office agreed to accept such a provision would be a prerequisite for fusion or to buy a partner or share in it, and it would not be implemented until it had been approved by the Fishing Room. The bill suggests a change in the definition of the term linked to members of the fish control laws. For section 1. 4 mg. The current legislation requires that persons be linked as one party, an individual or the attorney, on a direct or indirectly more part of the stock or stock of the other person, or has a share of the voting rights. It is suggested that the party be considered related to the other party with at least Twenty-five percent of the stock, stock or voting rights in the others, in accordance with the budgetary and terrorist funding laws, no. 140/018, and registration of real owners, No. 82/2019. As a result, they are expected to be members of a real owner of someone else, to be linked in the sense of the law. If this were to be the case, if these changes were to be carried out in accordance with other laws in this councilroom, both in 2018 and in the same way in 2019, then the surveillance would be very easy because, according to the law on the registration of real owners from the year 2018, it should be published, making public accessible, information on real owners of equipment and partners. It would be easy for a Fish Room to do its own surveillance work, and there would no longer be speculation as to how the law should be interpreted. That would be perfectly clear. Second, it is suggested that linked contacts be designated as lawmakers who are governed by the same individuals as married couples, partners, children, and foster children as well as their legal bodies. Third, a more detailed definition of what constitutes a real government is laid down in the current laws on the control of fish fish. Is it suggested that the real authority refers to a right created by treaties or by some means that enables the person to exert a decisive influence on a community, property, or right to use social, or partial property, or to have the right to exert a major influence on the composition, votes, or decisions of an institution's society. Finally, the treatment of fish rooms should be given when the combined source of resources from individual sources and linked parties exceed 6% of the total value of all species that are restricted to the permitted total resources. In the case of reporting to Fish Room, each provision leads to an increase in financial division before such legislation takes place. This is not to be done until after reviewing Fish Room on the case. It is suggested that the legislation be accepted on June 1, 2021, but those who go beyond a allowable collection section under the bill will be granted a delay until the end of the fishing year 2023/2024 to take the necessary measures to settle into force. President. The problem has lasted far too long that the Fish Room has not trusted to determine whether the party is connected and if the 12% of the target has been reached even if we stared at a large factory, the same as we know is controlled and in the possession of linked parties. This trend is not good, and it can be dangerous, as I've gone over here. This is a fishing resource for all of us, the fishing resource that is to be given to all of us in the best interest, not to the majority of our counterfeiting giants. Also, fishing is a basic industry and innovation in this article is on the rise. This is an important industry, and we are to make sure that there is a reasonable basis for it and that we are to consider the public interest all the way in this case with others we work here at the General Assembly. Sadly, when it comes to fishing our resources and using them, economic security has taken over. This must be stopped. We can start by taking this step.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u106	President. I hereby recommend a candidate resolution of the availability of products containing CBD. I made this resolution to the 150th legislature and now reroute it with some adjustments. To begin with, I report a wording in a previous synonym that states that CBD will be authorized by a public sale, but I suggest here that a minister be assigned to have a survey of the regular tasks that apply to products containing the materials and make appropriate changes in order to increase access to them. So this is where I talk about increasing access. Thus a minister is allowed more space on accurate implementation of the project, with the aim of increasing access to products containing CBD. The previous motion also suggests that the minister would present the results of the survey and his proposal to the General and give a bill if necessary at the spring council in 2021. Obviously, this will not work out, so it is likely that this date will have to be changed in the progress of the case to a welfare committee. During the past few years, the industry has been in great prosperity, both in the country and in foreign lands. Thus, industrial modes have been cleared significantly, including the use of eutrophication and breeding agencies. Here in a country where health ministers authorized by the National Competent Authority regulations from the regulations of the legislation on the import, treatment and possession of the seeds of the type Canabis stiva in order to cultivate industrial mode. Since then, a number of people have begun to plant industrial disasters in this country and appear to have been very suitable for the plant. Industrial disaster has a high value and is used in many goods. As a result of increased industrial quality culture, industrial modes have become an explosion in demand for products that use industrial modes, including the U.S. In health and beauty products, all kinds of industrial and construction products, food, food supplements, car production, paper, and so on. From the plant you can also work on the active substance cannaboliol, short - term CBD, which includes are used as dietary supplements, food, cosmetics, and as a medicine. According to Article 6. the law on addiction and drugs, No. 65/1974, i.e. cannabis, marihuana, and pots, expressed as drug and drug abuse under 1st. 2.g. The law. They take the law of planting within the tribe of cannabis and the plants that are made of them. As a result of the definition of cannabis and its derivatives as narcotics, or narcotics for artificially prepared medicinal products, products containing cannabis plant CBD are subject to prescription, family and Z-labelled. Such medicines will therefore only be obtained against a prescription by a qualified physician. The current legal situation of CBD is very uncertain, as it is not specifically set in drug and drug laws nor in regulations based on law. However, CBD has been defined as one of the active substances of the cannabis plant, which are classified as drug and drug abuse under the above laws. As a result, CBD values the same rules as other substances prepared from cannabisi, i.e. to be authorised only by the Marketing Authorisation of the Marketing Authorisation of the Marketing Authorisation, subject to prescription, subject to medical prescription, subject to prescription and Z-labelled. But as I said before, it is very hazy, making this clear when discussing a substance with indistinguishable uses and is neither addictive nor drug abuse. Because CBD is not a drug, there is no evidence that it is classified as a drug or drug addiction. Products and products containing CBD may have considerable value for many individuals and already live in this country a number of people using the product, although the legal situation may be blurred. The situation today is that the European Court has concluded that CBD is not classified as a drug in the sense of law. Thus, there is nothing to prevent CBD from being classified as food and, as a result, a dietary supplement, which is, of course, in Europe and not here. That, however, gives us a picture of how this group is changing in the world, and it is inevitable that at some point we need to take this matter into consideration. Why not now? V.E.G. Healthcare Minister has provided the bill of administering the Food Agency with permission to allow the import of Cannabis sativa seeds. It is in the law of this source, which was previously granted by temporary regulations and therefore should be welcomed. It was this regulations I spoke of earlier that allowed this import of seeds. At the same time, it must seem amazing to have the production and use of industrial hamsters in every respect except when it comes to flowers, which are the most valuable part of the plant. It is possible in such a simple way to extract the active substance CBD from industrial mode, which contains very little of or no substance. Many neighboring countries of Iceland have been able to provide these productions with products where the potency of the active substance THC is less than defined limits. For example, in Britain it is permitted to win hammer fibers, oil, and other plant products provided the manufacturer has permission to do so and that certain conditions for the amount of TKC are met. In the case of cannabis products, the European Union has already separated the THC from other products to which the plant can be processed. Thus, in many European countries, growth and development of the plant is legal in the case of plants containing the THC levels below the specified limit. The rules on which products can be processed and the arrangements for their sale apply to national legislation. Many countries have already authorized increased availability and marketing of products containing CBD at within limits, but it is fairly clear that, following this European Court's decision, the legislation will be much clearer in Europe, and this is a clear judgment that the state will have to follow. The demand for products that contain CBD in this country is already considerable. It would be best to respond to the demand and allow such access, as there is no evidence to argue against it. The compound does not produce any substance, it is not addictive, and its use may benefit individuals for various reasons. It is therefore suggested in this interpretation that a minister should be committed to making the appropriate changes in regulations to make products containing CBD accessible. If necessary, a minister will also provide a bill for the legal adjustment of the law. So it is put into the minister's hands to find out how best to secure this access to CBD. In view of the fact that it was recommended for the prime minister of the industrial disaster a few days ago, and it has been sent to the welfare committee for a review, I would like to finally suggest that these two issues be discussed together to some extent in the welfare committee. Likely, some of the same guests will be called to discuss these matters, and I can imagine that they will be transmitted from similar sources in both cases. I think it would be beneficial to discuss them together. The second is the law on the plant itself, and the rest is about its products. So working together on these issues is a real challenge. I look forward to discussing this subject and having guests on the welfare committee. Since many members of different categories are co-spouses to this proposal, I hope it's a sign that we're back on the matter and finally finish it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u107	President. This interpretation proposal reads: ▪ The Council of Justice concludes to hide a legal minister to set up a group that operates a series of initiatives on a new universal law on registered living with the aim that more than two persons can register themselves and enjoy the right effects of living together, regardless of their relative relationships and personal relationships. The task force concluded that the Ministers' bill no later than the spring council 2022.How much later do we have in the spring? This is an interesting subject for many, and a certain reaction was made when it was first presented. The values of marriage laws are limited to the marriage of two parties, but they do not take in marriage. There are no universal laws on apart from marriage, depending on the circumstances and customs of the family's rights. People who are living together and having the same legal home but who are not married or in uninformed marriages can register with the National Book of Iceland. Viewing a registration form for registered partnerships on the National Publications Index, only two persons are expected in registered living together. There are various relationships between two or more individuals, many of which are not sexually active in any way. Yet, increasing knowledge of gender and sexual orientation underscores the diversity of people who make up a wide range of relationships over their lives with relatives, friends, and loved ones. At each, and how many people are engaged in registered living together, there should not be a valid mass limit. The premise, whether based on gender, sexual orientation, or other circumstances, is not relevant to the legislatator. The Lawgiver has established a fundamental principle of the rightfulness of recorded cohesion, e.g. with the law on income taxes, social security laws, adoption laws, rent laws and the law on how to act against the money-blowing and the funding of terrorism. Marriage law was changed in 2010 by law. At that time, marriage between a man and a woman was excluded, but there were conditions that allowed marriage to exist between two persons regardless of gender. Now this suggestion is not about a change in marriage but only in registered living together. The move is considered to be a timely and foreordaining change. Clearly, there can be a longer period so that there can be more than two partners who, for some reason, choose to live together with the resulting legal influence. For example, the responsibility for children or possessions is not necessarily a matter of one person or of two related persons. The entire set of registered cohesion would explain the legal status of this group, but misunderstanding has taken care to ensure that registration follows the same marital rights and marriages according to marital law. The Parliamentary decree suggests that the Minister of Justice will be assigned to set up a group of workers who are working on a set of initiatives for a new overall arrangement of registered living together, with the goal that more than two persons can enjoy the right effects of registered living, regardless of their relative relationships and personal relationships. At the same time, it can be checked whether or not the term is properly extended to the ◯ contact file, so it applies to individuals who do not share a home, e.g. individuals who live in their own country. It is then necessary to make appropriate changes in the above laws, which contain laws on the rights of individuals in registered living together so that they can reach the relevant person in the registered setting, whether there are two or more. Transporters claim to expand access to registration as the synonym aims to convert to no subject of 200th par. a general penal law on incest. Let's note that this council arrangement was distributed in Pirata's open language. Good, positive comments were presented both in community media and in this consultation process. Asked 15 formal envelopes published in the package leaflet. Transporters agree with all the comments received, and they change the proposal accordingly. The attitude displayed there is a point to take into consideration. Discussion of the matter was widely in the community and generally very positive. The most widely observed criticism is made by a change in the suggestion that only two persons are suggested to stay with each other, but marriage continues only between two individuals. In my opinion, the law of marriage may go even further and simply eliminate everything, for it is the definition of marriage, as it were, of any philosophy of life or of acting on your own. I'm just going to review the reviews received, but I'm going to quote them in the document. One of them says, with permission from the President: Despite the need to set a legal code for people to live with different persons in society, I do not see the need for rules about love and love for adults or how they want to behave personal matters. Each person wants to be married or with one or more people just has nothing to do with me or should be involved with the Lawgiver. People have themselves.Come on, come on, come on, come Another comment says: Since these things should be ruled byrelsi so that people can make agreements between partners and sharing responsibilities for housing, they agree with me on my view and on the subject. Still another comment sounds like this: It's a great suggestion. I have often wondered about the discrepancies as a single person who lives together because of not being able to take advantage of any means for taxing or cost. I know a lot of examples of land all over the country, for example. Your siblings or other relatives live together, friends, or just people who for some reason ended up in a house for decades. Although it may have been less frequent over the years, I still know a lot of farm homes where the situation is so still there. Being able to make use of the arrangement of living together, not only for financial gain, but only one possible because of the rights of children, genetics, or other factors, is simply fundamental human rights regardless of gender, sexual orientation, or otherwise. Others read: It was a lot! So out - of - date and urgent need to be revised! And yet another: ▪ I think it's a great thing to do. To promote modern - day laws in harmony with society's evolution. Another comment reads: Today we are sisters who live the same way. We bought an apartment together, have a common financial background, drive a car together, and pay for bills, food, and other expenses. So I define my sister as my partner, even though we're sleeping in a separate room and there's no sexual relationship between us. When we bought our apartment together, we found it very difficult to borrow, since only those living together can borrow. So this could have had a significant financial impact on us, having such discrimination over a marriage situation. Happily, though, my sister's pension fund allowed people to borrow whether they were living together or not. But we are fast and cannot reimburse or move as my sister's pension fund changed this, and now we can only borrow, which, of course, has a profound impact on us financially, and we feel that we are in a marriage distinction. In the future, we have considered the possibility of having a child of our own. This would make it easier for us to register both as a child's parents and to ensure the child's safety and to obtain the general rights that other parents have. Of course, this is not possible, since we are sisters. But we would be interested in the possibility of raising a child in this world. It would also seem natural for us to be able to change the personality rate of each other if circumstances change in some way, and we do not see the difference between doing so or having relations, since we are partners. Also, people are far more likely to understand than they are to stop being sisters if you go to them. Over the years, people have not often fought for this, since this is often a temporary matter. Now that we have lived together for many years, we have no idea if this will change or if we are interested in it, only time will reveal it. But this law of marriage makes it difficult for us to have a financial, social, and emotional problem with both of us. As the report shows, the responsibility for children or possessions does not necessarily mean that only one person or two other family members are involved. And now I've mentioned an example in the real world of which this is true. We have also had the privilege of not taking each other at the annual meeting of the workplace, since we were not really a couple or were actually in a relationship. Of course, this is less than the above, but it is a discrimination against a marriage and is making boring emotions that would be best avoided. It is important that laws change to improve the rights of unconventional couples, and this can also lead to a marked decrease in prejudice and discrimination in society, as such relations would be further by law. Thus, our present marriage law has caused unnecessary problems, both right and economic and social, as well as anxiety and discrimination. Other: ▪ What is the purpose of a marriage of two people in the present law? Other: If the only purpose is to simplify a legal environment around marriage, it is to place the same rules in private societies that no more than two persons are allowed to share in the company. If more people want to come together and all the existing parties are agreed, it would be reasonable to add more people. Perhaps it would be the easiest thing to combine laws on private societies and marriage under one hat and give marriage its own social security number. Other: Thank you for the suggestion. I've often wondered about this as a tenant, how all the legislation assumes that those who are renting together are either individuals or a traditional family of a nuclear family. He who hired with a group of friends, but also with my mother, as a roommate. I got a bit confused because my loan loan loans lend less to people who live at parents' homes than to rent renters. What about those who rent with their parents? And there's always a lot to assume that roommates are a thing. As someone said, "A monogamy, in this economy?" It certainly takes an updated law to fit the life - style of modern - day people. And another: It is time for the law to anticipate the variation in the lifestyle of the two species. This would be a vital step in dealing with couples who do not plan for sexual relations, as well as those who have more than two partners. The law should take into account that there are many other options people may have for living with whom they live than that of living together in sexual relations with one another. Our biological and anthropological knowledge of the kind of harmony that has been practiced among mankind around the world clearly shows that many forms of living and family life have been practiced in our species since the earliest ages, and that far from all of them, childbearing has been established. It is inconsistency with this knowledge that the lawgiver ignores one such form over another. The Lawgiver should be as supportive as possible with the forms of living and family that people choose voluntarily, with informed and undecided consent. Whether it is legal, there are people who choose to live one, two, three, or more in homes. Whether marriage is based on sexual attraction, Platonic friendship, family ties other than the selected mate, or clean practicality. The Lawgiver should be available for members of society. In support of the proposal, would it not be helpful to discuss with an anthropologist who has considered different types of community? Unfortunately, I have no suggestion about such a party. I have no more time to review the reviews, so I let people look up the accompanying papers and recommend that people seriously examine them. This is not a joke, this case, it's about important interests, though it's about a lot of people.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u108	V.E.G. President. I recommend a synopsis on national initiatives in public health-related prevention. The movers of this proposal are with me for what's happened. Councilmen: Ásmundur Friðriksson Kristjánnsdóttir, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Gólán S. Brjánsson, Sigurður, Ámundurfursson, and Helga Vala Helgadóttir. We have given much attention to public health and realize that there is an inevitable way to meet the challenges we will face in the years, years, and decades to come. It is inevitable that the primary objective, first of all, to improve the life and health of individuals living in this community and, in the second place, simply will not be allowed to live up to the level of costs of health care and health care, and because of social factors, a relative increase in expenses that we will face if nothing is done. Third, when we and the world are headed for a green, digital economy and that no one is to be left behind, i.e. with emphasis on equality, equations, and equal opportunities, there is also need to consider public health, mental, social, and physical health. The timing of such a campaign presented in this suggestion is now, a respectable president, and so much earlier. The suggestion reads: The General concluded to hide a health minister, on behalf of the government, ordering a collective group to evaluate the status of the nation's human health as well as its existing prevention measures. The task force will expand its policy and implementation programme for national initiatives in the public health-related prevention based on the evaluation and will provide a whole range of national programmes that include: in particular: a. for the future vision and goal of improving the people's health, b. defined prevention criteria as international control, c. A definition in areas where public health-related prevention is reached, d. the time frame of the programme, actions, follow-up and review. The aims of this policy will include:Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending a. that the people of Iceland may be measured by their own standards, by one of the most healthful nations of the world, b. to promote public health-related prophylaxis in all policy areas, c. to improve work in the field of prevention and health at school and at work, For example, improve education on prevention and healthy living in all areas of Icelandic society, e. that the educational system, workplaces, and institutions will be physically stable. Health Ministers will inform the General of the Action Programme no later than the fall of 2021. This is, in fact, a twofold task force, to evaluate the situation and the development of a plan, to work out policy and goals. Now it's got the highest. HCPs are already offering a proposal for a resolution of public health policies to the year 2030 and are continuing on the course beginning with the 2016 approved public health policy. In this proposal, a vision of the future is defined, and it can be said that the proposal I recommend here will be very effective at the highest policy. Minister to state. I'm going to go to the main item of the motion, but it's updated, where the matter has been presented in two ways at the 150th and in 149th Parliament. The major change is to take into account the reports and comments received so far and in the ensuing campaign. The proposal suggests that the government be committed to appointing a task force. After reading the synonym, they made the highest recommendations. Ministers of health have provided, and have recommended, and are yet to come. Health Committee, I believe this plan of action is very relevant to that policy. The Commission's review of the case during the last assembly included the following: It is pointed out that the future vision, aims, and standards of the collective public health programs need to be based on evaluations of the status of the nation's human health and current prevention measures. Since the situation of these matters would be needed in a complete way, the direction and action of the future would be based on a solid basis. Transporters agree with these indications and have made appropriate adjustments in the proposal. - Yes, sir. - Roger that. Minister's coming even. to the sole goal that Iceland will become one of the world's most healthy people in 2030. It has been pointed out that it is important to update current policies so that they will well agree to a new course of health care approved by the General Assembly as a conclusion of No. 29th from 149th Council. The reviews of that proposal included It was pointed out that it lacked clear guidance on prevention and human health. The Society of Nurses even pointed out that the need for a clear discussion of this fundamental component of health care. The importance of improving public health policies in accordance with health policy was stated by the surgeon. Business organizations pointed out that health policies do not discuss the challenges of aging and the increasingly predictable health - care costs. A greater proportion of health - care committees felt that the implementation of policy would highlight human health and prevention. Looks like the highest. Ministers must be responding to this in the above - mentioned contribution of public health policies now under consideration. The welfare committee. Then, for a long time, public knowledge of the values of good life and their relationship with good health were increasing, and this is vital. The World Health Organization defines health as perfect physical, mental, and social well - being, not just the absence of disease and health problems. Health is important for economic development and for society as a whole. Worldwide, long - term diseases are a major threat to health, progress, and economic growth. The main risk factors include immobilization, alcohol consumption, smoking, and poor eating habits. Diseases caused by unhealthy lifestyles bring great stress to the health system. The future health costs for the government are likely to increase because of the results of modern living. Research shows that the use of healthcare professionals increases with increasing BMI and the health cost increases on average by 1.9% at each additional unit of the index. This is where we've been getting worse, a respectable president. It is important that this development be reversed by national campaigns in public health - related prevention that embraces all age groups of society. Prevention aims to prevent disease and reduce its complications. Prevention has been shown to substantially reduce risk factors for chronic disease. The World Health Organization estimates that 80% of cardiovascular events, 90% of adult diabetes, and 30% of all cancer cases can be prevented by diet, exercise and lack of smoke. A healthy lifestyle can prevent much of the heart disease, stroke, diabetes, and other serious illnesses. With progressive preventive measures, the need for animals and complex health care can be reduced, thus reducing the pressures on the health system. The results of a new study of Iceland's University of College of Education in Health and Life at an elementary school show that about 40% of youths in the 10th grade experience sadness every week or more and 38% claim to have difficulty sleeping. A number of studies confirm the preemptive value of sports. These show that increased exercise reduces the occurrence of serious medical conditions. Participants of organized sports also reduce the likelihood of abnormal behavior and have many positive effects on learning results, self - image, self - respect, body image, health, and general feeling. In this way, the chances are that the organized activities of an athlete's partner will lead to social benefits and reduce the pressures on the health system. Motion has also been shown to have a positive effect on school and employment markets in the form of fewer sick days and more production. The results of a study conducted in Iceland's High School of Education from 2003 to 2011 show that young people move about as much as they do in their 80's. Environmental health report from 2017 shows including that 1 out of 3 adults in Northern countries does not exercise in accordance with minimum movement recommendations as well as in Iceland. It also shows that the proportion of nonalcoholic people increased from 19% to 25% from 2011 to 2014. Arousity is considered to be as high a risk factor as smoking, so it is important to turn this trend around with progressive instruction on the importance of exercise for people of all ages. Young people who experience positive exercise experience are more likely to choose a life - style that involves adult exercise. It must be ensured that all children have the same opportunities for sports and leisure activities regardless of their parents'economic situation, as this increases quality of life and is an important part of a healthy life - style. Much about raising the public to think about your own health and well - being and focusing attention on the possibilities each person has for having a positive influence on his own health and quality of life. Special attention should be given to the health of young people, since potential for success is the most important option in this age group. These have often been cited to Guðlaugsson the son of Gudla, a latecomer of health: A process of successful aging. It shows that a life - style that includes an active life - style. There is a wide range of training that has a broad range of benefits. The study subjects were 71◯90 years of age. Key findings were that the daily movement of the majority of the subjects was only a fraction of the recommended international health care centres. The results showed some that body mass index and fat mass improved after training and positive changes in muscle mass after training. The study shows that older age groups may benefit in a number of specific physical activity, in terms of premature loss of movement, and maintaining quality of life. The number of elderly people in Iceland is increasing, so it is predictable that future medical expenses will greatly increase. The aims of health - related prophylaxis are a factor in preventing this trend. The key to success in the field of prowess and public health is cooperation and a broad, cross-cutting approach based on knowledge. Public health policies to 2030 show that policies and decisions of state and community are essential for public health reasons and that national health will be introduced on national level. It says that health issues, which constantly pay attention to the impact of public health and health policies, need to be the key factor in all policy activities. In this context, it is important that countries and rural groups work together to achieve their goal. A health - care community is a project of an official surgeon in cooperation with rural society, government agencies, free partnerships, and other bodies. The primary objective is to support communities in creating environment and conditions that contribute to the healthy life - style and well - being of all people. Prevention needs to include all aspects of the community's health and well - being of all age groups. It is necessary to promote the public health work carried out by a surgeon with increased financial resources to the seminary, such as research, evolution, and the growth of public health funds. This is actually the same theme that can be read in public health policy. Secretary of health. More emphasis must be paid on human health prevention through the cooperation and support of the health system and the implementation of established public health policies. The increase in government donations is important in the long run so that future health costs can be balanced. The people are supposed to be in the foregrounds. It is one of the priorities that calls for cooperation and teamwork between the different parties, rural partners and institutions, perhaps at least to open up or provide access to professional knowledge and innovation in this field. It's a professional job here. It's a password. I'm calling out for the sports movement. It is equipped, knowledge, and construction, and in cooperation with others, it can be used in such an effort. In this context, we refer to the nationalism that Dan had in cooperation with the sports movement called Move for Life. Motion is that it often unites our social and spiritual systems and gives us added energy for ourselves and for those around us. It's the slogan: all counts. I know that the Sports Association and the Young Association have provided the basis for such action in this country. This could be an action that will result in the effort being proclaimed here. I hope so, highest. President, at what? The welfare committee takes this matter into consideration. [[The president calls.]] They certainly speak to public health policies that lack effort and action in these areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u109	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson for taking the lead and initiative to present this fine, good work, a national campaign in public health - related prevention. As noted by whiskers. A senator is working on a program or an update plan for these health - care programs. We know most about this concept, human health, but maybe it's not very good with language, and we don't quite know what it involves; people's health, prevention, and health - control projects. These are sweet terms, and they make a good impression, and they are designed to make a success of it. What, though, does it involve? These are important concepts and projects that are long - term projects. In public health projects, you see that the benefits are not always obvious and visible within a very short period of time, and that may be why we are doing this rather well. This proposal to improve work in the field of prevention and health management at school and at work is made clear. That's what I want to ask you. A senator of how he envisions it. This ideologies must be spittered throughout society, the school system, and the workplace. Do we have to change the way we work, work, and even change our collective agreements to meet those views?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u110	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón who created the Brjánsson Brunnson, who is also a mediator in this matter. He has shown this great interest, public health, and these matters. You're absolutely right. A senator comes on, it's been a bit that way through the years; beautiful terms and great wills, a single campaign here and there. I think we've come to realize that people's knowledge, information and access need to be assured and that they need to be helped to take responsibility for their own health. We are always getting better sense of it, apart from the importance of promoting better public health. I did well over the reasons for that, but people's health is a universal concept, as is the case. A senator came in. It has to do with spiritual, social, and physical health. But there is a lack of the whole body while we have been putting our arms around it and reading us through research that confirms that this is not a question of whether we need to improve human health but how. We've been on individual projects throughout the years, hosted to work through our workplace, health-exploited society, and have been implementing the ideologies. But I appreciate it so much that we need to come together and go into a national campaign and use the knowledge wherever it is, to use the sports and young people who know it, and to know it, and to know it, because physical activity has more than spiritual and social factors, that it draws the social and spiritual factors forward.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u111	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson agrees with him in all matters. He made it clear in his talk that we need to keep in mind the difference between our economic, status, and earning people in our community. It's working. The fact is, there is a link between these factors and people's health. We need to adopt the view that this is important to all of us. What is important, too, is this: What do we do ourselves? We need to increase our awareness and responsibility for our health. This fine suggestion is just what Guðlaugsson Gudlsson has been considering, that we spend the most money on health care to treat disease. Only 2% fall into prevention, 98% on the other. It is closer to the environment that really matters, our habitat, how it is made. This is what we expect to be organized in our communities. Of course, we are deeply concerned about young people, how they feel, and why. A senator entered the importance of the undisputed sports movement. How important it is to enable people to participate in both social and sports activities! But how is that possible? A member of the council to activate the community, the communities, because, of course, this requires something? [[The president calls.]] We're getting closer with something like that. the approved ones we did today with contributions for our community's welfare?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u112	V.E.G. President. I'm gonna start where it's at. A senator concluded by reminding me of that national agreement, I allow me to call, to promote support to the public welfare organization, because there is a great knowledge of a very broad field. Hv. A senator refers to society as one of its own. They are aware of this, and this has been shown in their comments on this matter. They say that two things are missing, i.e. the updated plan and the financial support to follow. This doesn't have to cost too much money. All of our rural areas are these institutions that we nose; school society, workplace, sports, and the young people who know these things. We see this campaign going well for filming in Denmark. We don't have to invent the bike in this. It is undisputed, and it is more rapid when we talk about achieving a balance between earnings and paying in the circumstances we live in today's world, that 6 out of 10 k. the public's tax returns to the health, health, and social systems. And most of it is just repairs. I read here relative figures, what can be added in that field. The cost is so much, much more from not going into a targeted effort there than from the cost of the enterprise itself. Knowledge, experience, knowledge, and understanding are far greater than there is. This just calls for an updated program that this proposal actually foretells. [[The president calls.]] It's called very good with maximum direction. Health Minister, public health policies to 2030.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u113	President. I speak here the fourth time, that I suppose, concerning this motion. We know some of the points here in this Assembly Hall that there are times when things must be done over and over and beyond their reach. I love this matter because it's relatively small and simple, but also because it's quite good, simple, and right to agree with it. In 2017, the year after I arrived at the council, I was privileged to be sent on behalf of the Generals to the New York United Nations Women's Committee for Women, which was the first time from a collapse sent by the International Assembly. There I came to know these references, gender - sensitive references used by the International Parliamentary Association. This is one of the methods used to assess the status of the sexes, to assess the status of equality. I think that all of us should agree that it is good to evaluate the position of equality, and actually we say during the holidays that we all agree that equality should be the most important. That's why I've been a little disappointed that, as you and I say, we shouldn't have the luck to finish this case. The proposal is to assign the President to the General Assembly to establish the General's Homology Control, which will determine whether and how sex will affect decision-making within the General Assembly, how governments's conclusions and actions on equality have been carried out, and will examine the sensitivity of the General Assembly for different sex positions according to the sexual sensitivity of the International Parliament's Convention, IPU. To ensure a wide range of views, members of the Generalist HST come from different angles. That work comes from representatives of both government and government, men and women. A representative of the Generals' office is a member of the group, as well as a representative of the Generals. They're going to consult with the O.R.P.A.P.D. The Rape report to the General Generals every 1st April, and the president gives the report to the General. This is a sum of suggestions, Mr. President. It then lists information that may include the following: you will be included and supported by these international indicators, which are, in fact, only talking about monitoring the position, the sensory shift becoming a bit of a barmet on the position in these issues, where the decisions are made, how the sex status is, etc. This has been discussed a few times and has been very much of a viewpoint against this, that this is nonsense and unnecessary - all in good terms with that - but also with the view that people have a little difficulty looking at the General as one of the workplaces, that it is the same thing about Congress, political agents, and the General staff. I can have some respect for the views, but this work is all of us at work, and the international indicators used for this and the positions of equality are for all of us, whether we are the folk or the council here. Since many bodies have adopted such standards of gender, it is not as if it were a radical suggestion to monitor the equality of the sexes. In Finland there is a special committee on behalf of the council in these matters. The Rapporteur is aimed at evaluating the situation in these substances and in compliance as well as identifying the sex situation for influence and assessment of the rules and laws relevant to sexual equality. President. That I knew there was a big, progressive step if the Council would have the good fortune to finish it. For example, the Generalist Department of Sex would be a progressive tool for the full equality of the sexes within the Generals. I'm not gonna have my story much longer. Yet, I would like to quote just a few of the reviews that have been received on this subject during the previous council, so we realize that it is very much supported. We go down in 2019 where an economist says, with the permission of a president: a court office supports this proposal wholeheartedly, thinking that the General Hygiene Hygiene Hymism is needed as an addition to the activities of the council. The European Court of Human Rights, with the permission of the president: the Court of Human Rights and People, in the city of Reykjavík, welcomes a judicial hearing of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Jehovah's Witnesses. From BSRB, with president's permission: ◯BSRB welcomes the proposal and encourages it to be taken over at the General Assembly. Finally, from Iceland's Women's Rights Association: The Iceland's National Institute of rights supports the whole mind of this proposal for Congress to establish the General's Hygiene Watch. And it goes out with the words: ▪ Embarrassing equal rights is the basis for prosperity and well - being and without authority and public participation in women, the UN's goals for peace, equality, and democracy cannot be met. President. We have taken fine steps to make progress in these matters, and there are suggestions on reexamination in the Senate and in other matters and on the procedures that apply to us. I have no doubt that all the members I referred to here, the international community that follows these verses, the councils that have even entire committees active in keeping up with this, the International Parliament Union, etc., are right to take the step to establish a sense of identity within the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-15-79.u114	A respectable president. I'm sure it's a good idea to carry this bill. It's been in preparation for some time with Floki. As everyone knows, I am a very visually impaired, law - blind person, and I am perfectly aware of how valuable it would be to have such a tool beside me as a guide dog. I recommend here for a bill to correct a change in the service and knowledge centres law for the blind, impaired vision and persons with integrated visual and hearing impairment, no. 160/2008, with respect to guide dogs. The entire group of the people on the bill, as well as those who wanted to be with us, were not in the council when the bill was recorded. Olga Margrét Cilia would like to contribute to this matter. I'm going to spin into the changes we're asking for the law to be done, by permission of a president: - Uh-huh. - After Il. The chapter of the law comes a new chapter, II. Chapter A, Guidedogs, with one new article, par. a, as well as a heading, as follows: Guidedogs. The budget shall ensure annual financial support to provide, train and import guide dogs in line with demand. A Service and Knowledge Centre arranges for the collection of guide dogs in cooperation with the Blind Society. Users should not have the costs of training such dogs or the transport of such dogs to and from their country at any time. The central station accepts and cancels guide dogs applications. They should be assigned to those counted, according to the assessment, to use them as an aid for increased security and independence in everyday life. The distribution is followed by training in trained dog coaches and encore teachers. The distribution follows individual assessment and individual pair assessment and guide dog assessment. Those considered to take advantage of a dog's guide dog for greater independence from everyday life after reviews but who have waited for the distribution of a guide dog for more than 12 months shall have the right to increase financial support, a total of 50,000. in the month, until distribution. This is to think that the person will be able to take advantage of this money in support of his daily life when he is on the move, support that the guide dog would otherwise support him. ▪ Controversy on the decision of the Center at the time. 1,◯3. mg she is authorized to report her decision to the Ministry. 2.g. This law already comes into effect.◯ With the President's permission, I'm going to read from the report with the bill: ▪ Train dogs are invaluable support for the blind and the visually impaired. They give people greater security and independence. They are needed to improve the person's quality of life. Sadly, the number of people assigned to a guide dog is fewer than what is needed and what is needed. At present there are 18 people on the waiting list for a guide dog, and many of them have to remain unalterable for years before distribution. Unlike other tools, guide dogs are sentient creatures who need to be trained for their actions and also need to be sure that guide dog would be connected with its new owner. Thus, guide dogs are often limited. Since there is no training station for them in Iceland, they are cultivated and trained in Norway - largely as well as in Sweden - ◯ and then moved to Iceland. It is expensive to train guide dogs, but each dog costs an average of 46.5 billion. K. The government has never guaranteed enough money to provide guide dogs, and it is often so that free partners pay for the dogs with self - resources. It is unacceptable that people will have to wait for years for needed relief tools and that waiting is delayed because the government's funds are not fully involved in financing. A guide dog is a revolution in growing the quality of life of visually impaired people and blind people who can use them to help with their daily lives. The objective of the bill is to uncheck where possible wait for guide dogs and make it easier for them to import. It is suggested that the state funds fully secure the funding for the amendment, training and import of the dogs. The budget should be ensured according to demand. Every year, a minister shall provide funds for the raising of guide dogs, and he is obliged to provide sufficient funds to demand them. It is suggested that the services and knowledge centres for the blind, vision impaired, and persons with integrated visual and hearing impairment (after the centre) oversee the collection of guide dogs in cooperation with the Blinder Society. The Society has long maintained its guard over the subject and is an expert on the subject. It is then suggested that guide dogs and application procedures and distributions in the laws on the OLCs for the blind, impaired vision and persons with integrated visual and hearing impairment will be considered. For a discussion of guide dogs, see this leaflet with the regulations for the intervention of the relief tools provided by the centre. This text is suggested to be largely included in the tracks with certain changes. Unlike the package, it is not expected that the centre will determine a number of dogs each year for distribution but that the demand will be there. The central station should be designed to ensure that all candidates are accepted, guide dog as soon as possible. There is no special separation of minimum age, as in the package leaflet of the Regulation. In addition, it is suggested that those who have received the approved application for guide dog should have increased financial support, a sum of 50,000. if they waited longer than 12 months for distribution. Thus, because they do not have the help of a guide dog, they are assured of funding to survive the increase in expenses they face. It then creates increased pressure on the government to ensure a sufficient supply of guide dogs. Everyone must be assured of the right to assist. Blindness or visual acuity should never have to wait for needed relief tools to help with everyday life. It is not enough to make sure the right is there. Preservation, careful planning, and assistance are needed. As mentioned earlier, a guide dog costs 46.5 billion. K. and now 18 blind and visually blind people are waiting for such a dog. The total cost of a positive approach to the quality of life that these individuals may have is that it is unfair not to pay them with a happy spirit. How unacceptable it is if the government is not going to embrace this group of people and make life as bearable as possible in view of its disability! It is not just a matter of ensuring financial support but also of securing the oer. If this bill becomes legal, the government needs to take the initiative and ensure regular supply of guide dogs. Hopefully, this will be the first step toward starting a guide dog school in Iceland. That's when I've finished reading the report. However, I would like to talk a little bit more about how much it means to be put as close to it as possible not to be disabled. That is why we have accepted international agreements, such as. The covenant about the rights of disabled people. How amazing that we have not yet legalized the United Nations Treaty on the rights of disabled people! We've confirmed him. We've approved him. We haven't legalized him yet. What a surprise it is that we are still waiting for it! I realize that it is a problem for those who have not had to deal with disability to put themselves in the shoes of those who are fighting it in their everyday lives to walk around with dignity. The majority of us are given the option, unfortunately, but this is the way it should be bound up, and that is the meaning of the law, that is, in fact, the will presented in various legislations. In fact, the willingness to bring the disabled person as close as possible to being compromised is possible. For someone who is blind or very blind, a person who is very lenient in his daily life, a revolution in increasing quality of life is having the kind of aid a guide dog really is, if you are blind or very visually ill. When you don't have your eyes, that dog is your guide dog, he's your eyes. He'll never go crazy on the shift. Some may feel that it is a great deal to pay over 46.5 million. K. For a guide dog, but that's not much. This requires extensive training, and not all dogs are equipped to become guide dogs. But if they are, they never go crazy. They never turn away from the blind or from the blind. They protect one completely, and their eyes become our eyes. All I'm saying for my part is that I want to believe that before we finish this terms and before our last election begins, we can all take this bill in our arms. We're talking about big, improved living conditions, such as for the 18 people who are now waiting for this help. I don't believe it until I make sure that the whole world doesn't take this matter into its arms and approve it before we enter the summer.
