ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u1	Following last week's conference discussion of the report from Þorbjörg by Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir and others about changes in the organization and the execution of cervical cancer screening, President wants to suggest that the health minister, in a letter to the president, has requested for another four weeks to report the report. At the same time, it has been reported that Haraldur Briem, a former psychiatrist, will work on a report as an independent member of the health minister's request and that members of Congress have been informed on this matter. Following this discussion yesterday about the answers to queries, it is good to mention that the conference office has a routine contact with the Ministry when more than time inquiries have passed and after expected answers and/or that it is not possible to obtain a longer delay. The President also intends to contact the Minister or Ministry for the most recent inquiries since the introduction. The answer will still be for about 14 queries received during the October through February. In such a long time, the president gives us reason to take special measures to press after answers. Otherwise, it can be explained that the situation in general in these issues is far less than it has often been about this time of year.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u2	The president also wants to inform us about today's meeting, that we can expect a total of three meetings. Conscious of the fact that there is a tendency to legalize today the issue that was distributed and that the president mentioned earlier. In the first session, in addition to the council and special discussions, there will be votes. You may find that the 17 part on the program is down. Thus, the program will be delayed and replaced by a new meeting with the bill mentioned by the president of the past and will focus on basic measures for a pandemic crown. Finally, it is the third meeting, where it is available to try to make the legal case possible, and then to continue the following program according to events.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u3	A respectable president. History provides a number of examples of new technologies and new products and new business practices in which they take a firm stand in certain areas and while the State's authority is completely determined to maintain its monotonous status. With the increased network shop of the past few years, the monopoly of the state's alcohol and tobacco trade has been cut off in a way that the Icelanders can now simply order from small sales other than the ATVR, but only from foreign marauders across the ocean, with a cause for disaster for customers in this country due to the time and cost of this transfer across the sea. During the past few days, it has been reported in the news that a French company, Santewines SAS, is now inviting Icelanders to buy wine on their websites and to be delivered on the same day or the next day's active day. Based on information on the company's website, the company's supply is in the country that explains a short period of payment. It is right to keep it in place that the company comes, that I understand, all the alcoholics to the government funds and liquor stores, and that it also covers the age of customers. Now the question arises, a respectable president: Why are we holding onto this monopolitan government store? Why do we continue to do so as a monopoly? They seem to only have the result that companies that could be founded here on land are founded abroad and if successful pay taxes. Can you believe that the registration of a Web site to a home in Burgundy or in the country changes drinking habits? A respectable president. For example, we are to take this store home to the province, from Burgundy to the Bursum district. It's about time a long time ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u4	A respectable president. Price insurance affects our economy beyond the financial interests of consumers who take in securities loans. Valuable loans, for example, have systemic negative effects, to reduce the bites of the Media Bank tool system, e.g. interest rates. They replace bank property without the need to raise interest specifically or do something else that could affect demand. Of course, there are theories on that, credible to my opinion, that insurance itself creates a vicious circle of inflation. Now we live so well that about Half the loans are insured. This has always been more, and, of course, it was not for a long time that anyone could get disloyal loans. Today, unscrupulous loans are on a grand scale and become predictable because growth is blessedly low. A respectable president. Cutting off insurance by law, yes, forbidding it is required to take into account the impact of such changes on the economy itself. Therefore, this is now a chance, as long as insurance loans are inaccessible and insurance loans are on the line to help repair changes that are falling to defuse insurance. Whether it will be done on one board or over a mere period of time might be a different question than that, in view of the circumstances now, I tend to the former, that we should simply make a new price - secure loan impossible by law. I don't have the time or maybe the patience of listeners to review everything that's bad about the insurance policy or the precise reasons why we should cancel it, but my point is that now is a good time to go into such changes if the General wants to go to it on a different level.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u5	A respectable president. This weekend, we're as a community of a new wave #metho. I don't know if you should cry or rejoice when such waves surface. Probably both. The stories are horrible, but we need to be happy that they surface. Probably the wave's here to stay. It is shocking to know that our other good society has the ugly spot of sexual violence and harassment. We need to listen to these stories. We need to learn, and we simply need to do better. Despite the effort to further research on sexual crime and its speed, however, we are not doing enough. We need to do better. We always need to provide shelter for the victims and help them. But what about the doers? We hear the stories. They're all kinds of things. Sometimes there are horrible acts of violence, sometimes in such a way that the experiences of individuals seem very different. How do we work with this lesion? Is our punishment system in such a way that it can deal with the task? How do we help doers to stop resorting to violence?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u6	A respectable president. I am a huge fan of Ruth Bader Ginsburg, U.S. Supreme Court judge. She was a brilliant lawyer, a clever lawyer, a clever woman an answer. She was appointed judge of the Supreme Court in 1993 and later became leader of the liberal arm of the Supreme Court. As a lawyer, she worked on small issues to test important factors that had far greater impact than those words themselves indicated. This led to a change. Its strength was that it sensed legal but at the same time the political consequences of the court's judgments. Not long ago, there was in the news about the teacher's case, who wanted his resignation in vain. The reason for their retirement was that the teacher was 70 years old. The teacher felt that only age would rule that he would no longer be taught. The question may be raised, the political question, the social question: How does it affect professional school activities that older and more experienced teachers should quit just because they wake up 70 years of age one day? How it rhymes with the work, i.e. teaching and perhaps imparting wisdom along the way? The teacher lost the case, was suspended because of her age. When I read that judgment, I thought of her favorite judgment, how she had drawn up her arguments, such a court case would enter her. True, this rule did not apply, and the 70 - year - old rule would have led to her failure to judge matters over the past 17 years. That would have been a serious loss for an American community. As a judge until her death, she died at 87 years of age, and many of her most important judgments came in the last few years. What lesson and experience do we learn from this? Today, Reykjavíkurburg is working on a flexible retirement policy, giving people more freedom of choice about their retirement. [[The president calls.]] It's an important change and an important work that I celebrate. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u7	A respectable president. After a long and severe earthquake crash on Smokenes, a volcanic eruption in Gingdads in Mount Fair Valley began at about 15 minutes before nine Friday evenings, March 19, 2021. More fountains were opened, but there was no danger of being built because of the eruption. Today, the rain has increased its power, and its flow is greatly increased. There is a possibility that during a natural disaster in which we, general citizens, may feel that the situation is manageable and that there is little danger in the next settlement, the danger might not be far behind. It is important that the reactents and those who need to respond quickly if conditions change with knowledge and experience in handling matters. Last week the government and the Environment Ministry were consulted to gain experience and knowledge of the construction of a defense park. It may be necessary to build a barrier later in order to protect important structures in the city or on the city of Smokenes so that changes in the soda will be made and cracks may open in close proximity. Already there is an export of potential testing of potential lava flow defenses in the Merard Halls based on the current eruption of Gedingad salaur. The purpose of this test is to gain experience and knowledge of the building of defenses that may need to be built later in order to protect important structures, as stated earlier. A respectable president. The Council of Grindavík emphasizes that the conditions currently existing in the Merard Halls will be immediately used to perform a test of lava and the required licenses for implementation. Let's hope they get through this. But as far as I'm concerned, there's no license to run a test like that. I have to say, of course, that there's nothing to be said if Iceland's Environment Ministry or Government prevents such permission from being given. In this regard, it may be noted that seawater lava was tested in Surtsey in 1965, which was useful in the 1973 Home Islands.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u8	President. Again, the question is, Why do these women not charge? However, the question should be, Why do we not rely on charges? Here are some reasons why we should keep in mind: endless stories about police officers who laugh about sexual abuse because of the police station. Judges that expressly and indirectly suggest that this was our fault for drinking too much. Ladies and gentlemen are being dismissed for lack of evidence, although we had done everything right, i.e. what the court system feels is that we should do after we are raped; go to the emergency room, talk to the police and the doctors, and then be rebuked for not being clear enough. But it's just a little difficult to be clear when the brain and the body are in shock. It is also a little difficult to be clear when our neighbors are so close to us that we risk losing all our backs if we say something or say that our career, reputation, and financial backland will be irreparably damaged by reporting. We do not press charges, for the justice system tells us to keep our mouth shut. We do not press charges, for if we dare to do so, we are out in the community. If we speak up, we are rejected from family and friends. The question should be: Why do these good workers not just stop harassing, raping, demeaning, and causing irreverent harm to the lives of women and sexes? This is not a burden. The shame is a mass - scale and legal system that has completely failed to break the tolerance of sexual abuse and refuses to take responsibility for the lasting harm it has caused in the generations of women and the sex that do not trust the system to achieve justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u9	V.E.G. President. Since 1992, we have made a progressive study of the interests of young people. During the past 22 years, studies and analyses have been conducted for the study ◯ Young People ◯ By 1998, 42% of 15 - year - olds had been drunk in the past 30 days, and now 20 years later, that number had fallen below 6%. Drug consumption was a growing problem in Icelandic society, but this trend was reversed. It was organized. The results of a recent study of youths in grade 8, 9, and 10 show that only one in three students evaluates their physical health. Only half of the students feel that they are often getting enough sleep and only about one in four students appreciates their spiritual well - being. Today's subjects are different from those of 20 to 30 years ago, and they need to respond in the most progressive manner than they had 20 years ago. But there is a growing number of young people who experience fear. The number of students who are not interested in what they are doing is increasing. The number of students who have little appetite is increasing. The number of students who experience themselves alone is increasing, including those who are sad and depressed. The number of students increase significantly in their physical and mental health as well as in their poor health. What role models do we have as adults? What is the value of society? Is it joy, a desire for life, sincerity, and contentment? In the media and in the community centers, huge competition, comparison, control, envy, investment, and greed. Should we as adults cultivate childish qualities in order to improve life? We are to nurture our children and become better examples of young people. So let us consider the new subjects of our young people today.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u10	A respectable president. During the last week, many people, mostly women, have shown great courage and have put their sexual violence on social media. First, I want to thank them for their courage. It is not easy to expose oneself publicly. It is not easy to wind down rape. We're in another wave. So this is the second time in a few years that social media lenders to women voice and men who, too, were long deaf because of the silence and the slag, because of attitudes that have been an ill - treated in our society and who pressure us to look at ourselves as a community, blue - eyed. Today, there has been some debate over why people appear on social medias, whether it is justified in publishing so much information that a person is almost personal without ever having the issue on the table of the police. At the same time, however, we are informed that the Court of Justice in 40% of the cases of sexual abuse carried out in court, 40%. Compared to that, 25% of decisions in violent and drug abuse are reduced. If these are the greetings from the courts of the country, would it not be surprising that the victims are reluctant to seek their rights? Although we are here three years ago in this hall, the changes in civil penalties in the way that approval is premiumed on sexual crime, the burden of evidence in these cases is still far too heavy. On top of this, we find victims who are accused of blacking out the reputation of their agents. It is a discussion that we need to root out at once. When violent violence is used, it is domineering to destroy its own reputation. All of us need to look at ourselves, we need to stand with all those who endure, especially those closest to us, and recognize those we know and make clear that we take sides with them in the face of violence. Mr. President. I want to thank again all those who have the courage to tell their story. I see you. I believe we're all listening, and now we have to deal with this together. I'm on your side.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u11	A respectable president. This morning, the Road Building held a seminar on highways in the highlands. I'm happy to see that, because one of the transport plans is to shape the design of the road to Iceland's highlands. The seminar marks a turning point in the work that called for differing views on the subject, how they saw the way in the highlands, where they should be, how, and whom to serve. In the highlands, there is a large network of roads in very different conditions. Thus, this is a very important subject, regardless of the way government in the highlands is conducted. The road is responsible for the institutions of the highlands and the network of highway roads that are part of the highway system. Outside there are roads and paths, here and there, i.e. Roads that have been mainly laid by rural areas and rights, such as farmers, fishermen, and energy companies. In many cases, roads have been proposed by means of the government through a reserve fund, many of which have not been involved in public funds. Companys who operate in the highland administration are responsible for the registration of these roads and to determine at the same time which one of them is open public traffic. The seminar was good, but I missed a discussion about the road north of Lake Bay. I believe one of the very basic traffic projects in the highlands is to make a targeted decision on the link between the highlands north of Lake glaciers by the super-sonic route. This calls for not only the best course but also the way to set. If there is a desire to ensure access to natural bulbs, such as the Caddys, Habitat and Hygienes without damaging nature, then the task must be carried out.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u12	Mr. President. Iceland has a special relationship with Palestine, but Iceland was the first Western power to accept the independence and sovereignty of Palestine, with the agreement of the Generals in 2011. We also have a historical connection with the kingdom of Israel since its establishment in 1948, but because of their connections, I challenged the government less than a year ago, along with a sharp one. Councilmen Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörðurdóttir, Logi Einarsson, and Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, seek peaceful solutions to disputes there, but nothing has been heard of. While Iceland's government did nothing about the situation in Palestine continued to worsen, the main manifestation of these days is the controversy surrounding Sheikh Jarrah in Jerusalem, where the Israelites have decided to replace Palestin family and allow settlers to settle there, contrary to international law and human rights. It is hardly necessary to mention that this type of forced transport has been among the worst crimes against mankind, whether the indigenous population in the United States, the Tartar of the Crimea, and the Ukraine, and the Caucasus, or all the numerous cases in which this has been done. Also, there is no need to mention that such forced transportation often precedes, or takes place at the same time, genocides, as is known in Kurda, Armena, and all too many other nations, unfortunately. For these reasons, I would like to use this opportunity to highlight the first challenge of the government to take part in the affairs of Palestine but also to challenge the council to complete as soon as possible the approval of two Senate laws, the condemnation of genocide in the Kurds and the similar genocides in the Armenians, the important thing is that the crime against mankind will not go down and that the world is watching well.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u13	Mr. President. In 1st. a law on the rights of patients says, on the basis of sex, religion, opinion, ethnic background, race, color, economic, tribal status, and otherwise. In the 3rd. says, with the permission of the president: a patient has the right to the most perfect health care facilities at any given time. In the first century C.E. par.: a patient entitled to health information, including medical information on the condition and prognosis Mr. President, I would like to try these laws into the history of a woman that last October 1st had a breast x-ray and a cervical examination. In mid - November, she received an announcement that cervical biopsy was not normal, and she received a request to go on. is a page to find out about that information. She made a second investigation on December 16, and a sample from that study was sent to Denmark. On February 22nd, she has decided that she has a so-called HPV analysis, so she needs another study. She went to another study on March 8, and a vision was taken and sent to Denmark. Now I have to ask if this story fits into the law frame I crossed earlier. And I have to ask if this story, because it is one of thousands, Mr. President, and thousands of others are the basis for a representative of the General Assembly to initiate an initiative study of women's business which has been identified by the early stage of cervical cancer and the Ministry of Health. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is a disgrace, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u14	A respectable president. The government's birthday present on the grounds of the 60th anniversary of Iceland's Quantum Community is a new translation of the United Nations Convention on the issues of disabled people. Last night, the discussion of the translation here at the General Assembly stated that the contract could not be legalized by the government until the correct translation of the contract was made that is wrong and that it was just another outcome. The best birthday present for the IBI would have been to legalize the contract, as was supposed to have been done in December if it had been followed here at the General Assembly. If we were here at the General Assembly, the United Nations agreement on the issues of disabled people as we do would already have been established in Iceland's eternal struggle against the system that systematically violates their laws and rights. There is an increase in the number of cuts, and this despite the increase in the current population of 65 dollars in favor of a decrease, which is only a small patch against a dollar in the course of the injury. With the permission of the President, a sentence from the Þuríður of the Harpa Sigurðardóttir, president of the Quantum Alliance, to celebrate the anniversary of his birthday: ▪ It is time for the wall that has been built by the government between disabled persons and for the community to be broken down, where there is a decrease at the top of the list. Icelanders have a worldwide record of overindulging and taxing sufferers, which are not measured. No other nation will use such brutal action to this community. The result is that a section of disabled people suffers from everlasting poverty, poverty that follows them into old age, oppression, breakdown, and hopelessness. It also says: ▪ The elderly get the same ride, those living in nursing homes are too expensive in business, too expensive for the community they created. Honorable President: Paying attention to justice here at the General Assembly, immediately agree to a UN agreement on the affairs of disabled people. The majority of the people are actively fighting discrimination, injustice, and will continue to struggle with all efforts to crush down the walls of poverty. To translate the United Nations is not enough. Let's take the United Nations deal out of freezing ice and legalize it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u15	Mr. President. At the recent branch meeting of the left green, it was discussed with a wide variety of innovations and innovations. Emphasis on innovation and research is a key factor in increasing the support of the European economy and in the international climate crisis programme. Support to innovation and diversity of employment has been an important factor in left green policy from the beginning. In recent years, the movement has emphasized the support of sceptical companies and innovations so that ideas could become reality, as well as the care of particularly small and medium-sized companies, who had come off course but were still in development. Special emphasis has been given on reimbursement for corporate research and development costs and on the importance of public services innovation. This will highlight the growth of core research and their role as a basis for fertile innovation in Iceland. A target plan has been developed and used to cope with climate challenges and technological revolutions and the effects on employment markets, health technology and public health, to name something. There's been a revolution in the environment of innovation, but we always have to do better. New creation can have a big format, and it can have a small format. It is shown in technical technologies, new methods, services, and improved practices. New creations continue to advance into society, increase prosperity, and contribute to a variety of employment, as we know. I think innovation will strengthen our settlements in the coming years with all the technologies that are, not only in some special technical environment, but also with diversity in the current industry, that there will also be innovation in previous employment roads. They will strengthen a great deal of employment all over the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u16	Mr. President. I thank you very much for the words of putting counsellors in response to written inquiry, and I'll make one such inquiry here as a talker. Actually, it's been so long since I sent a written inquiry to the highest level. Secretary of finance that I have forgotten what that inquiry was all about. Still not entirely, because this is an important subject that would have been good to have answered now that the General Assembly is dealing with a public TV. Secretary of education. I submitted the inquiry on December 7, which is on the three sides, and it's on the way. - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. Have the Icelandic government, or in cooperation with other EFTA countries, determined the significance of the taxation legislation on digital services, such as the European Union and OECD, would have in Iceland? 2. Has it been evaluated whether Icelandic taxation is being introduced necessary for such cross-border taxation to function effectively in Iceland? 3. Does not Ministers consider it important to immediately begin working in Icelandic legislation on digital taxation so that Iceland will be ready to change countries in the European Economic Area when it comes to it? I don't know, chief. Mr President, what is the cause of this? The secretary of finance is bound to agree with these questions, but they are fundamental to the media environment in this country's environment and the disastrous competitiveness they have with international giants, which do not pay taxes and no wages, but take a bigger part in a commercial market. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u17	Mr. President. For the General Assembly, the government's bill is to purchase and protect a limited amount of narcotics, so-called consumers, that can be obtained. Just as the nation is breaking out from its viral epidemic, the government plans to deal with a drug epidemic that will make the world more difficult for young people. Doctors and police are working hard on the bill. A surgeon's office oversees the need to assess the effects, both expected and unexpected. Suggested suggestions such as these will affect other individuals and groups than those mentioned in the bill. The surgeon general points out that there is no clear suggestion or plan for further prevention. In conclusion, the office asks: "What are the benefits of this change? Iceland's Medical Association notes that no part of the bill is expected to perform similar activities in other countries where drug abuse has been legalized. Then the Medical Association points out that the bill does not attempt to define what is a dose of consumption. In view of the State Marshal's opinion, by making drug possession criminally, it went beyond the objective of the bill, i.e. the so - called high - alcohol consumption doses for themselves. A State Marshal reveals that in countries that are believed to have any mildest drug legislation that protects the criminal use of drugs. The Northland police chief says, with permission from the President: It is the opinion of the office that severe penalties are not used for the possession of drugs in Iceland. It is then noted that consumption is not prohibited but, rather, protected, sale, purchase, etc. The above comments show that the prime of the matter, that it must be turned away from harsh punishments, cannot resist. They're not there. The bill's agreement would be as if a wild beast were set free on the youth people of the country. Such an accident must be avoided.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u18	Mr. President. We'll start with this special discussion, and thank you very much. Minister for taking the time. We view sustainability as a password in a fishing road. It leads back to the endurance of a population that provides us with a set range of resources that will then be determined on the basis of careful research. The study of crops changes, including to acquire a good knowledge of the spread of species, to plan stock size, to investigate innovation, rate of growth, age distribution, and finally to hunt the fishing instruments along with their environmental impact, and to emphasize it strongly. A Meritional Research Institute is the source of such research in this country. She has over 4 billion years of choice and cooperates with foreign research institutions and participates in European research projects, so I'll name something. As a naturalist, I have been concerned about the use of institutions such as snognels, sea oedema, and lobsters, and in fact I have not understood the pattern of innovation that has been seen in the past decade or so. All of this is the most important stock of our country's population and the survival of many of our coastal cities. Snognel fishing reaches the order of 7,000 tons per year. There are about 20,000 barrels of eggs and exporting value at well over 3 billion years of age. Questions then arise about the fishing tolerance of this stock. The useful assessment of this stock is based on a relatively few fish caught by cords, and in some respects fishing in the shallows as well. I ask, " How can I add to the image that we have of enjoying a life of sobriety with these data in our hands? ' In addition to asking such questions, there is reason to remind you that the catcher must be fully used. That may take some time. New births so much better than ever. So, in fact, I advertise it after further research on the stock size and better use. Seawater is a fairly new supply. The species, called a surfbus, is plowed up in a way that is far beyond the fishing council for the past decade. Over the past few years, there have been 1,000 tons of fish in 2009 to 5,66,000 tons, with a steady stream of about 2,000 tons of fishing, or about 2,000 tons of about 100 pounds (U.S.). One-third of the catch. The species lives even. on rocky bottoms or rocks that are not easily touched by plows. Then you ask: " What can I do? Must we not strengthen our hunting advisers, knowing more about both the environmental impacts and the impact of their fishing efforts on the population of little known about the size of the land, and really its growth rate and spread over its heads? Finally, it is the font substitute for good, the valuable stock. Fishing was 2,500 tons per year in 2004/2010, but in 2018, it crashed into 728 tons, and between 2020 and 2021, the fishing contracts amounted to 214 tons and 143 tons. So it's not a big word to talk about the collapse of this root. I don't know how to explain it, but I'll let me point out overfishing. I refer to environmentally friendly fishing equipment, heavy trolls, and environmental changes in the ocean, changes in temperature and sell of the sea, and increased sea eutrophication because of the flow of glaciers. All of these may be a potential cause. But I ask them again, " What do I do? ' If we do research, the question is, How? Do we use traps to catch more than trolls? What do we need to understand in order to know more about this precious source? Now the beginning of the decade of the United Nations, 20213/4,2030, is under way. We need to strengthen the blue economy at this time. We need to improve our sustainable targets. We need to develop marine research, and most important, we need to find better ways to use marine products in a sustainable way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u19	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Ari Guðmundsson for the discussion that is about to begin. He had three questions pointed to me, and I sought advice from the Oceanographic Institute to answer them. I support the answers in the words I make. The powder food and advice of a grey patch are based on the establishment of spring-based bottom fish. This project, which has gone from 1985 to the current year, has averaged some 950 degrees of gray feet per year. This has been the case with Mr. Ragnkels at these stations in 283/453% of cases. An average of 570 points per year has been covered, so there are fewer stomachs in this facility than gray slips, which are much fewer. As a result, a marine research agency does not want to agree that its stocking on a gray patch is based on relatively few fish. However, it is estimated by the Marine Research Agency that the index for the size of the GDP from stock food provides a good picture of size and development of stock size and base size for the Agency to base the fishing strategy on this index. It shows that there was a good correlation between the catchment of the parish unit and the index number used, i.e. The groundwork of the bottomfish in the spring. In confirmation of this, this year's index was the highest from the beginning of the year, for only a good catch has been used. It should be noted that the stem test is a well-motivated device size. In addition, there are two annual run-in expeditions that are on the grid and mackerel channels that are gone to July. The answer is as good as good. A senator here refers to improvements in research, and we would like to conclude that there are mainly four factors below; further trends in gray branch dating, further studies of spawning, evaluation of spawning death, research in the teamwork of bacteria, and spread of different strains. Research on most of these factors is being carried out as finance allows for each occasion in the budget of the Marine Research Institute. An assessment of the fishing tolerance of the sea's oedema has included the building of fishing ships' fishing collections, but such approach has been difficult. So to strengthen sea oedema fishing counsels last year, it was decided to add standard cables and camera formats to sea oedema levels in a basic channel for better evaluation of changes in the population size of the sea oedema, regardless of fishing. It is hoped that in the coming years, the counseling can be based on these data, but of course it has to do with the Agency's funding. In terms of lobsters, methods used for root testing were modified 2016, from the use of lobster products in counting lobster holes using underwater cameras. This is in accordance with what the International Marine Research Agency has recommended for the development analysis. At the same time, 2018 began to gather lobster livers in this expedition to get food for the possible recent recruitment of the strain. Last autumn, behavioral studies were under attack to assess its efficacy and its use in holes, which may shed light on uncertainty factors in the root assessment. We specifically supported these tests by some department from the Ministry. A marine research agency cannot agree that the causes of growth in harrowing have been unknown and, in fact, not indiscriminately, but that a sustained recent failure has been in the lobster population for the past 16 years. The powder has fallen rapidly in recent years. This is seen in both the data as well as in fishing vessels in spite of technological advances in hunting. The powder is thought to collapse, i.e. under protection, and it is clear that if there is no strong exposure in lobster, at least Fifty-five:10 years before it takes real care of hunting again, and the strain's condition will improve. This position has been proposed by the Agency for the past few years, i.e. very limited fishing and closing areas to reduce exposure to lobsters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u20	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you for this discussion. This will include the discussion of events and studies of gray spots, sea oedema, and lobster. I'd like to mention the gray patch. It has been fished in this form from a core size study 2012, something like that. Each showed who the change was to put the gray patch in this form, which, with the pull of a tug. However, it has to be admitted that Edro's counseling was much bigger now than in recent years, and it is proved that fishing has never been as great as it is now. So there is something to consider, though it might be done much more carelessly. I'd like to use my second minute to talk about a species of fish that's not on the program. It's tired. Direct fishing on it was banned in 2012, something like that, and under Regulation how to associate with it as part of various fishing instruments, including lines, nets, and trolls. I've suggested that, because it is absolutely forbidden to land it as a force on a line, that it be allowed to land as a means of resources to help NTSA to see its appearance and growth. It has increased tremendously as a cohesive force, quite enormous. A marine research agency complains that there is no money to investigate and other such. If allowed, it would somehow be visible to the faces of the hatch. I am confident that much of what is released back into the sea will be destroyed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u21	Mr. President. I thank the advert for starting this discussion about crops in Iceland, about three beautiful species and quality. There are some indications that scientists do not have the necessary tools to provide sufficient perspective on the size and survival of institutions and on what limitations and possibilities are in exploiting them. Snognels or grizzly fishing are living examples, an important part of employment in a particular region of many lifetimes. One of the differences is simply the size and behavior of the gray patch stock, the laxness we have studied these and more species, and on preconceived grounds, in hunting advice, even using old hunting journals such as scientific data, from the time when all other methods of action began. Later, in 2003, the fishing for seawater began. Their increase was rapid, bringing the biggest fishing year of 2017/2018 or more than 5,400 tons. The following year, more than 1,760 tons were advised by Frodo. Yet, nearly half the number of fish was found to be nearly 3,200 tons last year. In Flatland, a factory that is expected to provide up to 10 people with work throughout the year in seawater work is currently being installed. At the same time, the fishing is being limited in every area from Western to gurska 300 tons, but it was well on a large scale of another thousand tons. What does that say? Not many words are involved in lobster fishing. It's been a complete collapse, now we've been catching 67% of what's been caught a decade ago. Isn't it true, Mr. President, that these institutions and others are being walked in an insurmountable way? Don't you think it's necessary to add a significant study of marine life to Iceland to provide marine research facilities and funding for needed research, as the advisor mentioned? [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. Is this a fishing regime that is reason to amass globally?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u22	A respectable president. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Ari Guðmundsson, take the initiative in this discussion. The more we are able to provide information on marine ecosystems and species, the greater potential for sustainable use, the protection of environment and ecosystems and the value of marine resources. Iceland, therefore, must at all times stress researching marine life, not only institutions we use but other species. Here today, the Swamp, the gray patch, the lobster, and sea oedema are particularly for discussion. Snogkils has probably been used since the beginning of Iceland, but sea oedema and lobster are less likely to end up living in deeper depths and less accessible while we were in control of less technologies. Thoughts that wake up to me in the preparation of knowledge, when starting a new source with neither scientific knowledge from Iceland nor the seaman's knowledge source, are there any guidelines for cooperation between pioneers and the Marine Research Institute for Enlightenment when new institutions begin. V.E.G. Minister, isn't there good reason for such cooperation and special work? In 2003, for example, the fishing for seawater began. The largest total power goes to 5,500,000 tons, but this year only 2,200 tons and in recent years are published. Vetera's advice is made up of assessments of fishing tolerance from different areas and sources for experimental fishing outside the top 50 tons per chamber. I wondered, " How is this information made to increase knowledge of the trunk? ' Since it is so different that it is normal for the fishermen to be tormented, I stress that a professional employment committee is attacking the laying on of a fishing bill, even though it is part of a bigger and controversial matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u23	A respectable president. What a delightful discussion! V.E.G. A minister briefly reviewed what is being done in research at the Marine Research Institute in relation to the types asked here. Hv. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson mentioned the nerds specifically, and I found his speech interesting. I have to say, in this discussion, I feel that there is a certain lack of discussions about climate change and the effects they will have on the sea and that they will already have on the sea. I think the discussion is much of the question of overfishing, normal. Well, that's why we have a greeting system, i.e. to avoid overfishing. But we are faced with major changes in the oceans, as well as on other earth's ecosystems, in the coming decades. Some of these things we know, some of them we do not know, and other factors enable us to guess from probability. There are factors such as acidification, rising temperatures, changing food selections for species and such, except, of course, technological advances in hunting. I wondered if it might also have asked, and I cast it forward to the highest. The minister of this talk, whether in studies used in the future, in the coming decades, does not need to give particular attention to what we can expect after a decade, or two or three or four, due to climate change and the effects we know will have on the environment of the sea. I suppose, though we have always had to examine these species, regardless of climate change, there is more reason to give in when it comes to research. It's not only about the different interests of the question but also about the fact that here we are actively eating with a common enemy of climate change.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u24	A respectable president. I want to thank you for an interesting discussion, which is exactly what forces us here, and the conventions of the administrations, and the legal environment, so that we can be careful at these times. I'd like to take my heart to that word as it were. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson fell earlier on climate change. At the same time, it is an underlying tone by the bottom. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson in regard to the importance of research, that we support our principal scientific institutions, which, in my opinion, are an Merit Research Institute in this case, as well as other scientific institutions such as Iceland's University. I think the key is that we do everything within our power to improve Merro independence, including interest stakeholders, it's natural old history and new, so that it can gain independence for research on financial foundations, as well as to consider marine ecosystems, how climate change is affected, because it has a tremendously short and long - term impact. It also affects our credibility as a fishing nation. It's important. Even though we're at the highest. A marine minister is arguing on what is a natural fee, arguing over the terms of the constitution, we agree that we should continue on the successful course that was considered in my opinion a long time ago, i.e. based on sustainable fishing, supported by scientific counseling. It's the red thread of our fishing regime. We must not let that strand slide or even cut it apart and then pause it afterwards. For lobsters, sea oedema, snorkels, the gray patch there are signs of air that obviously tell us that we have not supported enough in the Marine Research Institute, and that our waters point sufficiently at how we can build up to a shorter and longer time for this. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, I would like to say that I support the Minister in his efforts to cross the stage. He's brought a bill in here that I think is worth all the attention. [[The president calls.]] But the key is that we are trying to deal with the challenges we face, and they are pretty serious when it comes to this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u25	A respectable president. For a gray patch, we know that it will spawn in the shallow land of the sea and then grow up in the highest layer of the ocean in the vastness of the oceans. This fish's stock size is an empty mix-up, which is best seen in the huge shoddy gangs that have been on the shores of our country now and still stand and do not seem to pass away. Ideas have been far beyond what could be read from the so - called advice provided by the National Research Institute. It would be almost that they were made to concentrate on the study of biology and the data on the spread of wrinkles, but they sit in length and calculate everything in stock sizes based on an unsolvable database. From time to time, gray - free boats can overseal this strain. Its fishing is done on the coast, and the coasts of Iceland are enormously long and preposterous to several online legends that fish for a few weeks that make a difference in the spring. However, the question is, Should you look beyond the size of a hunting horseels, with the resources of floating fishing vessels, the total size as well as the length of distribution and the age of such snoggings, and the oceans? This information may provide valuable information on the spread of spits in the ocean. They would be obtained by research that would be performed on Navy radio orders and that would include the gray slip ordinarily go into research and registration. President. Certainly, all our studies need to be reevaluated and taken into consideration by reformal reviews. Actually, it's all about our sea and fish research. As a fish-fishing nation, we can only pursue major biological and ecological research in the seas around Iceland. We in the Hoggi people want more of these tests, but less of the useless observations based on the same shit as when Sölvi Helgason was said to have calculated twins into a woman and was one blacker than the other white. There's nothing to it with real science. A respectable president. Of course, increasing research on all species in this country, especially their biology and the spread of the marine ecosystems and Iceland's environment, has to be done tiresomely. - I'll be in the second speech for hum and sea oedema.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u26	Mr. President. Of course, wealth needs to be based on the best scientific knowledge as well as on the new knowledge of those who have used the resource through the years, sailors. The fishing management of local species must therefore always be based on strong basic studies of different species, whether of the Snognels, sea oedema, urchin, or lobster. It certainly raised questions about the dependability of the Edro and on the basis of counselling when the counseling for the fishing year rose by 74% between years; but last year, fishing was stopped in a nonsense hunt when the fishing of the Pacific was just beginning. Thus, research based on truism raises doubts on its own. Strong research is needed at the base. In 2008, the Biopol Marine Society in Skaga Beach has studied rice in cooperation with sailors and Oceans. It is important to make the most of the research and the scientific knowledge there has been built up. The use of sea water and sea urchins and sea urchins is going to increase, and the use of these species will require much more research around the country. The structure of an enterprise in these articles calls for a local hunting control based on regional research. The situation of lobster stock has been a major concern during the past few years, and further studies have called for the poor recruitment of lobsters and the effects of powerful tug - fishing devices that harm the bottom and lobster holes. However, increasing numbers in fish now hope that innovation is increasing, but it is interesting to watch experimental fishing, which are now overblown with lobster traps in areas where such fishing has not been practiced before. There may be many traps among those who will eventually take more space in diverse fishing opportunities.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u27	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Ari Guðmundsson for this discussion and the Minister for quick answers. First, I want to say that I don't have enough money or space to do all the research we'd like to see. Grey escapes, aquaculture, and lobsters are among the species that need more time and money for research. The gray patch is studied at the puller panel, which paints a picture of the strain's position but does not provide enough information for many people. Sea oedema has not been studied much, but it is based on the fishing of other nations and its research into them. At the beginning of this election period, my initiative was to meet at the job committee with the Merro, the developers, and lobster workers because of the bad standing of the lobster stock. Now it's time for the powder to collapse. A few years ago, it was common for a five - hour - long duke to acquire 200 to 300 pounds [200,300 kg] of lobsters. Now it is time for a five - hour - long - hour - pull to be the product of a five - pound [5 kg] lobster diaper during this season. Experienced sailors and captains with decades of experience no longer know the lobster trails they fished so well in years before. More research is needed to determine whether too large a ship or too heavy a fishing tool will affect the lobster habitat's habitat that it is damaged. A respectable president. After lobster fishing, only large lobsters were caught. There was no recruitment, and it scared men. Climate change, some say. An Icelandic lobster in cold waters is spawned once every two years when the same stock is spawned once a year in warmer waters, so it is not effective. As we expand our research into these institutions, we need to keep in mind our experiences with the best men in the shipship class who know lobsters like their palm. A respectable president. As soon as we have to improve the ability to study and assess fish stocks and to produce them, the damage to the lobster stocks has been caused by the collapse of the lobster stock. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u28	Mr. President. First, I want to thank you for this discussion. It is never too much to talk about, for fishing is still one of our basic elements. That is why this discussion is also important. I agree with a saying not to expand research on the strains mentioned here, i.e. ... ontheseaseasea,slums and grey slips. I'd also like to use this opportunity to show that I believe that big ones have studies in their fur, their behavior, and their spawning patterns and walking patterns. It is well known that the lobster stock has crashed in the last decade. Almost no newcomers have been in the lobster stock since 2010 to 2011, but older lobsters have been sustained for several years thereafter. Now it's time for us to hunt only less than 10% of what was here 10 to 12 years ago, so there's something big going on. The pull has grown dramatically, the pulls of the lobsters have become much more powerful, and with more pull than it was a few years ago. Admittedly, this affects the lobster habitat, and it needs to be examined. Whatever causes the root's collapse, which, of course, may end up in the very absence of this fishing for a while, has also been a fall in sandsil and seabirds in the southern part of the country, and also in the bowling and blue - long setting, some of which appear to have been recovering for the past few years, so this is not limited to the lobsters. I want to finish my point of pointing out that lobster fishing is very important on the South Coast, especially the Cape of the Hornfjord and the Western Islands. I suggest that the council also consider how to deal with such important types of employment, fall into so much jewelry, and much in certain territories.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u29	Mr. President. We are surrounded by productive fishing grounds. The fishing and development of seafood is one of the main foundations in the development of the Iceland welfare state. The policy of the government in the fishing industry is to promote the sustainable and responsible use of living natural resources in seawater, based on a solid scientific foundation. The SFS Association has proposed a proposal for understanding the financial agenda for the years 2022 placed in it many interesting things that I can say. There they will discuss them, even. that when economic downturn is going on, and particularly related to Covid, all markets are particularly sensitive and selling fluctuation. They need to look for more tools. They believe that it is very important to develop and improve significant research on marine life and that a marine research agency will provide adequate funding for needed research. I agree here very much. A new financial program 20222/226 shows the following, with the permission of a president: The budget is strongly based on financial and financial policies and funding of 2021 and has been updated only because of the greater changes resulting from up-to-date national forecasts and, in some cases, regional changes at the 3rd Environment. budgets that had not been taken into account in the current schedule. Mr. President. Careful research is the basis for our sea resources to be used in a responsible and sustainable way. It is therefore set up that expenses for the Marine Research Agency can provide a broad range of benefits. Increased studies of the utilisation of a number of smaller fish species must be performed in an acceptable way. This could result in many opportunities throughout the country, and opportunities could arise in fragile areas. Studies on the use of a number of smaller fish stocks have never been approved. That's not good enough. It is necessary and it is long time to arrange for a better - looking research program.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u30	A respectable president. This is a good discussion, an important one, and I will be in this afternoon's talk to me for a moment. We often view scrawl as a small fish, holding to shallow waters, and even on the same beach all the time. By no means! He lives at a hard bottom of 20 to 200 m deep, but outside the spawning season, he often feels deep in the ocean. There has been a problem with food during the last few years, but some adjustments, including some, have been made. we eat at the hunt, back in time. However, research on the stock size and survival of the knog has been carried out, as shown in the case of the highest degree. Minister before, show somewhat consistent results on stock size estimates and the grey-free waste for each spring. However, experience shows that there is also good reason to look to other standards for achieving a better context in the wide range of data available and to shape a scale to cover the future. Since 2008, the BioPol Marine Coast studies in the life - style and behavior patterns of horses have shown that extensive travel of individual fish along the coasts of the United States has taken many people by surprise. It brings to mind a number of new technologies that will increase the opportunity for ocean research, such as a variety of technology for telecommunications, both the surface of the sea and the bottom. But then, as discussed in the discussion, it is very important to encourage innovation in using all the resources that come up in the country, otherwise we will not be able to sustain ourselves. Finally: Should not local research agencies, such as Marine Research Institutes, contribute more to general education and information, writing in English, to the position of individual species to promote general knowledge of the sea?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u31	A respectable president. This is totally normal and we expect interest when we have to limit the use of any resource to preserve the resource itself. It is normal for one person to feel that he is too new and that others are too little new. I guess there's a very clear, statistical pattern between where people come from and what they think. The question here is: Do not need to expand research on various species and reorganize them. The answer to that question, I suppose, is simply: Yes, it is necessary, it is appropriate. I listened carefully to a talk at the highest. Minister and felt that it did not express itself clearly in his reply, which I consider important to you to be very clear. [[Up front.]] - Yeah, I trust the highest. A minister to answer for himself below as usual. But I would like to remind them that any uncertainty that arises because research is not thorough enough, for whatever reason it is, caution must be required and thus reduced use, so there may be a direct investment in increasing research and thus making better use of the materials. But also, as shown in a fine talk. A member of the Central Party earlier often experiences from seawater other than the one prescribed by the fishing council. That situation on its own is unfortunate, respectable president. It is far better that fishing advice be based on evidence and research that is conclusive in the eyes of all present at the table, but then an EEC should have financial ability to care for the research needed. This is not said to minimize another excellent idea at present. A member of the Central Party earlier. At any rate, I can see that the answer is: Yes, extra research is needed in these substances, especially in order to improve the use of the resource and manage it better.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u32	A respectable president. Sea oedemas and font lobsters - first extend to the sea oedema. Several boats have been fishing on them in the past few years. Sodes are invertebrates that can't be dated and can't be divided into rivers. No doubt these organisms lack considerable research and are largely unexplored. The catchers must be closely monitored for their targets in designated fishing areas but also for the size of the catch. A musterered the right to set a salutation on this hunt, since nothing is known about the size or development of the fishing industry. A more efficient way to sustain sustainable innovation is to get involved with environmental fishing tools and the watchful eye for the catch in a parish unit. It may also be asked, " Is it not a reason to try to find out how and how the furrows that are drawn from the ocean are damaging other life on the bottom or whether the catch will lead to changes in ecosystems? ' However, in May 2018, Bergur Garðarsson, the captain of the Avminai, who is the head of this fishing industry, says that in a conversation with Fish News, men have taken up furrows that are riding instead of skiing, and the bottom is better. In the same interview, it seems that the eating process resulted in a robbery of the tickets, where men were repeatedly dragging the same spots to get a hunting experience that could be the basis for a greeting. How long will it take to rest after they have been drawn? Clearly, time and experience have taught a number of things about sea oedema, and hopefully the Oceanographic Institute is watching closely. Then the lobster. That's where the fishing has completely collapsed and the trunk is in place. What Is the Cause? New-onset failure. But why? Is puberty a lobster gone because of overfishing or plundering? Or it is the forces of nature because of abduction of other species, such as cods and perhaps macroils. What about the instruments of fishing that have been used? You can pay attention to the question why. paritaprevir Sæland Haranda to the highest. Secretary for lobster fishing in 149. There are some things that are interesting to note, but unfortunately, there is no time for more tearing it up in this discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u33	Mr. President. I'm sorry to have misinformed about the number of tug-wheat fish when it came to the horseskins, I've just been misinformed about it. But what a joy it is if good schemes lie ahead of us and have been ahead of us! Perhaps it is written on some aspect of ocean warming. Of course, we need to provide counseling in line with management and other factors, and there is plenty of basis for further investigation in these areas. For these lobsters, new research techniques are promising, but I intend to argue that there has been overfishing, especially because fishing methods are changing and using a very large, heavy troll. The contraction of sea oedema indicates overfishing, and the catch must be adjusted to the top. 2,000 tons are even too much. Who knows? These tests are very short. Climate change. I discussed it in my opening talk just how important they are and how environmental changes they bring. It is, in fact, that most of the integrated causes cause of sudden collapse of fish stocks or other species of animals in nature, we need to be careful not to focus on something but to find out what it is, whether it is for lobster or sea oedema. My conclusion is, we can't relax, but we can guarantee enough money, equipment, and the amount of human resources for more intensive marine and environmental research than we have been. I want us to increase them, and I also want us to make sure that sustainability is not just a concept in a good day but is actually a bright light in all the natural worlds of Iceland, especially in sea uses.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u34	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for the discussion that has taken place, and especially the saying, okay? paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson. There's been a considerable discussion of the environment and climate issues and its impact on what we're doing about research, and then I'd like to mention, and I'd like to mention it. cope with a word. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, a planned report from the National Institute of Marine Research at a lower request for environmental and ecosystem change in the Iceland Sea. The main question there is what is going on in the ocean, and it presents the major challenges faced by climate impacts. The Agency will draw up potential scenarios and how to best react in view of the emphasis the government will have to put in the years to support research on this important resource. That's well, and I think there's a lot of harmony in this discussion as often as there are times before that we should be strengthening basic research as best we can at each occasion. We obviously have opinions about the fishing system, but I'd like to reiterate that Iceland's fishing system is in fact twofold. On the one hand, it is biological and biological; however, it is the control of hunting on the basis of what we decide on the total resources. We agree on the basis of scientific counseling, and thankfully we follow it in all the basics. Then there is the conflict over the control of the fish. But government messages to the fishing industry have been: maximising the results of this limited resource as much as possible, and you have considerable freedom to do so. Of course, there are always political differences over how far or how much material it should go. Thank you so much for the discussion that has taken place here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u35	President. I just really hope that the translation will not be a law-enforcement in order to keep the government out of freezing. I'm most afraid this will be the only birthday gift of the government to Iceland's Environment Association for the 60th birthday, i.e. The translation, not the legalization. I really hope that the law will not be frozen just because we have a good translation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u36	Mr. President. Did you know that two years ago, the Allied agreed that the Convention was due to be legalized on the rights of disabled people? Did you know that six months ago the government was supposed to have provided a bill on legalization? Did you know that the government is a means of execution and that it must be carried out by the council's will? Did you know that no legal bill has come out of the government despite the clear will of the council? The government has no choice here in my opinion. But is this government really serious to let this case all over, a case involving the human rights of disabled people and desperate people in Iceland, do you? This case we just voted for here is about the translation, good and good, but there is still a legal firm. I'd like to announce legalization of the bill we've all agreed to have the government come forward. Where's the bill, chief? Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u37	Mr. President. How happy we are to vote for a new translation of the United Nations Treaty on the rights of disabled people because a previous translation has been criticized by the association of disabled people and professionals! It is fundamentally fundamental, and I wonder a bit about the discussion here, for us who fight for legalisation of the agreement that there is a translation of which is at peace. How happy we are, therefore, that we here vote for the translation, and in the discussion of the Committee it is found to be at peace with them, not only with those of particular concern as well as teachers of the topic field.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u38	A respectable president. This is an important step, although only a step toward establishing the United Nations Convention on Infirm People. Two years ago, we have to legalize him, it was decided and agreed that he should. So everyone voted, except for two members of the Independence Party who did not support that matter. There's not much time left, and there's a lot of business that the government's running in here, and I would have thought it not only desirable but necessary and dignified that the government had introduced here to play a bill that would legalize the United Nations agreement on the rights of disabled people. That would have been a real pain in the ass. I will say yes to this matter. But this is just one step. We need to take a much greater step in behalf of our people, in behalf of the most needed, and in harmony with the unambiguous will of our U.S. legislators.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u39	Mr. President. This is the fourth bill we're accepting at this council that has turned toward the sexal autonomy and rights of people whose sexual registration has changed their sex registration. This is an enormous source of joy, and we have been making tremendous changes to ensure human rights in our society. I am indeed glad that this table is all green, and we have completed four primes to this class.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u40	Mr. President. I say yes to this, but I just wanted to say again, as I did here last time, that a complete review of the laws that concern personal rights will be conducted. It is not enough just to update the wording but to view it as a whole so that the rights for all will remain in the law and cover all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u41	A respectable president. I've had some mean trouble making up my mind about how I'm going to vote on the final payment of this case. As famous as it has become, I am a great spokesman for having special, external, independent, and good surveillance of police activities and practices. In part, the objective of this bill is to increase the small monitoring available. I'm next inclined to sit down because I don't feel that it's enough. I'm sorry, but I think it's a local attitude that the police are basically trustworthy. That's not the question, Mr. Honorable President, but the nature of the agency. It is a power agency that uses physical authority as needed. It is great power and requires careful monitoring. I'm going to lock green on this bill this time, but I'd like to come up here and describe this notice and my opinion that there will be an up-to-date follow-up of police activities.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u42	President. I'd like to explain why I'm going to sit by the vote on this bill. I agree with what. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson says it's really good to be making these changes on this committee, but this is a very small step. Six. The bill simply states that it is permitted to give police authority to foreign police officers in Iceland. This article is not fully explained. There's not a good line on what this means, and I don't think it's a good law when a number of different laws are put together in one bill, and we have to say yes or no to all of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u43	Mr. President. That is correct. paritaprevir Olga Margrét Cilia says there are several distinct elements involved in this bill that include changes in the law of police. This is not an overall review of this legislation. Three major factors are under way. Police councils are being established or supported to further the cooperation of police officers. They're ensuring recovery for cooperation with foreign police authorities, including with the authority of foreign police officers, although they are always under government custody. Third, police activities are under way to strengthen the position of the surveillance committee. All of this is progress, and that's why I support the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u44	A respectable president. How happy we are that we are putting this matter to the finish! I say, the restoration of the mine has begun. This bill is a great deal of justice and joy for the entire education system, especially students. This involves increasing equality for study. The bill is part of a national work programme to promote field and technical education and work together with the number of strategists. That's a lot of joy, and I'd like to thank you. A top-of-the-art Board of Education for all the work and for all the people who've been involved in this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u45	A respectable president. I'll agree with the highest. Minister, I think it's a lot of joy that we're accepting this here, and I support that whole mind. I myself have spoken similarly, No. 269 p.m. 300, about the changes in these same songs that go on the same thing. There is another approach that has been made to further cooperation with the university community, which should be welcomed. That's why I support this whole matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u46	Mr. President. We now vote for changes in traffic laws, covering a wide range of factors, simplifying the process, explaining the terms of specific laws and paying for the implementation of EU regulations. Changes have been made in 15 of the 2019 traffic laws, most of which are positive and serve their purpose well. However, the Group of Congress cannot support any change in unit 1. the bill that suggests an increase in the maximum quality of the ecosystems. The party supports the change in plans. paritaprevir Andrés, son of Ingi Jónsson, that the law will remain the same from today's.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u47	Mr. President. In current traffic laws, the maximum tunnel speed is 10 miles [10 km] or the speed closest to walking because of the safety of undefeated road users in the common space of walking people and cars. The bill suggests to increase this rate from 10 miles to 15 miles for one reason, apparently, there is an increased economy for drivers who might be at risk of driving too fast and are guilty of doing so, even driving a driver's license deportation if they run it much faster. This is a reverse trend on the wrong grounds, so this bill's directive is hereby ordered to remove and stand at the maximum speed of 10 miles in the current law.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-93.u48	President. I just want to thank you. The board of directors and monitoring committees for good and cohesive activities in these areas and congratulates us all on closing this half-century old chapter on Mount Heather. We can be proud of it.
