ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u1	Mr. President. It is a pleasure to know that more than 90% of the population have been surveyed to support the measures taken in the battle against Covid-19 and thus support the actions that health ministers and trinkets have had in the past year. We've gotten this far together in this struggle. We are in the first place among the nations in this fight, and that is important. It doesn't happen by itself. They need to be led. To ensure public health in the country and to minimize the damage caused by this cursed virus, the nation must be consistent with health authorities at one time. Now we're on the final meters, that I think, and we need to keep on holding up and showing solidarity on the final meters, for, of course, the public interests of the public should always go ahead of the particulars and public health of the public are not to be threatened. Off to this are the treatment laws. We will see that by the end of this week, there will be 70 years of age and older fully vaccinated. Our forward-liners are being vaccinated, and by the end of June, everyone is targeted for vaccination, and I hope it will work. I reiterate that it is important that the lawgiver come in there and take action with the health authorities when the Lawgiver has to be consulted. We must not allow a small crowd to mislead us in these matters. We've been able to make this so strong together. We're not supposed to start arguing about the emperor's beard. [[The president calls.]] We are achieving this result, and we have achieved it together and are to be proud of it as a nation. We made it together.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u2	A respectable president. Equal, moderate, righteous are words that are often used in the General Assembly. Everyone is equal to the law, says the Constitution, but do we do it? Do we see this in the laws and regulations that we approve here at Congress that everyone is equal to the law? Is it fair and just for a fine to treat people in a gross way based on what the person pays? Where is justice and fair in that the person on the minimum wage pays in fines, while the person on the top of the budget pays 5 to 10% of his monthly wages for the same offense? Depending on the severity of the offense, if there is a violation of the transmissible regulations, the fine will be 50,000 to 250,000. $250,000. is paid a month's wages for many of the pensions from the Social Security and an incredibly large group of poorer and older citizens are still less paid and are subject to death by the government. $250,000. A fine for this group will lead to starving and cruel punishment compared to a person who receives 1 billion. K. per month. Guilt should have the power to cut down laws and rules. Isn't it? No, evidently not because they are made to punish the poor and invite the rich to violate five, ten, 20 times more often than their financial situation is to suffer. The same is true of a person who is attacked, injured, and has a right to recovery. Insolentness must then itself get an attorney and pay for it, i.e. if he can afford it. If he does not, he will seek athing, which no one will ever get. Of course, the criminal's getting a lawyer on the order of the state, and he doesn't have to be able to afford it. Is it not true that everyone is equal in law and is not subject to economic punishment? No, by their economic standards, people are being revered. It's been around a year and it's just getting worse. Equality, moderate, justice, fairness is just for the chosen one. Sadly, though, the majority of people are not invited to that group.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u3	A respectable president. The campaign started some three weeks ago. This morning the media reported that some 1,800 new jobs had been registered to the Labour Department since the beginning of the campaign. This is truly good news, and it is evident that businesses and, to some extent, organizations are accepting to share in this work. The method used in creation is also important because it specifically addresss the problems of those who have been working without a job for at least 12 months. The overall stake, as any member of Congress knows, can become up to 7,000 jobs in this cooperation between the state, rural society, institutions, social partnerships and businesses, and the demand that will hopefully be achieved in relation to the opening of society following a successful series. As we have seen in the media this morning, Iceland is second in the North countries and in the middle of the 10 to 15th. Sitting in the world, depending on where they say it. Hopefully, this job will bring us, together with a job campaign for students, that we get on with the economy more quickly. Now winter and summer is on the way, and I'd like to encourage special companies, organizations, societies and members of society to participate in this effort because there's an opportunity and we're supposed to help get hold of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u4	Mr. President. For the Allied Council, the bill leads the secretary of finance and economics to the same degree. changing the law on the insurance policy of pension rights and the operation of pension funds. There's a few things about this bill to check, but I'm going to discuss just one point. There is a change in the insurance policy of a pension so that it will be rewarded every year instead of every month at this time. Repeat: Resurrected from an uncut command, at least from 1997, pensions change monthly according to the change in the index price of consumers to the increase in pensions only once a year. As we have recently had in recent years, an apocalyptic disaster continued for a year and sees how this could affect the interests of older people. The bill says nothing about the motive of this change or purpose. It is explained by one sentence that changing projects can greatly reduce the government's requirements for reimbursement due to an underestimation of pension funds at the beginning of the year. Mr. President. This explanation could not be more painful. It speaks of a changed project that seems to cover over the failings of change. The change, however, is to help an insurance agency with a plan. The here - called cutting - off damage involves all their funds, mainly older people, who are already taking over pensions from a pension fund but also other funds, all of the population. No report follows the bill on how to influence financial interests. There is no report on the financial status of pensions. The leaders of labor movement make serious comments to the bill and say that it did not work together. Mr. President. Older citizens are concerned about the uncertainty the bill provides for their economic and financial advancement. This uncertainty must be eliminated immediately. Mr. President. A general council would not offer such a defective bill to be submitted and should be reassigned by a financial minister. [[The president calls.]] In any case, these plans of the government will be firmly opposed to the votes of older citizens.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u5	A respectable president. On Sunday, a visitor to Egill son of Helgason, Professor Páll Þórðarson, was living in Australia. It was interesting, I now have to say, especially for a woman like me, who has called from January 2020 that we should close the border to unnecessary traffic, for me which is probably one of the few who realize it, seems to be, that the virus does not fall out of clouds or comes with solar rays or rainwater. It's coming through the border. Professor Páll Þórðarson told us that a recent agricultural show was held there by 700,000 people. He told us that there were people in an elevator, and there were no masks, and there was nothing. There's freedom in Australia. There are freedoms in Taiwan, New Zealand and other places. Yes, we can say that we have done fine wrong. Only 29 people have died here. Only seven thousand people have been infected with Covid here. We're always coming and going, but we'd never do anything if it wasn't the nation that was strong by the authorities of the disease. Political took no responsibility at first, not at all. Everything was put on the CDC. In Australia, this is exactly the case, so there is a 14 - day habitually, a drug addict. It is a government that puts such rules in place, and it is quite remarkable that there should be laws on the disease that could not even support the regulations that were to be authorized by a psychiatrist to do the work he felt were necessary to protect our lives and our health. A respectable president. Hv. A member of the council I value came here with great joy and talks about how well we were doing and says that it's over. [[The president calls.]] Then I'm going to say that it's so far from the end of the day. This morning, it was apparent that there were three infections in this area, each one on his own end of the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u6	A respectable president. Both from the so - called left direction and the so - called right direction, and no doubt from the so - called middle direction, if available, appear in a general debate of confidence in the authorities and, at least, with reduced perceptions. I believe that at some point this distrust may break in our face, although now it is crushed and not very loud, because if people lose their faith in democracy, there is nothing left but violence and we don't want to see it, I expect firmly. Part of the reason, I suppose, for this increased distrust, is that the legislator and the executives do not show the trust they feel they deserve to participate in the decision-making process on their own. If we had, for example. in the Constitution of the regulations that 10% of voters could bring in binding national law on a case adopted by the General of the Council would simply not be able to say that the Council gave a law entirely by personal interest and that we would all be some hookers who would just do what they wanted to do no matter what the election was and what was done. That wouldn't be possible, Mr. Honorable President. It would be good if this could not be said because it would reduce the suspicion we have and I fear that it will increase over the next few years, especially if we still experience one more blow at a time when it is possible to blame politicians for, right or wrong. It is therefore important that we put in the constitution of the regulations that will directly allow the voters to make the decision presented here. It is not only that such a thing is possible in some absolute situation but that the voter will experience it in his own eyes that he is in charge.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u7	V.E.G. President. During the last few weeks, a change in the screening program for cervical cancer has been discussed with Icelandic women. The response of the governments involved is either to destroy the matter or to claim that there are unnecessary fears. Women are told either that they are informed about the results of screening in the country.is or at health level. Many people do not have electronic identification, for example. Women want a call or a friendly letter with a conclusion and proper direction on the next steps. There are no answers from the screening samples taken this year. In the national arrangement until the end of the year, a letter published a phone number for the Iceland Cancer Society or Hospital in Akureyri, followed by the session. It may not be a matter of day - to - day concerns to determine if any cell changes have occurred, but all waiting and unsure weeks and months cause anxiety and anxiety on the part of women. It's about their families, and so for all of us. V.E.G. Health Minister, is this really your best invitation to Icelandic women and their families just before the summer of 2021? More than a month ago, women met with a health minister on this matter and gave 5,440 signatures to challenge the case. Now stop ignoring this letter and warnings from the medical community and others. V.E.G. President. The hospital says that within three weeks, the results can be published. Some women have been waiting for the results of this report in December and have no idea where the vision is located today. This place is unacceptable to the highest level. Secretary of health.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u8	Mr. President. Yesterday, the council was scheduled for a new bill. A health minister to legalize the use of drugs. At the same time, the law of drug abuse has received a new title, now called criminal abuse. If we are discussing young people, there is no doubt that the most serious problem we face is drug abuse. Uncontrolled addiction to these substances has merely said harmful effects on very many people; consumers, addicts, and even all of them. In my decades of law enforcement work, I became tangible about this, despair, hopelessness, and helplessness, and it was often a life - and - death struggle. All too many fall into that fight. It's a bill. It's a TV. A health minister goes on a material scale to authorize the purchase and possession of drugs. The bill, however, stands as a strip of iron. Thus, as with all such nations, there are no side operations on health, treatment, or law enforcement. So here, Mr. President, there is a ill-prepared and unthinking bill. Is there any sense that there's more to it here at the council for this bill? The police can expect consumers to wave at her front. Salesmen will be hiding among consumers, and the police will be unable to do anything. No one will celebrate this bill more than the merchants of death. The consumers will not be given additional treatments, advice, and their language to deal with the problem. Then those in the bill with sunglasses will tell you that this is the way others are going. But it isn't, Mr. President. That's wrong. There's only one word for this: advertising. What has been the experience of other nations? In Portugal, drug abuse in youths did not increase three times over 20 years since 1995. The same is true in the Netherlands. In over ten years, the percentage of young people who had tried canabis increased tripled. [[The president calls.]] But in Iceland it is exactly three times as much as in Holland. Shall we take this chance, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u9	Mr. President. You could give a long talk about all the false talk in your last talk, but I'm going to talk about eradication of disease. You see, the world has managed to eliminate two whole diseases, i.e. Smallpox and bovine plague. There are many other efforts to eradicate disease. It is remarkable to think that today the world is facing an effort to eradicate a new disease, the Covid's disease, which was not available two years ago, and this must be called a very interesting and remarkable project. Today, the vaccine is not easily vaccinated by countries. Iceland is just above Europe's average, and that's fine. We are far behind other countries, e.g. The shop that almost went from 0% to 85% vaccination rate over a few weeks. Israel has reached 60%, America is very high, etc. But very many countries around the world are behind us, and we must bear in mind this large context that even if we all get vaccinated in Iceland, new variants in other parts of the world can arise that could threaten us in the future. There's so much need for us to master this whole thing. Then, too, we need to be careful to examine the correct numbers in all of this. Much has been said about the dangers of blood clots. Now Johnson and Johnson vaccines were taken out in the United States because of the risk of them. That's right, you need to look at these things - scientists are good at this and you expect to be very careful about all things - but the risk of blood clots from the Covid disease itself is much higher. [[The president calls.]] There is good reason to put all of this in perspective and to remember that we are dealing with this big disease together, and when it is done, there are plenty of other diseases to deal with.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u10	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson here referred to a project that is one of the many government projects that have taken in an effort to soften the blow we have suffered because of the effects of the crown virus epidemic and that seems to promise well in view of the information that this project is designed to provide a number of opportunities that have not yet been given. Reports of the economic effects of the Korean epidemic have been somewhat misleading. In some ways, the results they present to us today, according to economic measurements, suggest that the negative effects are less than we were concerned during the past year, that the impact of the economy is not as much as we were concerned. Nevertheless, it is quite significant, and it is true that in public discussion, this blow affects industry, regions, and individuals in general, so that certain groups have been seriously affected by this while others do not feel it, at least not at all. Despite a financial recession, the financial boost of the majority of people has grown, while those who have lost jobs or jobs because of their influence have experienced a great deal of pain. Of course, it is important for us to take temporary measures, such as necessary. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson mentioned. Most important, though, the recovery of the economy as soon as possible is, not by public action, but by public interest in the economic situation of growing and prospering. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u11	A respectable president. Southnes have historic unemployment. I think it's my duty, both past and present, to point out opportunities involved in the construction of the defense zone at Keflavík Airport, Hifavík Harbor, and forestry, and now at the last time, to provide surveillance on people at the Galding Valley. Some people like to call it a groundkeeping, and they're good. Those who constantly talk about unemployment were opposed to life - support by Icelanda, who had thousands of Southnesics working for work, talking down the tourism services, and have no suggestions for supporting the job and creating jobs in Southnes, are on the wrong route. In an article I wrote, I suggested that I create jobs to help people at Ginginginga Valley, and to quote it, by permission, by a dignified president, who is involved in creating jobs: In the South, there is the largest unemployment in the country, and a lot of the experienced people who are doing surveillance and observation work at the Chefjordur Airport. Work to help people come to the country, so they are trained to care for and guide people. Most of them speak more than one language. Why not use the energy of these people to monitor and assist tourists at the Hostages in Gingingad Valley? The organization and management of the surveillance work can be true among police and reactants, but the jobs needed to do and demand the presence may come from people who have been waiting to be released from unemployment records. By making use of the resources established by the Labour Organization, and the government has approved and financed, if not hundreds, can produce tens of them in a new field. The task is most important in the hands of Grindís, but in the light of circumstances, the SSS, the Southnes Community organization, is behind the project to initiate it. Each new job will be paid about 450. K. per month plus holiday or less than 500 you have. K. from the Labour Department. Then you might think of some form of currency at the expense of the project. So there is no basis for being a private member who will handle this project with the support of rural society and the State until other funding is determined. - And the project will be self-sustained. By creating dozens of jobs in the security and surveillance work at Gingingad Valley, unemployment, where it is the most difficult and heavier, is under the control of new employment tools instead of improving.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u12	A respectable president. Last week, I had the privilege of being invited to a meeting at the National Association of older citizens, as I believe many members of the council have been invited. The EU currently meets a representative of all political parties at the General Assembly. It has spread to us the priorities of the National Association of Older Citizens and has five points in this fine, monolingual language. No. 1 that older people get to work as they please; No. 2 at the end of the procedure driven by skill, not by age; No. 3 that the health care will be the cradle of aging services; No. 4 Between Home and Home No. 5 is one law rather than many law columns. Of course, you can agree with all these emphasis, although I do not doubt that the political powers may have a different view of how to approach these goals. But I wanted to discuss here the fourth point, which is spoken of as an interlocking period between a home and a nursing home. We now see news on the plight of those who run a nursing home and are not new. We've seen rural communities fight to support nursing homes where the communities have been involved for some reason in this business, sometimes to their wish but sometimes not, and I now have to admit that I will late understand it. But what is being said is more comprehensive. It is not that it is appropriate for everyone to go to a nursing home, but it is not that it is appropriate for them to live at home in service. A respectable president. I think we need to start looking at the overall situation with a number of resources, since individuals, of course, differ and their needs vary. We must find ways to meet the individual's needs. As a result, we need to view this service collectively, which, of course, raises these questions: Should rural society take over the affairs of the elderly, as was done in the case of the disabled of the day, or is it supposed to be on the shoulders of the State? This combination of social services with the local community is simply not a good way to serve this important age group.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u13	Mr. President. During the past few years, the head of the country's nursing homes has been like the shouter in the desert, in vain, trying to reach the ears of the government through difficult, unmistakably, the operating conditions of the nursing homes that are fired by a government service contract. But there was one final outcome, and it is the request of a nursing facility for a specific analysis of the household's cost. Last August, a health minister listened and organized a group. The group was to report on November 1; yet, she was not ready until a month ago. The report had been awaited, as both health minister and financial secretary had repeatedly said that the results of this report were the basis for increased financial support. And what does this report say? We do not know this because a health minister who uses a double agent in the working group was not satisfied with the results. Therefore, the report has been in a full month of a review at the Ministry of Health. This period, a whole month, suggests that changing the report will not be a disaster. It has probably been accomplished quite well, the facts have not been wronged, the real positions and the actual costs of nursing homes in caring for the State's service requirements have been reported. The conclusion may also have been that the State has to pay for its services. Mr. President. The people of nursing homes, the people who decades ago laid the foundation for the society in which we live today, deserve something better than to be used as a pawn in the government's fight against independent organizations. [[The president calls.]] Neither Covid nor the coming election justifys this process. They are simply not acceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u14	Mr. President. Let's imagine: I'm a child, and I live in the country. I have a speech disorder and I need speech training. I sometimes get speech training lessons from computers, but sometimes I have to wait and take a break because there are so few speech pathologists and many children waiting. I don't understand it because I know something like that. That my aunt is a speech pathologist who can help me, but she can't train me. She's still out of college, and she's a legitimate speech pathologist, but because she hasn't worked for two years, she can't help me. I don't get it, and my mom doesn't understand it either. Mr. President. No wonder the child does not understand! I don't understand, either. In November 2017, the SI set out a two - year work basis for a valid speech pathologist to get into a contract with the SI. The reason for this two - year rule is to increase quality requirements for the ministry. This two-year rule creates a long waiting list and is the average waiting period to be avoided by a speech pathologist 17◯36 months, according to a study performed by a newly graduated speech pathologist last spring. Mr. President. Why don't we just sort it out, take out the two-year work experience so a newly signed speech pathologist can operate independently in a living room? This has proved to be the loss of this two - year law to those who are in need of it now, not after 17◯36 months. If you have the will, you can change it. But the will does not seem to be readily available, and the client's waiting list does not seem to see how it can solve this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u15	V.E.G. President. A discussion of the epidemic and the Surgeon House has helped me to see how important it is, moderately guided, not to forget the main objectives of disease prevention; to protect people's lives and health from an entire nation. We also do not debate the importance of providing the economy, households and companies with systematic and specific counterweight measures to reduce the inevitable economic consequences of the epidemic. This has led to a great deal of success, and no doubt it is the reason why the struggle has been more successful. Patience becomes virtue under these circumstances, and there must be no question about reasoning that leads to a lack of faith. We need extra strength and endurance through the next weeks and months to endure. It'll test the solidarity. May we be realistic, trusting in the knowledge we have built up over the past year, enduring it, and enduring it. Today, however, a quick response over the last three weeks has been made to produce results that we can see in recovery and certainly at a shorter time than if nothing had been done. It's very valuable to get sports and hobbies, swimming and exercise going again and exercise and the competition of accomplished people, as well as youth and youth. It is a huge public health issue and should be a racer to keep such work open whenever possible, and circumstances offer. Continued solidarity and endurance will be based on a clear view of the primary objectives. The protection will continue to take place in this struggle with vaccinations. Alertness and continuation must be supported by a joint information transfer through continued action, the pre-defined reduction plan on the implementation of vaccinations, and it must be, a dignified president, continue to ensure economic support for homes and businesses.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u16	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Secretary of finance for being here with us today and having this discussion with me. I felt that it was appropriate to request and then take into account that my first special discussion at the Allied Parliament after I was elected here as an agent at the highest level. Secretary of finance, December 28, 2017. I would like to think about what has been accomplished about poverty in those days. How have governments responded during this period when, in December 2017, we were in a very poor situation? I would like to start by mentioning what has happened. It's been said how well we score in OECD, on average, it's very good here. That we have it better than most peoples and everything else. And thanks to that, I'm not going to belittle it. What the woman here has been primarily talking about and representing are individuals who are not able to make ends meet and who are actually living in poverty in Iceland today. We can't see only - even when we're talking about this disgusting global epidemic that has even caused world poverty. Not only are we looking forward to it but this poverty was burning and too much for Covid. But in Covid, we have seen waitings being greatly extended to charities where individuals are asking for food. We also know that there does not exist an infinite budget in a government fund to help all of us do everything for everyone. But my priorities are still possible, so we will always put the people in first place. It is more painful than tears to know that only in March did some 2,500 families take care of Iceland's Family Help. It's quite remarkable that we should at the same time, as I know to the highest. I'll expect a secretary of finance to say, I'm not going to answer for him, talking about a decrease in taxes, talking about increasing child reforms, talking about a campaign of 7,000 new jobs and so on. But not everyone can win. Some are just making money on the striped social insurance benefits, and there have also been times, at the highest level. A minister of finance, who will probably tell us again now, if I know him right - a man has learned a lot of things in an entire term in the Allied Council of Iceland - that there are so few who are on the striped social security benefits. Since there are so few people, I want to know, "Why don't we help them? " Why do we not put our arms around poor people and feel ashamed that we have built such a powerful poverty trap for thousands of people? They don't have a chance of making ends meet. It is within our power to help these individuals. We are now looking at increasing unemployment in Covid. In December 2019, we were already dealing with less than 5% unemployment. We've been through the fall of an airline, I know it. We went through phlegm failure, we're going through all kinds of things, but it has also been shown that the government fund was very strong, and in fact we did well that we could deal with this pandemic, and few nations have been able to boast of something as solid as we have built on it, as we have done. But will everyone enjoy it? Are we really putting our arms around the community, or is it the same old story, that it is more of a special security? Saving companies is not enough. It is not enough to say: We take hundreds of billions of dollars of dollars on ourselves, the government fund, to save companies because the whole community is built on them. But there are also people in the community who cannot work, and they must rely on us. That's why I want to have this discussion, and I hope that now that the end of this election season is not just some new promise for the next election, but maybe there's some small, tiny solution that we're going to take care of this group of society for which the people's party is a advocate here at the council. And I could use some.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u17	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank you very much for this discussion, thank you very much. A senator for providing for her during the council, who believes that the matter is important in these times as always. We can say that the standard of living for the Icelanders and their affairs are never too often discussed here at the council. What I've wanted to do in this discussion is to focus on measures that may matter. What can we do in particular? I have to say, just as it is, in the history of a man, I miss it. A senator who's been talking about it. paritaprevir Sæland Gaand, not to mention any more of the things that can matter. Yes, it is noted that we could improve social security benefits to those who have a minimum, but we build a social security system so that we are particularly reaching out to them by allowing a higher share of improvements, i.e. For the greatest compensation is to go unto them that have nothing. Then, depending on what a person has to do with other people, professional income, pension income money, or what it is, these famous impairments come into existence. However, in order to contribute something to this discussion, I would like to mention here a few things that we have been doing, and there are many things to do. Of course, there must be agreements about exactly which group we're talking about especially, whether we're talking about those in the worst position of those who could be considered poor, with too little between the hands, or whether we're looking over a larger area. Nevertheless, I would allow myself to point out that by changing income taxation of individuals during the past two years, their provisions have increased by more than 120,000 dollars. every year. Just the loss of income tax returns 120,000 bucks. to them you make less money each year because it counts, including the benefits, including unemployment. For example, we have also been increasing the limit of child repairs, resulting in an increase of up to 80,000 marriages in the child - welfare program. every year. The change in microenergy and rehabilitation in the early year resulted in an increase in income of 8,000 dollars. in a month for all the revenues beyond the 3.6% that all were given in the improvement system, so as to improve their social security to the most payloaded, the two increased by 19,700 dollars. in a month at the end of the year. I know these numbers aren't high when you look at special teams, but they all come together and they start to make a big difference, not just in the month, but on a yearly basis. These are steps that we can take to ensure their progress. I haven't been able to access any other means, such as housing, building and sharing loans in a housing market, special resources that especially look at the conditions of the housing market. Since 2016 we have set up 15.5 billion and an additional 7.2 billion this year and the next year. When we look at this and the activity of what we often call here in technical terms auto-motive, i.e. In this case our improved systems, if we look at the function of our improving systems, we'll see that if we go into the economy, just as we are right now, the systems are with people. We have been in the greatest economic activity in history. For example, we have spent hundreds of billions of dollars together for that purpose, hundreds of billions, and we have 300 billion angles this year, and the automatic equations are very strong. [[Up front.]] [[Top of it: not right.]] Some people here at the council Hall are irritated by this, but it's just a fact. Let us see what the outcome is. This has meant that we have seen more equations take place despite this crisis. This system protects the position of those who are mentioned among the hands, relatively far beyond others, which is extremely important, and we must agree on it. So I could count in addition to some specific instruments, such as that microenergy and rehabilitation donors received 70,000 bucks. individual payments last year in addition to holiday and December supplementation, etc. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] These are the specific measures we have been taking us in recent years. They produce results, and we see both the equation in society growing, like a whale. A senator brought up the matter, and the buy of the lowest income of a great year's payday. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u18	The President looks like the best. Ministers as well as ministers. Councilmen are to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u19	V.E.G. President. First, I want to thank the advocate for this discussion, as well as the highest. Minister. First, I would like to refer to the work agency's website, which says that handling applications for unemployment can take about six weeks. Today, more and more persons who are not paid on unemployment until several months after applying for them and who have no house to spend a month - to - date are even finished, unable to pay bills, and thus have gone into a poverty trap. Although the situation in Iceland is considered somewhat good in the case of poverty, a report published a few years ago showed that poverty and inequities of children in Iceland grew from collapse. Thus, many children have lived under unsatisfying circumstances, and the cost of housing is very high in proportion to those who have least income. Incomes, both on pay and on social benefits, are the main factors in children's poor health. Injustice is not only one cause of poverty but also a result. Children who grow up in poverty are more likely to live in poverty as adults and as poverty moves from generation to generation. I want to roll it up here at the highest. The secretary of finance whether we are seeing similar developments again will appear to us in the wake of the Covid epidemic, and I ask him how he would have decided to react if so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u20	Mr. President. There were some things we didn't know when the virus hit us. But there were things we knew. We knew, for example. that here had been a significant poverty. During the last few years, some 6,000 children suffered a lack of money. We knew that this crisis would affect people who lost their job and would be the worst for her. At last, we knew that in a standard crisis, in some cases there is an increase. Thus, the failure of the government to cope with this crisis is a very serious matter, but it is primarily a crisis of employment. The recent report by the World Bank shows black in white where we are in international comparison. Their magnitude is twice, triple, even four times that of us here. It's the highest word here. The secretary of the automatic balance once more and thinks we're on a boat, but we just don't stand out from other nations and here's a table that a minister can look at. The majority of those who lost their jobs now are young people, women, immigrants, people under average income - all of them added to a group of desperate, elderly, and poor people who were in the greatest trouble. V.E.G. A minister demands that we take to them what action to take. The government would have had to spend much more money directly on those who needed to stay in the chair and have the government direct the money to society through the banks. You see, they have made the most use of us who had our job and who are making good use of us, who are on a high salary. Secretary of finance. We have enjoyed it with higher prices and stock markets. But those who needed help have had to empty their savings, and they have borrowed money. [[The president calls.]] This is a disgrace to our present situation, and of course, it will eventually be restored.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u21	Mr. President. Poverty is unbearable, and we need to keep working against poverty - a ongoing task. The government has not been left empty in these matters, as we have seen here. It's important to step-over the tax system. It's best for the underpayers. It is important to have increased unemployment in the last three years by 80,000 dollars. It is important to have decreased the patient's costs during the term, and return rate has been reduced to 500 K. and free of charge for children, for the elderly, and for the poor. We have agreed to a share loan that will benefit the young and the low income, making it easier for them to get a roof over their heads. We have accepted an additional social support for the group of elderly people who are inarcessible with their social security systems. The campaign is now taking place. It is a very important way of creating jobs and reducing unemployment. One major work of society in the coming year is to create good jobs all over the country, working against the unemployment disaster and especially the long - term lack of work. These are some of the things I mention here that have benefited those with a low salary and the poor. Of course, it is, as I mentioned at the outset, a ongoing task, and we must not let our guard down at all. It is not common for people to be lacking in our wealthy society. This government has been on the watch and will continue to stay on the watch, and we must always try to do better and seize the most vulnerable groups that have the lowest income and the hard work of living, since poverty cannot be passed on in our time. We can always do better, and we will.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u22	President. I'm afraid to the highest. The secretary of finance is a bit stuck in old - fashioned and harmful ideologies in these topics, a ideology that supports the idea that poor people and those who rely on government support are lazy or kinsy, deserve their social situation, and they need complex systems with strict conditions to ensure that no one is betraying out a few extra jars. [[What is this nonsense?]] In fact, this spirit - minded minister appeared to us during the epidemic when a number of unemployed people reached historical levels, despite the fact that the unemployed had done nothing more to do than obey governments and stop working. There was no thought of the government or the Minister to increase the support of unemployed. There was no way to raise the irony of unemployment, for the minister of finance thought it was a failure, as he put it. Because unemployment would have to be kept low, so people would want to go back to the job market, a job market that still had no work to offer. It was only after the relentless criticism of the government's opposition, the labor movement, and the government's marketing organization, which ended at last, and increased unemployment rates all too late. President. I'd like to ask the highest. The financial minister of questions I consider to be a fundamental question in this discussion, and it is whether a financial minister thinks it is needed or above possible to eliminate poverty and ensure prosperity for everyone. Is poverty to him just an inevitable and normal part of the community?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u23	A respectable president. Jare opportunities, equations, and equality - we want everyone to have equal opportunities for secular work, for study, for life, regardless of race, sex, language, religion, nationality, sexual orientation, or residence. We want to continue to build up society on baseline equations. We want each one of us to have the same right to education, to develop, to make a fundamental living, regardless of origin, health, and economic background. The Covid virus has led to a high level of unemployment in this country, leading to more fighting back to the end. The challenge has been met by the government by diverse means to ensure further opportunities for education and employment. For example, for example, the task of education and cultural minister of education for all and the work of Ministers of Social Affairs and Children starts work. These actions are just to seize people who have suffered ill at Covid and who have given them a chance. It is just an opportunity that provides the basis for equal equality and equality within any community. But not everyone can take the chance. A respectable president. We need to see the fact that poverty is a real problem in this country, even though it is hidden. It should be our goal to eliminate all poverty in this country. This is done by equal opportunities, equations, and equality. This is a project that is being done systematically but better if it is to be done. As mentioned earlier, there are many measures today to cope with poverty, but all of us are expected to assist and give.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u24	Mr. President. The food crop is fixed at a rate that is much higher in terms of low income and their families than in others. This is where we live on an island, so we depend on the import of much of our necessities. Thus, the transport costs are an integral part of our food basket, but they are far from the only dominant factor in the fact that the cost of food is higher than anywhere else. In all our business dealings, we also rely on swinging coins. It reduces awareness and stability in the business world and promotes high interest in all our goods and services, greater prices on those who live in poverty or in need. Our loans also make our loan more expensive, both the consumption loans of those who have to look for such solutions in desperate distress and the mortgage. The latter loans build a barrier around the real estate market, which some never get over but still have to pay the cost, of course, because the cost comes directly to the rent price as well. In fact, there are unusually few people in history today, yet they are still more of the number of people in our neighboring countries. So it is and becomes even more expensive to live in Iceland than anywhere else and a dollar play a big part in it. Walking in the European Union and recording an euro would bring all of us improved standard of living. This is a long-term goal, but for a short time, solutions can be sought by attaching e.g. The crew of the crown by Euro, just like Dani has done. That would give us all improved standard of living, but it would have a relatively positive effect on the most efficient people in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u25	A respectable president. Here we will discuss the matter of poverty. Indeed, poverty, poverty, poverty, poverty, poverty, poverty, lack of money, money, money shortages, poverty, poverty, poverty, poverty, poverty, poverty, poorness, poor health, poverty, misery, vesture, nothing at all, lack of resources, scavenging, and failure. Poor or desperate is the economic condition of those who suffer want, those who lack food, housing, or other needs, health care, clothing, and even education. What does this mean in English? That means we're putting a large group, even 10% of the people, into this scale and 5% of them even in desperate numbers. And we have children in this situation, thousands of children, even between 6,000 and 10,000 children in the miserable situation of living in poverty. It's a disgrace to us. I say, Guð helps us, it wouldn't be better if we went to the EU because it's because I know by myself that it would be even more terrifying. We don't have to go up there to get equalized, we just need to divide the wealth right. Let wealth go primarily to those who need it. We've turned it around so that 1% of the people feed everything and they don't know their money talking while children starve. It's a disgrace to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u26	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæland Howil for this discussion and the highest. Secretary of the budget for the answers. Poverty is the evils of every nation, and we want to do everything we can to prevent poverty traps in our community. It is and will be the task of the senators of all ages to fight that calamity. So I have to use this opportunity to thank the partners, Iceland's Family Help, Mother Control Committee and the Church's Help Committee, as well as a number of other people who have been concerned about supporting poor people. This group of people has performed miracles, and we are to give full support to the brilliant women who are directing that vital work. There have been a number of reasons for the pandemic of Covid-19 to ensure survival, as shown in the case of financial ministers. Last year, operations were launched to provide support and services to the most vulnerable groups in society. Microenergy and rehabilitation pensioners received a total of 70,000 bucks. individual payments in addition to holiday and December improvements. Making money under certain boundaries increases greatly in the quality of the house - to - house services and child - making work. 720 million. K. Protected to support the financial support of the rural communities, 250 million. K. protect specific support for the Southnes, which has been most effective in the Covid crisis, and has been determined by unemployment. There I have offered myself some suggestions on employment that I considered in the Senate earlier today. The only thing that can improve the job is jobs, more jobs. A respectable president. I hear people believe that the crown virus has increased the income gap in people's homes. That is when thousands of people land on unemployment benefits and stocks or other resources, the gap increases. When a large proportion of people lose their jobs and receive benefits, insurmountation increases for a while. By returning jobs, the gap will be even again. A respectable president. We are to avoid poverty by all means. This is to ensure that the minimum pay for older people and other reformers will never be lower than the minimum labour paid in a general labour market.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u27	V.E.G. President. I would like to use this second opportunity to speak in a somewhat positive way regarding continued prospects, even though my questions remain to the highest degree. Minister I hope he remembers to answer. I ran into a fistula from 2018 in preparation for this discussion, after Sigurður Ma Már Jónsson, where he's doing pretty well. It says, by permission of the president: There is no greater equality in the Member States than in Iceland, based on the Gii index, which is not a new truth. The International Comparison of Giinis Communicators on Habitat's Web shows whites that income has been remembered in Iceland among the Europeans in 2016. That's good news. Evolution is in the right direction, but it is vital that we bear in mind that our prospects may have changed. Hopefully, we can have a measure of optimism that we will be able to achieve the first world goal of the United Nations, which is going to eliminate poverty by the year 2030. However, it is more important to keep in mind that further measures should be taken in the absence of relapse. I remind myself of what I said earlier when I quoted a childhood report: Children who grow up in poverty are more likely to remain in poverty as adults, and poverty is moving from generation to generation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u28	Mr. President. In the case of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, it was decided to set up the Strategist Department, which has been the grieving part in the studies of poverty in Iceland and how to eradicate it. The latest report published for the Department of Health for Living and Children's Poverty reports that while the child's standard of living is well looked at in Iceland, compared to most other European countries, Iceland has nearly four out of ten children under low income limits and more than, children of single parents and the majority of single parents are in the lower half of the income distribution. In May 2020, the long - populous number of people in the city of Reykjavík were single mothers, young single mothers with children. Another group of parents who are most likely to live in financial distress is incompetent. Mr. President. It is most urgent to correct the ideals of these groups as soon as possible. Action, not words. It also needs to improve the quality of a child with single parents, improving the financial saving of disability, which is the most likely group to live in economic hardship, and improving the status of the facility and the cost of housing that greatly affects the child's standard of living and affects the poverty of children and single parents. Young people who have little money in their homes now receive little or no support through the growth system. Then there's the crown virus, Mr. President. The last December called for suggestions on the welfare department, where much anxiety was expressed by those who were in the court's arms prior to the pandemic and who suggested some suggestions. And where are they, Mr. President? Where is the government's policy and action plan for poor, wealthy children's families? Reykjavíkurburg already has such a job. Where is a review of local social services laws? It is, in fact, there. suggest the definition of base value for implementation. How has it been possible to shorten people's waiting period after recovery of unemployment, rehabilitation, and disability? [[The president calls.]] More important, how has it been successful to increase the maximum pay of child - rearing benefits that are made available to single parents and to those who earn most money? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's just a few things. Meanwhile, the highest. Secretary of finance here, making his way off 10,000 bucks. increase in the monthly to the most efficient group in the form of changes in income taxation or automatic fluctuation equations, which is just nothing to benefit from in international comparison, nothing. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u29	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen are to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u30	President. We judge people with poverty. It is distressing to those who land it, to women and men, to young and old, to children, primarily to children who are not to live in poverty. To be trapped in a poverty trap and to have no way out of it is a vicious circle that must be broken. It's where society's gonna be coming in. You see, poor people are affected not only by those in it but also by society. What is the harm to society from every human being who is unable to make full use of his abilities because of poverty? Poverty is a waste of human resources, so I use language that even a liberal person understands. All of us have a responsibility to fight poverty. With the support of the government, we do so. The present government has taken some good measures in this regard, but as a community, we must continue and do better, work harder, change more, support more. Therein comes the government, as well as the rural communities, with their support, which, unfortunately, has slightly increased in recent years. You see, the community's security network is woven both by state and by rural society. We need to use the tax system better. We need to reevaluate the microbehavior system and a number of other things, increase the pay. Above all, it is our job to make sure that in a rich country such as Iceland, in our prosperous society, there is no shortage. You see, no one has to.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u31	President. All of us know how poverty affects people. The lives of the poor are marked by a great deal of stress, distress, and humiliation that undermines their mental and physical health. A poor parent can also have a long - term effect on children, the development of children in the early years that lays the basis for their health and development for the future, so it is extremely important that we give children the best possible start in life. We also know that thousands of children in Iceland are made to live in poverty. It is estimated that 10% of Icelandic children live in homes where income is under low income limits. One out of every ten children in our prosperous society is denied the living conditions and opportunities that other children offer just because of their parents'financial situation. That's what we all know. As economist Charles Kenny said, there is a major reason why poor people are poor because they don't have enough money. Simple. Simply giving poor people more money is the best way to reduce this problem. What a cost it is for individuals to be released from the cycle of poverty, and how costly it is for society to allow poverty to continue in the future! This is where we kept it. A member of the Independence Party spoke earlier and thanked various relief organizations for being there to seize people in need. I agree with that. But my message here is that we shouldn't need this organization, not this way. We are simply to ensure the economic security of people with increased direct contributions, by significantly reducing the decline and conditions in the improvement system, and by stopping calling this improvement. Let's stop calling this improvement. It's an inheritance. It is our self - esteem in our community's common prosperity. This is our right. Not only is it humane and reasonable but it is our right to ensure economic security.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u32	A respectable president. As I said in my first talk, opportunities provide a basis for equal equality for the people who can catch them. You see, not everyone can take employment and study opportunities, e.g. for medical reasons. There are mainly poor people who do not have health to work and older citizens in the lowest tenths that are out of reach. People who cannot take the opportunity are those whom we need to take. Some 40,000 people over 67 years of age have the right to make a pension from a insurance agency, and when this group is divided into tenths from income, the situation of these people is dramatic. Each tithe contains some 3,500 people. The average wage in the first tenth, or lowest, of the group is 245,000. And to the next tenth and above, there are 295,000 jars. The first worldwide goal of the United Nations is: No poverty. A respectable president. Let's do it better. With permission of the president, I'm here to witness in a brief chapter from the first United Nations goal: The latest observations show that in Iceland the greatest wealth and minimum poverty in Europe still prevails, but despite the positive results, a certain group of people still have a material shortage and poverty. One of the main objectives of the world's end is not to leave anyone behind, so it is important to be guided by the induction of our first objective to eliminate poverty in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u33	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæland Howland for starting this discussion. Now that unemployment is growing substantially, and we look at historically high numbers in that relationship, we need to be aware that it has problems that can become long - lasting. People find themselves in ignorance, and they can't even provide their children with the basics. Unemployed employment will be expensive to these individuals as well as to the community and may even result in disability that can affect one's health, physical or mental. That is exactly the worst, people who now live under reduced incomes and suffer poverty, the least they can do is seek help in this respect simply because of expenses. Studies show that single parents and their children and single - parented, childless people are at greater risk than others are exposed to very poor health. The factors that are most significant, or they predict whether people are very poor, are housing status and health. Thus, I think all policy measures need to be taken into account by these factors, specifically aimed at those with the greatest lack. There I feel that governments need urgent, to look to those most in need. Regarding the poverty of children, it can be said that their world is their home and school. All support for these two factors helps to improve the situation of children; school meals, indirect costs at school, leisure activities, etc. The solution, then, must be made clear and just in the way of a child's low income family. I mentioned at the beginning of my medical life in our time and wanted a mental - health service to be mentioned in that regard. Few measures I think are more likely to have an effect on reducing the rate of disability due to mental illness than the availability of health services, including psychology services. That's why I now call for the government to take a crisis of income and the financial resources of health insurance to negotiate with independent psychologists. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u34	A respectable president. First, I want to thank everyone wholeheartedly for having participated in this discussion, which is certainly not too often. At the beginning, the highest line was made. So the secretary of finance to me what advice I could see in this situation. For the first thing, I'll relieve him for two months and I'd certainly jump this system a little bit. The people say, "The people first, then all the rest." We can see that it will be an even greater inexorability this time on Covid. Not only that, but we know about blundering exactly in social security patients up to 37% since an economic collapse that has not been corrected and can be done better if needed to correct it, in the range of 40,000,400,000. per month, which would completely alter the status of these individuals. In return, I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance, as I've kept saying here, why in the world, we don't have a personal discount for high-priority employees, like mine and the highest. Secretary of finance, bringing this money down to those who are in trouble in society and have alimony of 220,000,200,000. in money after they've been torn off their taxes? It is not enough to speak of 300,000 k. waste will be taken off at any time. It's not enough to say, "Here's $320,000." but when you get them, you'll only get 240,000 and then 200,000 in your rent, and then you'll go to the relief agencies and ask for food. We're watching our little children miss having the gift of being genius because Dad and Mom can't afford to follow it and give them a chance in life. It's our responsibility, a respectable president, and the highest. Secretary of finance to improve that situation. And one thing is certain: If someone has it worse somewhere else, it will not improve the situation of those who are poor and trapped in a poverty trap on our land today. [[The president calls.]] I say, "Let them be as good as they try to persuade poor people to believe, when they don't have salt in their porridge, that they are not poor." [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u35	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for your time today, but I'd like to get right to the point. We're talking about serious stuff here, and we've also got to talk seriously about the evidence and the facts that we have in our hands about what's really going on in Iceland today. Total poverty in Iceland is low in international comparison. We have been successful in improving the position of the group we are especially talking about. In recent years, the low - income groups in Iceland have seen compensations, and there is no question about it. We have the smallest inequities in Europe. We also have the lowest low-cost ratio, lowest. These are all the facts that give convincing evidence that we in Iceland, the Allied, the Icelandic Government, have succeeded well, better than anyone else, to do the most for those who need it. I'd like to get into the ideologies that meet me here at the Senate Hall. Piranians talk about not understanding the status of these people, despite all the results we've been doing, even though we have tax reductions and subsidies, and funding of such reinforcements, to show that we can improve the position of these groups. I was just waiting for a talk from Pirata's spokesman in their discussion about the fact that, of course, it was their vision of the future, as we know it, that it is here that 40,450,000 people are walking around in the civilian business and not doing anything and that they are just well off on it. The restoration actually comes with just one thing on the table, and it's not surprising, it's the European Union. The European Union would solve this problem. However, in the European Union, consumption fell much more than in Iceland, consumption levels in Iceland, homes status, improved last year. The status of the households improved, the provision of the households improved over the past year, and the buypower of provision has never been higher than at the beginning of this year. This was not the case in the European Union, which is irrefutable proof that it was not as successful as in dealing with the problem. If you want to go out on the AGS report, I have a few things to say about her. It does not provide the correct picture of the situation in Iceland, and it leaves the number of actions to be on if you're going to make someone like this international comparison. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u36	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct a change to the U.S. election law. First, it is suggested that references be made to elections to the Council electronically as well as to references for the distribution of an index. In addition, it is possible to write electronically under the announcement of political parties to the highest government on offer and that a person who intends to volunteer could write electronically under his declaration of offer. Second, the bill suggests that the condition that may be controlled by the Covid-19 epidemic at election time in the fall so that those who may be infected or in isolation at the elected date will be allowed to vote. Third, essential correction of a reference to the name of a rural society in the Northeastern district is laid down because of the unity of fellow rural communities there. The source of the bill can be attributed to the fact that the last summer's election was the project that had been conducted for years in the collection of contributions, i.e. collecting documents' signatures, not acceptable, including In view of the situation in society due to the Covid-19 epidemic. So, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and Iceland's National Constitution, we were checking to see if it could be possible to collect people electronically. The conclusion was that the project was effective during the short period of time. The U.S. president's legislation was modified and authorized until electronic hearings were collected. The performance was successful, with 87.5% of references being electronic. In view of the uncertainty that still exists as a result of the Covid-19 epidemic and how pleasant it was to collect electronic references during the last summer's election, it is appropriate to offer such an arrangement for the coming election to the General Assembly, both as a result of the collection of contributions made by a list as well as by the distribution of an index. It is also suggested that electronic publications be prepared to be printed under the announcement of the political parties to the pre-election and that if you intend to sit on a list, you can write electronically under your declaration of offer. The question of a more complex project is now to end with many candidates as well as with the bill for a much greater electronic service than was granted in the election. The change also harmonizes with the digital evolution that takes place in many parts of the community. The project has been developed and cooperated with the Workshop on Iceland's digital and National Book of Iceland. This transition includes the provision of electronic references and the distribution of listbooks, as well as the possibility that signature may be electronic in the case the candidate declares his will to take place on the list of oers as well as when the proposal is announced to the head of government. Then the objective of the bill is also to react to conditions that may be due to Covid-19 when elections take place in the fall of a future so that those who may be infected or isolated during the election day will be able to vote. That situation arose in the morning of the election's election last summer that the number of voters on a vote day had come under government-sponsored conditions. From the anxiety, these voters were not allowed to attend a ballot meeting on the election day or to vote outside a traditional meeting. After consultation with the Ministry of Justice with the government, the county's office in the capital area, and the CDC was decided to make them, as if required by the measures of government authorities, possible votes outside an elected meeting with the businessman in the capital area. Was talking about elections outside an election meeting that took place outside the county's elected location in the capital area and had voters assistant managers to vote. Thus, it was protected from the votes of non-union elections as well as the conditions of disease control for those who were under the control of the government's decision. The change is now suggested to the county bodies, each in their own jurisdiction, in consultation with the SECs, order a vote outside an election meeting in a special place and in a special way for those who are unable to vote for a vote on a vote on a vote day or to vote outside an election meeting in a generalised sub-election site because they are in an environment or isolation. On one hand, it is possible for a person who may be infected on a holiday for a vote outside a special meeting in a special location, either on a scheduled day or before a vote, but it is the case with a voter who cannot attend an election on a scheduled day because he is in solitary confinement or contagion and is unable to establish a special out-of-count meeting may request a vote at his place of residence. It is noted that in cases where manager or other confidants must go to the location of the voters, they must be careful that they have knowledge and are in charge of equipment that protects the environment and the safety of the person. A dresser who is under siege or insulation due to Covid-19 is not considered to be able to sign the terms provided or sign the package leaflet, and therefore the manager should provide assistance without anyone else seeing. It is a bill designed to promote a more advanced and safer electronic service with candidates for the Allegorium, the political parties, the general administrations, and those willing to recommend both the invitations to the Council and the distribution of an index. It also enables the electronic social contact log for the office of the head management board in the management list of members that are faster and more efficient than on the bill to respond to the state that may be in charge of Covid-19 when elections occur in the autumn of the coming year so that those who may be in an environment of infection or insulation at the elected date will be allowed to vote. Further implementation is expected, both in the electronic service and in the regulations of those in the environment, and in the isolation outside the approved meeting, in the Regulation. Finally, the bill calls for the necessary correction on a reference to the name of the rural community in the Northeast standard because of a uniting community. Agricultural communities have now been united in the plains of the River Valley Council and are suggested that the name of these rural communities be reassigned to the law of rural areas in the northeastern district and replaced by the name of the new council, the Mulla Council. As mentioned earlier, the bill was employed by the Ministry but consulted with the National Publications Index of Iceland, the U.S. Commission, the Espionage Office on Digital Iceland, the Directorateates of the Presidency, the Attorney General, and the Ministry of Health. It's suggested that the bill take effect immediately. A respectable president. I have now explained the key points of the bill and suggested that the case be followed by this discussion. The management and monitoring committee and the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u37	V.E.G. President. I recommend here for billing for changes in marriage law. The bill suggests changes in terms of parole due to minimum age in order to establish marriage, survey wedding conditions, divorce legal history, as well as the proposal to move jobs from the Ministry to the county. First, the bill suggests that the removal will be a release from the marriage of a person under 18 years of age. Is the purpose of harmonizing marriage law with international recommendations and attitudes regarding minimum age to marry. According to current law, two individuals may marry when they are 18 years old. However, the Ministry can grant younger ones permission to marry, as there is the position of parents to the marriage institution. Then the bill suggests that a principle of acceptance will be established in a foreign - language marriage. It is suggested that the law suggests that we should marry individuals under 18 years of age who are serving in a foreign country only if we are under strict restrictions. Is that valid, regardless of whether the couple are still under 18 when they arrive in the country and want to be accepted? Exception must be made when this is particularly possible, and the unequivocal interests of a person under 18 years of age require it. However, the person should have been 16 years of age at the time of marriage, and the marriage rate should be recognized in the country where the wedding was held. In view of the rights, there is the need to accept marriage in exceptional circumstances. Second, whether a husband or a wife has a legal home here or not, the bill suggests that a survey of wedding conditions will only pass by the politicians. It is then suggested that the Ministry, with a Regulation, will be able to commit one county office to a written project, while the objective of the changes is to coordinate and improve the quality of the inspection of wedding conditions. Encouraging one county administration will include: can agree with the requirements that the Commission makes for the information required by foreign citizens who intend to marry in this country. At the same time, it is assumed that there will be an emphasis on simplifying the procedure with electronic solutions at the time of the future vision of the county's office. It should be noted that consecrations to priests, directors of religious and principles, and their agents will remain unchanged under the law. Third, there are adjustments to the marital law in the history of the Icelandic government and the courts to give legal separation to the country in certain cases if neither party lives in this country or is not Icelandic citizens. The union between members of the same sex is not recognized in all states, and those who marry in this country do not have the right or requirement to accept their marriage in other countries, e.g. A country where one or both owns citizen's rights or owns a permanent home. Parts of the same sex who get married in this country and who don't get their marriage approved in their own country can't request legal divorce in this country unless they live here or are Icelandic citizens. In order to respond to the criticism that has established relevant legislation on this issue and to bring into harmony with the rules that apply to the other countries, there are proposed to change the marital law that leads to legalization so that a request for divorce can be made on land if it is found that a policymaker cannot appeal to divorce in a country he has or she owns. The changes apply equally to divorce cases in court and government meeting other conditions of the law. Fourth, there are some changes in carrying projects from the Ministry to the county, which are believed to be more compatible with the role of the government than with the Ministry. First, there is a revelation and approval by a lawyer that an illegal individual can establish a marriage that would then be replaced by an attorney in charge of the government. Then there is an exception from the wedding conditions on the position of the divorce between the couple and the previous spouses whom a businessman would be permitted to replace the Ministry. Next, there is the Ministry's permission to give the exception from two best men who guarantee that there is no law code on the subject of marriage and that one best man is signing a certificate. So it would be up to a businessman to give an exception according to the incident. The decision of the county will be open to the Ministry. Finally, the bill assumes that a permanent cost to the county is due to the implementation of projects to those who are involved in the inspection of the wedding conditions can be studied at least 18 million. K. every year. In order to finance a planned permanent cost to the county, the bill proposes a payment for an exploratory certificate. It is assumed that the price for proof would have to be about 4,500 dollars. to keep the costs to the point. For that reason, the law of the State Fund must be changed, No. 88/1991. Changes in that law are expected to be established by financial and economic ministers. V.E.G. President. I have now explained the key elements of the bill and suggested that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to why. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u38	President. First, I'd like to express the satisfaction that this bill is done. I count to the highest. Minister be the third Minister of Justice in a row with whom I have a word for these matters. The fact that 18 leaves of age were granted in the last two decades or so was the very first public response of the then president. Minister of Justice for the inquiry of the Council of 148th. Because I saw that I had not returned many comments to the bill in my consultations, I can inform the minister of the joyful news that the bill of the same material that I proposed earlier in the year has ended the narratives. There are only six or seven reviews from various human rights organizations that all highly recommend that the restricted authority be removed from the law. So it's a long time and a big deal. The bill's report speaks of responding to international recommendations. These recommendations date from 2005. The European Commission's recommendations date from 2005, which is 16 years ago. So I would like to ask the minister: " How is it that it is first now, in 2021, the year of the Ministry? Second, I'd like to ask, Mr. President, what kind of work was being done within the Ministry to evaluate the adage request? A report is presented, as it was shown in the reply of the then president of the United States. Minister to my inquiry, that it had been 16 years as the lowest of the age available for this purpose. But what else was considered? Did a study of not being under compulsion have to be conducted? Was the family background viewed, or was it just above the head of which study government was fulfilling on these terms?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u39	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's concern and appreciation for his struggle and the fact that he says so. I support his bill, of course. There are other factors - and the bill has been in preparation for a longer period of time - such as comments that have specifically received to my ears about divorce, where marriage is not accepted because it contains individuals of the same sex who have married here but who have not been accepted from their marriage elsewhere and therefore have not been able to obtain legal divorce. More changes have been made to bring in here. I think it's time, like, really good time. A senator says that the bill shows up, and there has been tips in that direction. Of course, there may not be many such ones if we consider how long they have been granted. And all of these have been in individuals older than 16 years of age, and only two to less than 17 years of age. Of course, it is also true that there have been very few leaveovers, provided for those under 17 years of age, by the Ministry. I may not fully understand what has taken so long, but the case has been in preparation for some time at the Ministry, i.e. that this bill will consider all the points that I discussed in my talk. The first northern kingdom made me think of changes to these regulations in 2014. Of course, they're looking at the changes all the time; where we can do better to ensure the rights and protections that I think we're doing by taking these steps and quitting with the access rights and that's, like now. A senator came on, in complete agreement with the reviews that have been made. But I might have to go over the other things later.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u40	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer, but just as I hope we can hear from it an answer to the part of my answer that turns to the Ministry's work and how the Ministry made sure that this parole was not abused in any of the 18 cases that were granted. I had a conversation with a group of college students from the University of Reykjavík who had been handed over from the Ministry magazine, which appeared here with the bill. However, they had asked for additional help and had been delivered to include the age of the older couple, the age of the married couple. I must say, Mr. President, I was a little shocked by the fact that twice a 17-year-old girls were applying for a license to marry 31-year-old men. There were 26 and 27 - year - old men, receiving an ensign to marry 17 - year - old girls over and over again. This age difference must put a warning light into operation by some reasonable, ambitious ruler who wants to investigate matters carefully. Therefore, I reiterate what I said earlier: What procedure was performed within the Ministry? What study of the real will of individuals who were applying for such an exception was conducted, individuals who are protected by the United Nations Children's Covenant, which makes the study so much more important to them? Does a minister trust to claim that the extraterrestrial system was not abused?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u41	A respectable president. To shed light on such a situation only. A member of the body mentions these leaveovers, which have not been granted from 2016, nor has there ever been a request for an individual under 16 years of age. There's always been a history of unequivocal consent from parents as well as the age and reason of the request. I'm not going to claim any replacements that have been granted since 1997 when I was a few years old myself. I guess with this we're changing things that we all want to see changes in. I think with the bill, we're supporting this, no extras have been given since 2016 and will not be provided anymore after the bill is approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u42	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister for the presentation of this bill and its contributions. There are many good things in it and important. I'd like to ask a few questions about the government's surveillance of wedding parties at religious and principles, how to monitor weddings and possible weddings that do not come to the registration of the National Institutes, and how the government monitors the weddings in these religious and principles.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u43	A respectable president. We don't know about weddings that don't come for registration, but by ensuring that a single-handed survey of the wedding terms is in one place and has a continuous registration and monitoring of them, that conditions are met in a clear way, at one hand with the politicians, we can guarantee this. Certificates of marriage go to the National Congress of Iceland, and they will be responsible for their proof. But a survey of wedding terms will then be at one hand with one county office that will handle this nationally, hopefully improving the procedure that may have been just different between the religious organizations that bring people together here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u44	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the answer. I ask if there is a reason why the government calls for information from religious organizations and principles on marriages that have been performed in a house without any record of weddings at Hague City, to see if there are a number of marriages that are not recorded in the Icelandic system, whether it could be that there could be some weddings here that would not be able to pass through a future criminal's eye on leave or on conditions needed to qualify for marriage to be registered in the central government at Iceland. Is it possible that some study of weddings that have taken place in the past decade or two within religious groups or in research mates might be conducted?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u45	A respectable president. I don't know what happened. A senator is referring specifically, but that is not a domestic thing, he has not come into effect. It hasn't come true if it wasn't registered by the religion or the philosophy of life. It has not been since the source of this warrant has been passed by a philosophy, but it has been quite clear that if the religious or biological society has not registered the marriage he has not become valid and therefore can not be called marriage, it is not permitted. But if there is a point we need to consider, we are, of course, ready to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u46	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct a change in public penalties in order to respond to changing social attitudes toward the fractions it deals with, i.e. child abuse, hatred speech, discrimination. In preparation for the bill, there are some factors. more than the international commitments of Iceland, particularly the International Convention on Deletion of All Racism and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Distinguished People, have been reviewed in other countries than by the international commitments of Iceland. With 1 st. The bill is presented in two forms. First, it is suggested at 1st. 70 C. a general penalties are added to the new figure that makes it necessary to take into account penalties to determine whether a violation is due to ethnic or national origin, racial background, race, religion, disability, sexual characteristics, sexual orientation, gender, or other similar factors. Part of these changes are attributable to the United Nations Committee on Racial rights violations, which include: has directed them to the Icelandic government of up to 70 C.E. a penal law will be changed so that it can lead to severe swallowing in the event of a broken race. These recommendations fail with 1 st. The bill. In contrast, when preparing the bill, it was not considered proper to limit such a change to race. Rather, it was considered proper to add to all the factors listed in Article 233. a The law on hate speech, which would be the motivation for a wrongdoer who is rooted in prejudice or hatred speech in general, should be viewed as a penalty decision. This adjustment is linked to Article 5. The bill is deemed worthy below. With 1 st. The bill is also suggested at 70th. a new sentence is added to indicate that it should usually be taken into account if a violation was committed in the presence of a child less than 15 years of age. In view of the psychological and emotional consequences that it can have for such young ones to witness infringement. With 2 st. The bill is submitted to a 1st-mg change. 108. g. but, according to this, whoever is employed or employed, has refused to give you a product or service to others on the basis of nationality, color, race, religion, sexual orientation, or sexual awareness will be judged or imprisoned up to six months. This arrangement is suggested to provide all the same groups listed in Article 233. a about hate speech protection from discrimination on delivery of product or services to the same extent as others. With a factor of 3. The bill is presented with significant changes in child abuse regulations 210. g. a general penal law, but the directives include about sexually explicit footage. First, the distribution is suggested to be added to the list of procedures listed in 1 mg. the law. Although there is already a penalty for obtaining, or other material, it would be wise to make plain that its distribution is also punishable. Second, a definition of child abuse is the law of child abuse. The list of different types of material in the text of the provision is not omitable. The imaging is only referred to, however, in what form it is. Similarly, the word "vile " is suggested to be removed, and the term" sexual behavior " includes the use of that term in the context of a fraction against children is widely out of date. Third, a violation of the law directed against children is proposed to protect a maximum of six - year prison punishment for two years now. In evaluating gross acts, particular attention should be given to the extent of a crime, whether a child's life has been compromised, whether a child has been subjected to gross violence, whether a child has suffered physical or physical damage, or if a crime is committed in a systematic or organized way. Fourth, it's suggested at 210. a add-on to a new set of requirements for 1 and 2 mg. does not apply to personal relations of young people when certain conditions are met. This does not apply to the person who created, viewed, or possesss material that shows a 15, 16, or 17 - year - old if the parent has agreed and both sides are at the same age as the stage of development. At the same time, it is suggested that both 1 and 2. nor does it apply to a 15, 16 or 17 - year - old carrying child. This means that a child in the above age range is without crime to create an image that falls below 1 mg. and send it to another person. Similarly, if the recipient is in the same age and stage of development, he or she is in line to protect and view such material with the approval of the figure. Here is where it is to pause briefly at the end of a complicated subject, and it is not easy to unite and protect the interests that are important to make sure that others will not be left out. If this adjustment is adopted, it will be guaranteed that if a 50 - year - old convinces a 16 - year - old child to send sexually explicit images to the child, the recipient is not allowed to examine or store the images. This is an enormous amount of interests. On the other hand, when a 17 - year - old person sends such photos to a 25 - year - old, he or she may not be allowed to store or look at the photos without culminating responsibility, it is concluded that they are not at the same age as the stage of maturity. In some cases, this may seem to be an unfair conclusion. These views were all taken to consider in preparing the bill. The conclusion was that it was far more important to keep track of the fractures mentioned in the previous example. On the other hand, it is proper to draw special attention to this point, and hopefully a careful consideration will be taken at that time. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. Finally and fifth, an adjustment to the 210th stratosphere is proposed. a. so that 2nd sentence 1st. current legislation must become a new 4 mg. It discusses adults who are sexually depicted as a child, or if they imitate a child in such material, even though it is not real. Logically, there are fragments that are directly directed against children and, on the other hand, in which adults are shown in the role of children or in material that is not real. This is discussed in separate paragraphs. The maximum penalty for such violations is further assumed to be two years incarcerated. With a section four. The bill is suggested to include the general penalties being added to the 210rd s.k. c on the one-body involved in the two child abuse laws, i.e. 210. g. a 210. g. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. This involves becoming a man judged to be guilty of a crime against either 210. gr. a or 210. g. b The guilty of a new offense against either of the laws has the sentence for the previous broken the effect of further punishment for the second. Then punishment may be added up to half of it, i.e. 50% to the maximum. The application warrant thus contains a penalty case. With a 5. Finally, the bill is suggested to replace the word "ethnicity " in the abusive speech of 233. gr. a general penalties come: ethnic background or national origin. The change is in harmony with the United Nations Committee on Racial rights violations, but the committee has considered that the existing law does not take place in English, which is named, by permission of the president, is ◯ethnic origiin, and that point is valid. Of course, the term "ethonic " or" ethnic " is not defined in the International Convention on Racial Deletion. Yet, it would certainly be far more extensive than the concept of nationality. Thus, national background could refer to a group of people sharing a common cultural heritage, background, or language for example. It also suggests that those who are disabled will be protected from hatred speech as 233rd c. If checked, a command will be sent. As I mentioned earlier, such a change was not deemed to be necessary for a United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people, but it is, on the other hand, highly in his spirit. So it is proper and timely to suggest such a change. It is also suggested that gender symptoms be added to the list of 233.g. a general penal law, and by means of it, people with non-typical gender will be protected in the same way as other important groups. Consistent with the definition of sexual autonomy, gender characteristics refer to sex-related biological factors, such as sex chromosomes, hormone function, gonadal glands, and genital organs. V.E.G. President. I have considered key elements of the bill in order to respond to changing social attitudes, both to hatred speech, to various forms of discrimination, child abuse, and the like. The legal development of other Northern countries and various international commitments in Iceland has been considered. Other aspects of the work are referred to the bill's work as well as to comments on individual regulations. I suggest that the bill be following this discussion. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u47	A respectable president. Here is the treatment of the prime Minister of Justice on several different matters, and I'd like to allow myself to tell related details regarding the changes in general penalties. I'm going to be content today to discuss the change in child abuse regulations. I'd like to say, in terms of my support of these changes, that I will contribute to their ability to become a law of the first. This is because while developing technology, child abuse has become much easier and is spreading. The types of fractures that are coming up and we have, for example, the kind of fractions that are coming up. Recently seen in the media regarding the large and large issues of the police and the high court in the North countries show that the situation is more extensive, organized, and more gross. The production and distribution of pedophiles are, in some cases, directly part of organized crime; it is developed in a large financial capacity where sexual abuse against children is organized. The situation requires that the law of penalties that we live in today be updated so that it can achieve its purpose and goals and be able to embrace this new reality, I would like to say. When there's a sentence against this law, 210th. A, is it also noted that in the cases considered large up to now, the defendants have had tens of thousands of photographs or videos in their possession, some of the very young children and material that manifests a gross sexual offense? The reality is that a penalty that lasts for a large fraction of two years does not reflect the seriousness of the offenses. The penalty this is to be suggested, up to a maximum of six years in prison, reaches a greater degree over large issues, which are sadly large, as we see in many areas, larger today than they were some year ago, larger in the sense that men involved in this material have a high volume, more than before, because of the availability of the material and because of the easyness of exposure to it. I'm going to protect the House of Congress to discuss what you can see in pictures like that. But I'm just gonna say that I know it from a previous job. As a result of this change, we receive a line of punishment that is similar to the one in the North countries today. In this respect, I have personally examined the trend in the North countries and feel positive and important and, in fact, necessary that our legislation is in harmony with the legislation of other countries. It simply has a practitioner's translation when police work cross-borderly because people interact on the Internet or through specific communication media. I just wanted to talk about the evolution and reality of this crime. I mention, as an example, a special chat area on the Internet, which, unfortunately, facilitates communication in this regard and the content. In such areas, not only have children's abuses been shared but also they have been able to plan not to violate a child in a certain way to watch it when the child is violated or then to own it. Of course, such material can result in a wide variety of growths. Discriminately against a child in this situation is the use of sexual violence and the fact that potentially metabolic material is available to other offenders on the Internet. And in the past, children are in a more delicate position in certain areas that are most at risk of such fractures, children in certain countries, and in areas where industry is growing. I give the general use of smartphones as one point. Those who sexually violate a child or children will find it easier to take photographs or videos of fragments at the same time. This is also true when sexual abuse is committed by close family members in the home of a child. Left behind is material that has been placed either in man's possession or in the family. Then, in reality, individuals of sexual abuse can be in a position to have their own child abuse material developed and then be able to share it with others and spread it online. Regarding the specific details of this bill, which can be mentioned and translated, this is here suggested to add the word ◯ suspension to the list of procedures. Of course, the present wording of the law indicates that obtaining, or other, this material is punishable. But by adding a word, I suppose that looking for an increased spread of this material is the most important part of the distribution of this material, not just in dealing with two individuals, but to a large number of people, e.g. in chat areas or in other ways online and even unspecified. I suppose that is why it is now considered a reason to add and to specify the word especially distributed in the law now, although the ability to produce other child abuses is already punishable. Here, too, it is suggested that there will be a special legal arrangement that will be a positive change. If you're convicted of violations against ordinances of either 210. a or b may, according to this source, increase the punishment by up to half. This law serves to handle the issues and the defendants who had been sentenced to such serious offenses against children. It's that mine knows what's good and mine knows it's a healthy criminal bitch. The law also presents specific viewpoints that consider the severity of a offense, a point to be considered in the decision of a penalty. It is also positive in my mind and in the good and the setting up of specific guidelines for the police, the prosecutions, and the courts in the matter of clearly defined who should be. Here, too, a provision is made for the highest degree. The Minister of Justice dealt with cases in which youths send e.g. pictures in between. That's a good suggestion. I'm gonna back her up, too. It must be worked and implemented according to the views given by the minister of justice, which is of good quality. A respectable president. I'm here to celebrate this case and that it's here because I believe that this is a very important legal hearing. In the end, I'm going to talk only about work management and respect for the interests of individual Congress. In this case, I'd like to let myself say that the interests are great. I refer to what above is attributed to the protection of children from pedophiles on the Internet. I would've liked to see that damage become a reality sooner. Could it have been? Yeah. In November of last year, I presented, along with many members of all categories at the council, the bill for the changed definition of child abuse in general penal law and a new penal frame for such offenses. The case had positive receptions and positive coverage. I thought it would be good to find support for the case here at the council and by the manager, a professional in the legal system, and a subversive organization. The interests behind were urgent and are still, I'd like to say. The objective was to update our legislation so that it could achieve bigger and more serious matters and protect our children better from these offenses. I allow myself to refer to the fact that in the discussion of Kompáss at Station 2 this winter, we were shown that, unfortunately, the need for a pair of Icelandic legislation is on the part of those in other countries is indeed available. That is why there was no particular reason for me to wait to win this case. Police have, for example. Now for the treatment of a fairly large issue, as shown in this same TV program, that they are now for research. We simply saw that there was no political disagreement on this matter. We can see that the movers came from all categories. The matter may not be that. It was ready for discussion and work on the side of the council. I'm going to tell you that we could have saved all our jobs by having two very similar people, almost identical to treat at the same time. There could have been savers working a certain amount of work to do, and they could have saved jobs by going back to the interests of stakeholders on the same subject. We are wasting time and money by standing here in a council hall discussing matters, as if it were new that we were treating several months ago. The bill of the Minister of Justice contributes to the same level of criminal justice. It suggests the same advice, which includes the same procedures, views that are viewed in evaluating the seriousness of wrongdoing. I allow me to mention this background here because I feel that this waste of time has not been necessary. Mr. President. It is my sincere hope that the case presented by the Ministry of Justice can become the first law.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u48	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before and will not begin to complain to him about the time of the bills. But I reiterate that I have supported the bill and supported it as the members of the Independence Party discussed whether the people were to be included, for the change was presented here by a judicial committee. Of course, it is not the same procedure as the one I studied in my speech, but I hope that this can speed up the work, for the very positive discussion that was created at the time of Congress. The senator showed up. Various other changes are suggested in this bill and including the following: Therefore it was delayed and occurred slightly later in the presence of this particular change. I hope so. The General and Education Committee is lucky to win this case along with the rest. Of course, I have no effect on the length of the time the bills are taking in the council, but I hope we have the good fortune to complete this matter quickly and safely, as it were. A senator came in.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u49	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct any changes in criminal treatment laws, but the goal of the bill is to improve the rightness of the offenders, of the disabled, and of the victims of dead persons, and thus to respond to the altered social attitudes of these persons in terms of matters that concern them, whether at a police level or after court time. The changes proposed in order to improve the rightfulness of the treatment can be severely divided into four parts, but it is right to draw attention to the fact that they are not expected to take up all the wrongs but to the most serious offenses against the body and the person. It is not unusual that such offenders are more appropriate than those who are less likely to be broken by offenders and lawyers. First, it is suggested that in cases where a wrongdoer has been assigned to a court official, he should be informed by the police about the development of a case unless it is considered to be a challenge to the investigation. In accordance with local law, the police are now only, as appropriate, to guide the rights of the offender. This involves a significant change in the responsibility of the police to inform the offender or the court guard on how an investigation takes place as necessary. Second, the bill holds the right of a richer court-care guard to access research. According to the current law, while an investigation is being carried out, a court official is entitled to access only the data relevant to his client's role in the case, and he is needed to protect the interests of the client. It is suggested that, instead of restricting this access to data related to the role of fracture tolerance, the rights of a court official will be deemed to allow access to the data of the case relating to fracture tolerance unless the police believe that the investigation would be a problem. In addition, the court official's right also has the right to deliver the information needed to protect the interests of his client, but it is warranted that there may not always be a right to provide access to data relating to violations and data as a justice officer or a violation of the right to be delivered, since they are needed to protect his client's interests. This must be determined by the events of each case, but in some cases it may be the right to get data delivered to be narrower than the right to access the data. Third, adjustments are made in an effort to ensure that the defendant will be brought to the point of appeal, even if the defendant has been exonerated in the province. This refers to the exclusive requirement of 1st. 172. law on the treatment of criminal cases, which states that the offender and anyone who feels that he has received the requirement that the defendant's exclusive rights be brought to justice by his criminal conduct. According to unscrupulous decrees against criminal treatment, such a requirement should now be dismissed by spontaneous removal of a criminal case, dismissed, or excused by a court of justice without being judged unconvinced. As a result, even Even if the prosecution insists on appeal of the acquiesc, the demanding person has no means to address his requirement for appeal therapy, for he does not consider himself a member of the criminal case, nor does he have the authority to prosecute the requirement. In other words, unless the defendant is later convicted at the higher level of judgment, a reformer actually falls away in the province. It's suggested at 193. g. the treatment of criminal cases is being added to such a new paragraph. According to it, the requirement for the treatment of the appeal case would be unaccounted to a state of unprediction and referral in its requirement. It should be noted that since the requirement has never been judged that material in the first judgment stage is not permitted, it is not possible to take a proper stand on it at the point of appeal. If an unsigned federal court should be agreed on the requirement, which, in most cases, would be on the basis of the conviction at the in appeal stage, would be required to re-treat a regional case in a specialised case. Fourth, we're suggested at 42nd. The law adds a new paragraph to ensure that, in the case of improvement in fragility, there is no review of appeal therapy, it is permitted to appoint him as a judicator for that treatment; however, it is necessary to include a report of the fracture tolerance during the appeal phase. V.E.G. President. The changes suggested to the trial of disabled persons can also include four factors. First, it is suggested that laws be added to include a report of wrongdoing, or a witness with mental or intellectual impairment, or with reduced perception, in a specialised home. Is here for definition 2. g. ; M.; M.; M.; M.; M.; M.; M.; M. 38/2018, where disabled people are defined as: ▪ People with long - standing physical, mental, or intellectual impairment or with reduced perceptions that are subject to various obstacles that can prevent a full and successful community involvement equal to others if help is not available. In view of the well - being of wrongdoers and the testimony under the law, it seems that there is good reason to add such a warrant to criminal treatment. Secondly, adjustments to 59th pars are proposed. reviewing the treatment of criminal cases, which discuss when it should be, or may be allowed to include a report of, prior to the trial period or other court hearings. It is suggested that the law should be clearly stated that it can be used in certain cases if there is mental or intellectual impairment, or impaired perception. Third, in the bill, it is suggested that a disabled defendant or a disabled witness be invited to bring with him a suitable head for reporting, whether in the police or in the court. This support provider may, e.g. Being a judge of the rights of disabled persons or others qualified for someone who himself is not a witness or a defendant in the matter. Fourth, it is suggested that a judge's authority be called upon to give a greeting to an expert to assist with reporting. According to current law, the warrant applies only to the fact that a report of a witness is under 15 years of age, but it is suggested that it also take place in case of a disabled witness. V.E.G. President. Finally, the bill has provided two adjustments in order to improve the rights of the victims of a deceased person and to provide them with better access to the progress of police research. In accordance with local laws, it is permitted to appoint a two-time violation of the so-called anti-surgent, i.e. If a wrongdoer is a minor or an attorney, and has a judge the same legal rights as if he himself had suffered from punishment. As a result, for example, the police and the prosecution have certain duties to counsel and information against an officer. Add a new paragraph to Article 39. The law states that if an investigation protects the cause of a person's death, a spouse or a partner's spouse, a legal child, or another lawgiver, a parent, or a relative's legal status may appear as a representative of the deceased. Only one of these parties is expected to appear as a representative of the dead. It should be noted, then, that the reason for the use of the word "judgment" rather than "station tolerance" is that at the beginning of a study, death is not always clear whether or not death will be attributed to criminal behavior or to an accident. It is reasonable that a person should have the option of appointing him as an officer even if at the outset it is not clear whether the deceased is considered to be resistant or not. This is closely related to the fact that if a judge of a deceased person has the right to assist him during the investigation of the case, he may personally obtain a supposed court official. Each case must be considered as to whether such a need is needed, but the court official's main obligation should be to protect the interests of the deceased under investigation. This is not the case with justice keepers as such, but as a result, the role of a court official in this regard is not to form a personal requirement according to the XXVI. the part of the law. I have now considered the key elements of the bill. Otherwise, it is referred to as an article and a comment to unique regulations. I suggest that the bill be following this discussion. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u50	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. I would like to ask about changes in the rights of the deceased. First, I'd like to ask about access to information, if access to those who are listed as being able to select an answer based on these changes is bound to this one reply. If this is not a good thing between the offspring and the spouse of the deceased, is it so that if one of them is an adversary, the other cannot have access to information or how it would be determined? If there is a controversy about who should take it in, how can we determine who is the right to answer? In the families of the deceased, not everyone agrees, so I wondered if there is some way the law can handle it, especially where it is stated that only one person must be an indictor. Let's start with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u51	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. Of course, this is an indiscriminate resource that is not present today, and we are trying to match various comments that have been drawn to some of the languages of the Icelandic community. For the purpose of information: It is shown in the report that people can agree on who is before them, but if a husband or a partner is not present, the right will be transferred to the law of a child or to the offspring of the deceased, and so on. In itself, then, there is no basis for them to agree on who to represent. But if those who have the right to act as judges, such as surviving parents, children, or siblings, do not agree, then the court will fall down. It was not considered to be sufficiently effective in having police decide on such indiscriminate measures as they are trying to access data that are not today and follow-up with an investigation. I think with this suggestion we're trying to meet it, and then we're going to have to get the experience of this indiscriminate arrangement, which, hopefully, will be a great improvement.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u52	A respectable president. This is certainly an obligatory provision, yet a law that I believe is a duty to fulfill if we look at our positive duties in accord with the European Convention of Human Rights. These responsibilities are especially strong when it comes to informing families of individuals who commit violence used by the police, i.e. individuals who pretend to be held by police or because of some kind of trouble with the police, as in the old-town case of about a year ago. It is very clear from the history of the European Court of Human Rights that there must be a wealth of information available to the family and to those of the deceased. I can't see that there's some kind of judgment story between the closest partners or that they'll have to choose someone alone to get that information. That's why I wondered if an officer - okay, there may be one thing about being able to access information and to be a specific spokesman for this group, but it's also time to obtain information about where the police study is and to press questions, etc., whether it's not a reason to expand it. I would like to turn only to the victims of those who die in police custody or because of fighting with the police because of what the bill says on page 5. 9. It says, with the permission of a president: ◯... that a representative of a deceased person, by his own wish, can get a nomad if he has, in the opinion of the police, a need for such assistance... Now I wonder, when a man's death is being caused by a police officer, is it also up to the police's opinion whether the officer needed a bailiff or not?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u53	A respectable president. I think that the requirement for the officers of a deceased person is something of a nature. The General and Education Committee will, of course, need to be examined. I don't think it's right to put the police in the position to determine the conflicts of the survivors, better be that they don't disappear from their mates to their children or from the survivors. A captain of the court has the same standing as if he had suffered the loss of his own criminal conduct. Of course, it's not the same police that investigatees the matter. Of course, if there are cases where police officers are involved or a potential defendant, it is very clear that they are not the same police detectives who are investigating the case. But there's something wrong. Of course, a global and educational committee needs to be examined and can then be considered in a manner where the police law is being discussed in the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u54	A respectable president. There are pieces of things in this bill. I'm going to step back to the one factor that has to do with the adjustment to the level of rightfulness of violations. It is long time to strengthen the level of violations of criminal treatment and all steps toward it are of the good. I just want to ask, "Why isn't this bill going all the way? The review of this article shows that there were reviews, including reviews. from the Hildur Antonsdóttir's daughter, who, if I recall correctly, has a PhD in the involvement of criminal tolerance, and the joint review of the African Women's Association of Iceland, the Women's Women's Women's Council, the Women's Women's Court of Women's Rights Society, the Rot, the Strategies, and the UN Women's World in Iceland, which say this is about every free partnership in Iceland that takes care of women's rights rights rights rights rights rights rights rights. These comments are consistent with wanting to go further in improving criminal rights in the treatment of crime and believe that it is proper to provide a formal criminal violation of the offense. It is discussed in the discussion section of the report with the words: ▪ It was considered inappropriate to make changes in the bill in view of these comments. I'd like to ask, Mr. President why not? We need a material answer. It is evident from the reading of the bill that these statements were not taken into account. No changes were made to warrant them. Why not, though, when all the evidence points to the process of contributing to wrongdoing in our own affairs?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u55	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. By means of the bill, violation tolerance is granted a variety of rights that are not available today. What remains, as a matter of course. A senator enters a case that would be a part of the matter, making decisions such as whether the charge is usually issued, what is accused, and what is required to be punished, as well as the decision of appeal. If this were to happen, there would be a much larger change, a fundamental change in Icelandic criminal rights, which would require careful consideration. Here, though, we are ensuring all other rights or responsibilities without making him the subject. Many factors need to be considered if such changes are made in Icelandic criminal rights. Among other things, consider how to handle a case in which the prosecution feels it is not right to appeal, but it is the way to do so. Is there some intention of dealing with the charges, perhaps with the existence of evidence and the publication of a document? The bill has been tried to improve the rights of violation resistance without interfering with these basics. I think we're doing a good job dealing with the reviews Hildur Four Antonsdóttir's daughter, who traced a number of factors to improve the situation of broken blood. It's gone very far in what I think is very important to improve access to information and to be able to keep a closer eye on the case that has been most called on. But these questions remain and would need much more work. I thought it right to make these changes quite positive and that they might end then at this council. However, it was not particularly evident in the review of Hildur Fjóla that it should be carried out all the way to bring in the subject of violations of human tolerance.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u56	Mr. President. If a further step were taken in administering violations of the criminal rights involved in self - mutilation, the minister would say, "A fundamental change in Icelandic criminal rights. " Maybe that's exactly where the knife stands in the cow. We need a basic change in Icelandic criminal rights, especially when it comes to sexual misconduct. In the joint review of all these women - rights organizations, it is noted that nine women have reported the United States to the European Court of Human Rights for violating their right to the righteous treatment. That there is self-injury involved is not only a way to strengthen their legal standing but also to promote police and prosecution, so that people who come to justice are not violated. A fundamental change in Icelandic criminal rights is exactly what we need. That's why it would have been worth the experiment to make it all that way in this bill. But hopefully this is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u57	A respectable president. Hv. A senator may, of course, think that he should have gone further and done it. However, here is a recommendation in the review of Hildur Antonsdóttir's daughter's House on the information supply and refractory status of the case. I think these changes are among the major changes that have been called on and hopefully will be greatly improved and may be taken care of during this council. I hope so. The General and Education Committee will discuss this case and not only will the legal rights of violations be improved, in terms of e.g. Sexual immorality also holds the rights of disabled people as well as those of the dead. I think with this bill we're taking a very important step in improving these cases before the courts, increasing their confidence with better information and better access to matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u58	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct various laws of insurance markets and banking markets. The bill's on the roof. 1159 and No. 689. The origin of the bill comes from three factors. First of all, its content is based on indications from Iceland's SEC that have identified problems or are inconsistency with their surveillance work in an insurance market. Second, certain changes in the bill are intended to respond to comments from the EFTA monitoring agency. Third, the bill contains a directive intended to complete or ensure proper introduction of European types. The bill suggests a few layers of change. These are insurance laws, No. 100/2016, insurance distribution laws, No. 62/209, insurance contracts, No. 30/2004, budgetary monitoring, No. 61/2017, and financial law, No. 161/2002. The changes in the bill are a primary policy for changes in terms and wording, which are designed to prevent incorrect interpretations or case of doubt. An example of the change in term use in the bill suggests that the term "president" will be replaced by the Commission's concept of insurance security law. The reason for this change is that the term manager is not used in other financial laws. Another example of altered term use is a new definition of the concept of a client in the insurance law for separating from the term insurance. The concept of a customer is important according to the law in which it involves both insurance and potential customers, i.e. Those who eventually don't make insurance deals. There is a high level of information on people who are spreading insurance, and it should be clear what information they should provide to customers and insurance companies on the other hand. The bill's key changes are set up in the insurance laws and the distribution of insurance that deal with qualications and appropriate conditions. The same principles apply to these aspects of the insurance market and to other financial markets and are important for the law to reflect them. I want to make sure that the changes are not a new statement in a financial market. Rather, they are instruments that take into account expressions like those in other laws. If the bill is legalized, there will be a more consistent rule than there are now a valid qualifications and conditions for the insurance market, bank market, stock market and pension market. A respectable president. The changes proposed in the bill are mainly technical and have to deal with legislation on the insurance market. In this context, the emissary of the II Parliamentis'opinions and letters emphasized that the terms and format of the law are such that those who believe that they have rights on their basis can discern whether they meet general requirements. The elements of this bill are consistent with the indications of an agent that require a clearer implementation in the law and harmony of homologous regulations in different laws. The bill's proposals are for simplicity and benefits to consumers, companies and parties at the insurance market. Then there is a positive influence on the surveillance of the UN. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee, after the end of this discussion and then through 2nd. Here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u59	I hereby recommend a bill to legalize various taxes and fees, for innovation, interest, taxation committee, etc. The aim of these changes is to strengthen and strengthen the tax environment of innovation companies, individuals and other legislation, as well as needed corrections and changes in tax laws. I intend to review each bill's proposal and start with the taxation of the stock market. First of all, executives of innovation companies who purchase stocks under the company's prenup can delay tax treatments until the stocks are sold. This means making room for the current terms of income taxation in such cases. The change would delay tax treatment on the basis of the provision not limited to the employee of the respective partner but would also extend to the rulers of the respective partner without the existence of a special salary relationship between the manager and the company. However, there is a requirement for the applicant to be a innovation company in the sense of a law on supporting innovation companies and to meet the law of working on research and/or development projects regardless of whether all such projects have received Ranni's confirmation. The objective of this is that, to a greater extent, innovation companies can gain expertise from members of the Society, thus retaining knowledge within the society by remuneration with reimbursement without any taxation coming sooner than the person who sells the stocks. The matter really is just when it comes to taxation, not whether the rights are taxed. Next to another factor that is taxation of changing bonds. Here, a change in tax gain is proposed by the owner of changing bonds. Such changes in stocks at lower prices than those in general in the market are currently taxed in the utilisation of change rights in the case of legislators. However, the interest of individuals is taxed at the sale of letters rather than at the time point when the right of change is used. Therefore, if the owner is to earn a income tax, he will have to pay for the year when the cash exchange in stocks is changed, although he does not yet earn the profits of higher prices for the stock markets. It is suggested that the taxation should be postponed by two-year-olds in the case of a legal agent. However, this is only relevant for business with a modified bond to a legislator who is subject to a proposal to support innovation companies and meets the law of working on research and/or development projects, regardless of whether all such projects have received Ranni's confirmation. The third item on stock exchange. This suggests that the sales of an individual outside the workplace, which results in stock exchange for stocks in another partner, private partner or partner society under the law on income taxes, is not considered to be taxable on the income until the stocks are sold. To the fourth thing, which is a change in the Treaty on the head tax committee. Here are three changes in the laws of the head taxation committee. First, there is a change in the cost of judicial matters. In accordance with the laws of the head tax committee, the Committee can determine the payment of financial expenses if the decision by the Committee is made in favor of certain conditions met. The head tax committee has established a protocol on the decision of the legal expenses available on the website of the Committee and is proposed to improve in terms of this procedure by the Committee. Second, there is a change in the law's law on that the head tax committee should have six men appointed for six years and four members of the Committee should have the main job. The number of cases for the head tax committee has been reduced in recent years, and since 2018, there has been only one committee who has not the main job at the Committee. Hence, a change is proposed that two committees who do not have the full - time job are not obliged to be appointed as members of the committee, thus allowing room for only one such committee to be appointed according to their individual circumstances. Third, a change in the matter of reimbursement is proposed, so that the laws of the law are not limited to the decisions of the governor of the state, but also to the decisions made by other governments, approved to the head of the tax authorities. The fifth point of the bill is the change in the law on the local tax pay on finance. The changes proposed to the laws on local tax pay on capital gain are due to the change that took place last spring. At that time, funds were paid between partners, private partners, and partnerships by the local tax subsidies of capital income. When it came to the change, it was found that interest between such partners would not result in final taxation by the recipient on income tax laws as a warrant for the reduction of the underdeveloped income from income tax stocks. Even so, the payer would be obliged to keep his payment and return it to a government fund. In fact, the deduction duty would result in disaster for both the receiver and the recipient's interest as well as the government's funds would not directly make money from the pay paid standards. It has now been noted that the above change involves discrimination between partners, since this change does not include money or money paid or assigned from the above partners to buyers, partners, and other associates, although the same evidence can apply to these forms in this respect. It is suggested that businesses and other partnerships also be subsidized from local capital taxes to as much as part-of-part enterprises because of what they have received or paid from partners, private partners and partners. Then a new provision is proposed for temporary discontinuation, instead of a comparable provisional arrangement that determines how to prepare local payment for changes in the tax rate of income. The requirement is updated according to the current tax ratio for the periods it will take, but in other respects it remains unchanged. The sixth item I'd like to introduce is a change in the law on the extra income of the state funds. A law lacking and the registration of other amateur partners is proposed to pay the public interest of cross-border activities. In addition, in accordance with the bill of Justice Minister of Justice, regarding the change in marriage law, it is suggested that a fee be made for the release of an exploratory certificate culminating in recognition of weddings carried out abroad, but there is no question as to whether there is a requirement for the registration of the marriage ceremony. The risk for visas is then suggested to increase according to March 2021 Faults. The reason for the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council can be followed in accordance with the rules for visas requiring a consistent payment. The seventh scene involves changes in general penalties. The bill suggests changes in general penalties following the judgment of the southern province, which was pronounced last January. The charges against the case were acquitted of a major offense against 1 mg. Section 262. general penalties on the grounds that the provision did not specifically refer to local tax payment on capital income, i.e. the wrong arrangements. The bill suggests changes to 1 and 2 mg. Section 262. general penalties requiring reference to penal law in other laws are also included in the appropriate legal requirements in the case of gross offenses. This is a law on local tax pay on capital gains, on genetic taxes, on fiscal taxes, and on a set of clock taxes. Otherwise, the changes do not include any material changes in the proposed laws. The eighth point concerns the end of stress. Changes are made in the course of the end period of stress. The Treaty on The State Radio and the Law on the issues of the elderly is required for remuneration in the event of a continuation of pressures until June 1 or November 1. Presently, the end of the pressures and extensions of the pressures file is no longer being performed at the same time, and therefore changes are proposed to delay the end of the pressures past the previous date is moving around the payday. Thus, the result will be the end of stress, not the extension of the stress logs, since there has been a change in input of the stress files now submitted 15 days before the end of the hearing, whether by individuals or by law. A respectable president. The changes suggested in the bill are of a variety of ways, as can be said about their effectiveness. It is assumed that the financial impact of the change in taxation rights, exchange of stocks, and changing bonds will be in the future, although some transfer may take place in income tax dollars from year to year. It is not believed that the bill's proposal that businesses and other partnerships will be the exception of a local budget tax subsidies to the same extent as participants because of what they have received or paid money has directly affected the income of a trust fund. However, the suggestion will likely have some effect on his boiling flow. Other proposed changes in the bill are expected to have no meaningful effect on the survival of state funds, individuals, and legislators. These are necessary changes in tax laws that will strengthen and strengthen the taxable environment of individuals and lawmakers and will lead to a clearer understanding of the relevant tax legislation as well as the purpose of them to promote further prosperity for the future. The proposals of the bill will influence the control and management of some of the taxpayers in terms of the law. A respectable president. According to this, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u60	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct the change of various laws to meet the economic impact of a pandemic crown virus. Details regarding payment of local and insurance bills, as well as the assessment of special property savings. The bill suggests that legal and employment agencies are authorized to distribute local and insurance fees, which were delayed in 2020 by law on the change of public pay and the law on insurance and the law on changing the law to face the economic effects of a pandemic Korean virus and that men will be allowed to set up certain conditions. It is suggested that applications be received for the distribution of the tax service site and that the resources of the network will be implemented and collected by the tax. The bill assumes that applications and all implementations will be electronic. It is also suggested that persons on the authority to re-use their special property and to restore it to this year. The same definitions of the application period as the financial level and were registered last year, 2020, as part of the government's response to the epidemic, allowing up to 12 billion. K. which will be paid out over a period of 15 months. It has been said that individuals have requested to the government that this assessment will continue. In view of the fact that the epidemic's impact may be much longer than initially thought and that unemployment is still high, it is considered appropriate to recommend temporary reimbursement. Thus, those who have not already received it will be able to use the available resources on the same criteria as previously valid. A respectable president. The distribution of payments due to the continuation of the labour market will have the effect of delaying and distributing the expenses of the remuneration. On the increase in payment of deposit and insurance fees due to 2020, 831 members attended, of which 46 were employed and 785 were registered. A total of 8.4 billion dollars were paid. suspended. It is expected that many of the people applying for the payment of local and insurance fees will be further distributed, as there is still a lack of income outlets due to the pandemic. It is then believed that the interests of the state's funds will be better paid by further payment, and this bill will be legal and will ensure the pay of the suspended pay. It is estimated that many will take advantage of the extrasustaining and that the total amount of money will be in the range of 6.5How7.5 billion! Exploited ownership is a income tax obligation and therefore has a positive effect on the income of the state's budget during the period of payment. The overall effect depends on how many people will use the source and on the amount of tax from income tax pay. During 2020, a total of 18,386 persons used the taxable assessment of property savings, a total of 28.5 billion. Paid out. Thus, some new options have been made, and this has helped to maintain the legal rights of the households. There has been some appeal for its extension, and it is likely that the government will fulfill the challenge that all of us have to support our homes and businesses as the epidemic continues to exert its influence. Last year's circulation was about 3% of the property of the special property funds and is not expected to be a problem in financing further funds. A respectable president. This bill continues with a powerful government support for people and businesses due to the ronovirus epidemic, but both resources have been useful to soften its economic impact. According to this, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u61	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Secretary of finance for the past, and state that I support the bill. I wondered, though, about some factors around the point of the review of property savings. First of all, in one sentence in the bill, the President's permission: However, it should be possible that the funds currently used by the home will not be available at some future time and will later reduce the provisional resources of these households. Has the highest. The purpose of this publication, i.e., is not to be feared by the secretary of finance. The original authority to add to its special property, that it will be watered out a little when men and women can take their money out sooner in this way? Is that in itself a desirable development? It will also help us to see in general how far we have taken in allowing the review of these savings to take place sooner than expected. Now I know that there are many people in big trouble. Has the highest. Does a minister not worry that we are creating a certain temptation problem for people who may not now need to take out and defend this one in all kinds of things, thus becoming more difficult as old age moves on?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u62	A respectable president. I think it's a valid viewpoint, and it's important to think about it. I'm not worried about this, though. I think that if we look at the development of the property saving system all over them, we'll see that there's been growth in the system even though we've had some extensive tax-free access to budgets. In connection with these matters, it was my opinion that we were increasing the freedom of people to build up money for a long time. In this case, however, it is a clean assessment against tax pay. You might ask yourself, " Am I moving in so that there is something that undermines the safety of older people?'But I think that because we are only talking about the extra pensions, free saving, it's not a reason to worry about it. And then I have to point out, that recently a large part of the labour market has agreed to raise the pension rights from 12% to 15.5%, so we have been growing the savings of the population. It was, of course, the public market. I feel like I've become more and more on the official discussion of our pension system that if there's anything, we could save a lot of money, we're reaching up to a relatively high percentage of the average money in later years. It is worth a special discussion. My opinion in this regard is that we should continue to promote saving. But I feel that we should increase people's freedoms in order to make decisions about how in particular the additional pension money is spent.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u63	President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. As a result of this comment: Is it time to consider that we stop calling it a special pension arm and start discussing some kind of bound savings with certain conditions, and that we do not necessarily connect with the older years? In this context, you may also wonder, " Is it wise or is there equal in the fact that a certain type of assessment solves the tax, such as investing in the first apartment, or is it protected on a head chair where it is actually never paying taxes? ' If that is the case, why would a person not be allowed to shift his savings to some other fund? Because I expect the other person's thinking is that the savings are being maintained, which is not a gapanite for what we know. In real estate, there are many things that happen so that you can easily lose the savings there. So the other way, if we allow these checks we do, I'm not making myself any difference about it, I'm just thinking about all of these matters: Have they ever come up with something to talk about, or have they wondered whether those who take out now and pay taxes on special savings will be allowed in some way to comb back into the same system? You can then put much more into your special savings because people were temporarily saving themselves than they wanted to go back in there for some reason. I don't know if anyone would want to, but I just wondered if it would be wise to allow men to return their money at a better time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u64	A respectable president. I have not wondered if it might serve any purpose to allow people to return the system. I don't exactly see how it's going to work. But I am stressing that the case we are discussing here, which is the authority to take out the additional pension money before it is time, is temporary. This is only because of the specific circumstances that have been presented here, and we should strive to protect the system as such so that the implementation is guaranteed as the pension age approaches. But it does not change my view that just when it comes to free saving, we should increase our freedom in the way of the saving process. Then I refer to more self-inflicted examples of whom they choose, or whether those in the individual will simply choose to hold these savings in binding accounts that they cannot solve. Such systems are known to be by means of the pension system. I think it's time to consider whether individuals should be free to have a direct relationship, without some intermediate role, e.g. stock or some other savings forms. Then individuals would make their own decision, being free of extra pension.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u65	Mr. President. I'm in a place similar to what I'm doing. Thirteenth. We're out of Suðvest. "and wondered how the assessment of the special pension was made. It's like the highest. According to a minister, he views this warrant as a preliminary strategy and believes that it is important to protect the system as such. At some point, though, we must ask ourselves: Are we doing so? How many times do we have to resort to preliminary measures that will cap only from the special pension savings system before we have destroyed that system? I don't even have a count on how many resources have been going on here in the councilroom in the last few years, where the special pension savings has been used, not as a pension fund, but as some sort of crisis reserve for people, to help them either reduce the payload from the mortgage or get a temporary financial situation. It's all a good price, but it's not a pension savings if we're always playing it off. It says that during the past year, 3% of the available resources have been extended. How much has this system been taken out in recent years? Has it been examined? I also feel a little uncomfortable that there is no information about how much of the group that took advantage of the last year were unemployed at the same time. This analysis might reveal that it was people who were reasonably earnings for Covid who lost their jobs and used these resources to bridge the gap. [[The president calls.]] Today, people are being invited to bridge the gap another year to some uncertainty. Then we have helped these people break both ends of what should be the end of old age.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u66	A respectable president. I'm stressing that we're here to make the adjustment of access to special savings because of a very special situation. Actually, there are three systems that have to do with our special savings today. First of all, it is a permanent source, not temporary, for first-time shop shopkeepers to use their special savings to buy out their first apartments to build their own money. That's what I think it was. It's been very successful. It had the independent purpose of supporting young people in getting a roof over their heads. In all of this, let us also remember that property is a major possession outside the pension savings of people who are completing their working years, where property is also a form of savings. Second, we have this authority, which has been in force in the past few years and is running a period in the middle of the summer, and we are preparing for the extension of the amount of funds that is authorized to take on the tax-free and arranged on mortgages. This is a warrant that has been used for the last 61⁄27 years with extensions. By means of these resources, homes have taken out over 80 billion tax - free to improve their property status. These questions can be considered in the following suggestions. But I think when we look all over the system, we're not cutting such a jagged off that there's something to worry about. I think it is far more important to make a personal decision whether to pay taxes today to improve their income.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u67	A respectable president. I noticed some interesting words from the highest level. A minister in the contrary, that with one of the talks he mentioned, individuals were made possible to cut out 80 billion in order to improve their property status. This is a little interesting because people take these 80 billion because of their own property, their special savings. I think it's part of the problem we're facing in this ongoing pursuit of the special pension savings to improve other social problems, that it's already people's property. That the government allows people to take out their pension savings sooner or later, against paying taxes, not in all cases, but often, is not what these 80 billion people's property status indicates. But what I want to stress here is that, as shown in the report with the bill, there is no analysis of which group to serve. What if there were a group that would be much more effective if they increased the basic unemployment gains or were still extending the income - related period of unemployment? We are talking about a group of nearly 20,000 people, and the state encourages this group to eat from what could be called the future treasure store to survive the crisis of the day, rather than the use of a heavy government fund to help the people get through today's economic crisis. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u68	A respectable president. The authority to take out an additional pension savings, in order to pay on mortgages, is rooted in the situation that existed a few years ago, and had become an independent economic problem, that the home's debt had deteriorated very seriously. We had a very extensive operation, one in the so - called corrections of debt, and the other on the other hand, giving a warrant for the assessment of additional pensions for this purpose. If we hadn't done this and just given the time when they could take out their special savings, the tax would have been paid by that assessment. Therefore, I definitely say that this is an operation that worked very well to improve homes' property status, helping many to keep their homes in spite of debts that had grown in the financial breakdown. Then you might ask yourself, " Could I be better able to expand my move or to use this tool that we present today, which is an assessment of the tax pay on my property savings? ' I don't think it takes long to calculate that it would be for very many, all unemployed, and those who are dependent on subsidies for a special position, that it would be better to get compensation paid out of state funds. Then there are others who are not in that position but who want to improve their provision now because of the situation. There may be a wide variety of reasons. I don't think that we should send that message to people that we are going to be quite gentle and considerate of them by forbidding them into our own savings.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u69	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize the stock market. The bill was employed in the Ministry by means of a committee appointed to the highest economists, and it adds up to a new board of stocks. The bill includes the introduction to Icelandic rights of the Directive 2014/91/EU for retail work, job policy and infrastructure. The Directive contains changes to older stock directives in relation to the development of the market and the market experience of the participants, with the aim of improving the weaknesses that had been identified in terms of the regularity of stock funds and up to a certain extent, in line with the requirements of the Directive 2011/61/EU for the operators of specialized funds. The primary objective of the change is to increase the protection of investors and increase the transparency of stock markets. It is also suggested that the 2010/78/EU Directive for the change in various directives in terms of the financial control domain of the European institutions, or Omnibus 1 as it is called, be given a legal value in this country in terms of the stock market. Today is the day of law No. 128/2011 about the stock market. It is suggested that the entire budget of the stocks be set up, but in general it is not proposed to make changes in the requirements of existing laws, except in the manner that the aforementioned directives are required. However, there was thought to be a need for individual changes in format and addition when compared with the requirements of current legislation in order to enhance the introduction of the previous stock directive 2009/65/EC introduced into the stock market in 2013. It is proposed that financialenterprising laws be agreed on to the stock market, mainly in terms of the requirements for the management board's licences, job permits, and working conditions. In general, this does not involve any changes in the local rights. It is also suggested that business funds are no longer considered financial enterprises under financial law, but financial institutions, such as those of the business managers of specialized funds, such as it should be that we would like the Icelandic law environment to reflect more closely the concept of use in the European principles that apply to a financial market in the European Economic Area. - All of the above considered that instead of changing existing laws, the whole set of stock laws would be proposed. The main changes proposed to the current stock stock laws are, first of all, that the role of the requisite funds is made clearer, and the arrangements for their responsibilities are reformed. It is defined as to which persons may be remanded and conditional for the disposition of their tasks to the third party. More than that, there is a strict demand for the independence of the executives and the business partners of the stocks. In accordance with current legislation, there is a specialised law on the mismanagement of a member of the management board followed by a report by the World Commission following the 2008 financial collapse. It is not recommended to be modified unless the stricter requirement is stricter on the basis of the directive, i.e. It is recommended that the manager in the management board of stocks be also a manager or employee of the fund's funds. Similarly, the management officer of the stock market is also a member or employee of a business union. In the current law, the limitations of the management board members to the management board and key personnel of stakeholders and motherhood, as well as the majority of the executives, are to be independent of the motherhood partner of a business union and the management of funds in the management of a business society. Second, it is suggested that the laws on employment permits, employment permits, and planning requirements of business funds will be taken from financial companies and that their unions are no longer considered financial companies but will be classified as financial institutions. Third, a number of adjustments are proposed to the current law on how to invest stocks. The directive has new warrants and provide sources for investment in up to 25% of holdings in debt bonds under the laws of special bond bonds or comparable bond bonds in a state in the European Economic Area and then to use so-called investment methods, e.g. Stock loans or reciprocated stock trade, in order to achieve the effective management of funds. In order to maintain harmony with the directive, there is an additional scope for business unions to correct aberrants in terms of investment rights, the source of financial funds is laid on to obtain a foreign currency through trade agreements, and a change in the investments of stocks is made. There is a fourth priority on the surveillance and authority of Iceland's SEC, as well as on cooperation with other Member States in the European Economic Areas, such as in the case of field observations and research, information exchange, in which cases it may be permitted to deny the petition for cooperation and recovery of a conflict between law-made authorities, all in order to harmonise minimum legal legislation within the European Economic Area and to reflect the new surveillance environment in the financial market which was established in the following financial crisis in 2007◯2008 by the Regulation (EU) No. 1092 to 1095/2010. Fifthly it is suggested that business partners be required to implement job policy policies covering the worksheets and personnel of the management organisation, and the policy and implementation should contribute to effective risk management and to the excessive risk management that is inconsistencies with the risk profile and policies of the funds. The Directive's regulations for work policy and its implementation will only be implemented to a small extent, but in another respect, it will be submitted by the implementation of the regulations due to the proposed changes to the financial law for the implementation of a comparable directive of 2013/36/ESB. It is reasonable that these changes will be made at the same time in order to maintain a financial agreement with a labour market. There are also some changes in the legislation on the management of specialized funds, particularly in terms of the change in terms of the concept of investment funds due to specialized funds authorised to market general investors. It is suggested that special funds be referred to for public investors instead of investment funds. These are proposed changes to the requirements of the stock markets that play a role in the management of specialized funds and that are stricter requirements for the independence of the administrations of specialized funds for public investments and managers who operate such funds in the same manner as proposed for the value of financial funds. At the same time, it is suggested that the operators report to the FEC to the new operating funds in order to facilitate the monitoring of the specialized funds of registered operators. A respectable president. The fiscal directive includes minimum Member States' requirements for enforcing the national rights. Stronger standards are required, but they are not allowed to go short. In 2008, in the current stock market laws, there are some expert regulations that followed the fall of banks. These measures are for the sake of remuneration, mismanagement, management of business partners, and investment documents of money markets. It is not suggested that these regulations be removed or changed unless the scope of the directive's directives goes beyond that. It is also not suggested that new underweight specialists be prescribed or stricter requirements than those stated in the directive, unless it is permitted by the members of the Member State to obtain a trust fund which is devoted to the requirements set out for member authority on the land. A respectable president. The regulations proposed in the bill will affect all the active businesses of stock funds, the Marketing Authorisationr of specialized funds and their retailers. It will also be influenced by the registration centres of specialized funds, but only due to minor changes in the surveillance, repair and cooperation of the competent authorities in the regulations of the operators of special funds and the notifications of new management funds. It is thought that temporary projects will be carried out, such as by the application of stocks to the National SEC, which would require them for the possession of stock funds, as well as for the negotiations of partners with retailors, but that in the long term there will be little impact. The activities of the UN will increase, mainly as a result of increased control of stakeholders of stock markets. In addition to the activities of the FDA, there will be a meeting within the management programme. The Internet impact on government funds will be small or nonexistent. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee following this discussion and then the 2nd. Here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u70	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct the change of various laws due to the rise of minimum currency funds and regulations of the specified special property. The bill's on the roof. 1179 and No. 700. The bill includes some. proposed changes due to government declarations in connection with the implementation of the labour market biographies agreements since April 2019. I will now review key forms of the bill: First, it is suggested that the initial target age when righting procedures for pension, now from 16 years of age, will be increased to 18 years. This is only to be in agreement with the rights of nursing a pension in the Social Security Act. Second, the minimum pay for a pension fund is suggested to be increased from 12% to 15.5% of the population strain, in line with the changes made in collective agreements. Third, the average number of rights to monthly pensions is suggested to be 1.8% per year of the monthly pay and thus increase from 1.4% or 56% of the average to 72% of the average wage over 40 years. Fourth, there is a warrant for cohesion in total or in part the increase of the minimum fee for the specified special property. The use of this source reduces average rights levels from 1.8% per year to up to 1.4% per year. It is permitted to start the assessment of the specified special property when a source of funds has reached at least 62 years of age and should be evenly distributed over a period of five years. At the death of a fundmate, the property falls to an heir. Fifth, it is suggested that pension funds and other stakeholders authorized to receive the specified special property should be made mandatory in sending the tax to the demolition of a provision for each person's pension. Is this necessary, since the law allows a pension payment to be arranged so that part of it is devoted to the establishment of the pension rights in partnerships and, in part, to the establishment of the pension rights of a special property. At the same time, there is a new provision for the financial and financial resources at hand. 3 mg Section 8. The law is required to specify the payment of a part of the speciality due to a pension payment, at the time. 1.mg. 2.g. Relations on related insurance and pension funds, No. 129/1997, and what part of the special property is created has been based on the additional tax for special possession. Sixth, it is suggested that pension payments be guaranteed monthly, but instead they are paid on January 1 per year in line with the change in the index value of the next year. Seven, it is suggested that pension funds be permitted electronic publications of pension fees and information on the future pension rights. A seamate will still be able to select the summary of paper. Finally, it is suggested that while a collective contract still accounts for 12% of dierent fees, the minimum fee is allowed to be 12%, until the parties meet for a change in the ratio in the corresponding collective agreement. The minimum tax rate thereafter should be 15.5%. A respectable president. I'd just like to stop back at the increase from 12% to 15.5% of the population farm and recall that this is part of a very large market operation that has to balance the market's pension rights. It is not only a matter of vital pension rights, but because we have long and perhaps for decades been able to compare with such a degree of control and rhythm in the dress interview between the general market and the public, where the general market has generally been responsible. Then there's something wrong with whether it's the public market that wants to compare with what's going on in the public market or that the public market looks to the general public and says: "There have been some changes that require correction on our side. Just in order to minimize the difference between markets, a lot of people have been worked out, I just want to say, take this big step. It is thus building up for the future in Iceland that it is independent of whether people worked in public or public markets, but people over their working hours were developing rights reflected in 15.5% of the legal standards. I think this is a very desirable change, and I think there's a lot of effort to make this work. What we find, however, now that we make this bill a second time, in fact, for the first time here in the Senate Hall, but we have had a different version of this bill in discussion and in consultation, there are all kinds of views based on who looks at the subject. I just want to say in general that it is not unexpected that a variety of interests occur when a change is made. One is simply to determine what kind of rights to be bound to these additional 3.5%. How should we frame it and define its rights? I think we've heard every silly idea you can think of. On the part of the public unions, we have heard that the general market is uncomfortable in creating new rights for these 3.5% because there are no such privileges of 3.5%, from 123/4,15.5%, in public funds, in the public markets. In itself, you can show that you have a point of view, but the position you are trying to correct is exactly that one side is only 12% while the public market is 15.5%. That's the problem we're trying to solve. In fact, in this view it is being said that it would be best not to go to the designated special property but would preferably go into some kind of cohesion. It's a point of view, let's say, part of the public market. At the other end, those who want this addition, this 3.5%, simply enter the special delivery system, the additional pension system as we know it. I think the story is somehow something that the employment organization had the idea at its time, I wonder if it wasn't 2015 and 2016 that it was between the parties; that it was originally the concept of a company of industry that the employee should be able to take these 3.5% and take care of themselves in the extra pension system with all the advantages and weaknesses involved in that system. But on the other hand, a deal with ASI was not successful, and then it was a deal to negotiate the specified special property. The government, who, of course, wanted to support the efforts of the major workers in the workforce to solve this, rejoiced that an agreement had succeeded in going up to 15.5% and declared the willingness to bring it into law. This bill is about it. However, on this journey, several small waves and several nods have been taken, and there have been conflicts in the process. I think it's safe to say that many of the things they thought they agreed were not properly implemented. It was therefore up to us in the Ministry of Economics to post it on paper and to implement it because there were various applications which had not been taken into account in the discussions of the individual at the time, and it was up to us to organise them. Some of them are here. I can, for example, continue my talk by coming in to some of the updates. Next time we can talk about support to buy at the first apartment. The proposal to change the law is mainly to turn on the tax-free access rights of individuals to use the specified special property to buy the first apartment housing in addition to the provision of an additional tax-employment fee. It is also suggested that individuals who have not been registered owners to an apartment building for five years since the release of the tax application be authorized to take advantage of the same special savings options as buyers of the first apartment. I think it's a very good thought behind this. This is particularly useful in groups of employees who are not there in the pay ladder that collect in the extra pensionary system that are likely to maximise their rights to this arrangement; the pay is simply not high or that the person has not had the additional pension money. Then there may be a particular gap between groups, and it can be lifted with the money - rich people, for it can take on the tax - free form for the same purpose. I think it's a very good thought behind this. I'm not gonna belittled that they exist, as we see at least in the media of some in the labor movement, who feel that these restrictions and specific rules should not apply at all to the 3.5% but simply to go into the extra pension system and that nothing is causing them to interfere. Then, in itself, men could have used the additional pension system, as we have been discussing here today, in connection with another matter, to make arrangements to buy their first apartment. Then it would've just come together, and I can see the benefits of it. However, this is an attempt to reflect the will of those who have agreed to make a move. This is the second factor in the implementation here that is very important, and there is a change in social security laws and laws on the subjects of the elderly. It is thus in the bill that the terms of the law will be changed and that the rights of pension should not be determined to reduce the decision of pension, income insurance, and provision under social insurance laws. This is important. We're here discussing how these 3.5% can be taken out without limiting the rights of the social security system. This is one of the battles at which the government budget rests, saying: Does it not call it that our members are also allowed to enjoy the specified special property if the situation allows them to choose to build that right and that they have already looked sufficient to the secondary effects on the social security section of the system? I think it is most honor to say that there is a possibility that those in the public systems would want to enjoy this freedom. But it may not come out well for each person. As an example, I mention that the microenergy pension rights in the pension insurance system are partly linked to what the situation is on the social security rights. If you have chosen to be useful in this case -- I just want to mention this as a judgment here - the right to build up 3.5% of the specified special property, then there is less rights in the cohesion section that can again be played out into a lower disability rights further in case of disability, so there are many angles to looking into these materials. I'd like to mention here that in the bill there are proposals for secondary changes in income taxes and the law on the welfare of the employees of the state. It goes on to indicate that the terms of the increase in minimum amount to the pension fund and the specified ownership will be legalized. If the minimum tax increase and the specified ownership is legalized, there are secondary changes to this law on income taxes and the State's Pension Fund. A respectable president. There are a number of employees in a general labour market who already pay 11.5% in a pension fund. According to the annual accounts of the pension fund, the range of paypayers varies by fund, is reaching 11.5% already. Excuse me, this is the pay zone. So there are many remuneration earners who already pay 11.5% in favor, with a range of 7 775,1000%. Let's say it's not 100% and it's not 77%, it's somewhere in the range, which is already paying the payoff. For this reason, the changes mentioned in the bill are to touch fewer people. Then I'd also like to mention that more ways to collect your pensions through the development of the specified special property will increase the potential of cashiers to reserve their savings in the most convenient way. The specified special property has it, e.g. However, beyond payment in terms of insurance, it comes into play in terms of one special property savings, while a cashier prefers to make the arrangements for his pension savings in part in the designated holdings of his pensions at the end of his working career, to a lesser degree, came from a cohesion fund than would have been, as if I me only traced back a few minutes ago, and the bail protection, as well as the example of which I traced, may be cut off. I just want to come through a few things that I mentioned. It is suggested here that while a collective contract has a minimum of 12%, it is permitted to make contact. Why is this article on the bill? I think it's the most simple thing to say that it is there because at the time of a contract in the labour market to go up to 15.5%, not everyone agreed to that agreement. Not all sides were at the agreement. Governments have considered it very important to be intervening and support major structural changes that the workers have agreed on by agreement, and we are following the legal agreement and thus pave it in stone. But there is a limit to the extent to which we can interpret the agreements of those involved. While others who were not directly involved in the contract have not agreed to go to 15.5%, it would be very far off on us to legalize 15.5%. I'm thinking, for example. that if the council had come here without a complete discussion with them and only legalized 15.5%, they would have accepted the agreement. I think it would have been taken a little bit. Actually, I think it would've cooked up. In this regard, I think we must consider this article, only those who were not directly involved in the agreement. It is not that a person can commit to those whom he is not authorized in this regard. I say this even if the lawgiver has, of course, unbounded hands in this subject. We can, of course, establish laws on the subject, but I think it's much better to allow people to make room for an agreement on this. That can include: The workforce had to be adjusted in different ways. A respectable president. Here I have considered some of the key points, or all of the points, and I have entered the story and explanations behind specific issues. This is, as I mentioned at the beginning, a bit complicated and touching a delicate group: it's complicated as it touches that it seems to follow very much from which seat men look at the matter which view they look at it. This is a matter that has a very practical significance for many employees in the country, we could say the vast majority. But the basis for the case, the positive change is from 12% to 15.5%. I would like to emphasize, no matter how different opinions are involved, that we should be united to protect that important system change. To seal a change to 15.5% is an important and important matter for an Icelandic labour market. In this regard, it is proper to assume that I have on my desk a letter for green-book work on the whole pension system. We have much to ask questions, including the following: for the future of the system, what change is needed in the light of changes in the environment. In recent years, the growth of the agricultural system has been very successful. The size of the system has its challenges. The system is complicated, too. What can we do to simplify our system? I'm personally inclined to believe that we should add to the freedom of funds in order to have power to save money, especially the additional pensions. There's only one small part of a lot of people that needs to be discussed. Secular democracy in the Pension Fund is worth the discussion, and many things related to the self - pension system need to be considered in this work. It's not part of the already existing conference, but I just wanted to let it happen here that we're about to start this job. One of the major issues in this regard is e.g. Just the pension age, when are we gonna take a pension in the future? The people are getting old. What do our calculations tell us if we need to move the criteria of a pension age? There, sustainability should be our guide in all discussions, that we make sure there is no bleeding in the system. There's a lot of discussion waiting for us. It is often discussed here at the council, e.g. I think we should extend our years to people, and I'm so generally in favor of people's opportunities to work as long as they choose. There are many things to look at, too. A respectable president. I've cleared up my case and I want to suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u71	A respectable president. Just before the top. A minister who began his career received a letter from the Federal Republic of Iceland. If a minister had not been able to look at his e - mail box, the morning morning morning paper revealed a similar news that I expect a minister to look at perhaps more frequently than the local e - mail, where the Common Union makes serious comments to the Ministry's case on this matter. It goes so far as to say that the secretary of finance is breaking paper in history by offering proposals for changes in the pension system without consulting a representative of the workers, but making such an impression. It tells the German Union that because the bill is made up of its entire team in consultation, the experiment is that at least three important factors in the bill are contrary to the wishes of the labor movement. I'd like a minister to explain this to the Congress because it's not about our different vision of implementation in this bill, as it were to be heard about some of the points of the Minister, but only a basic procedure when it comes to dealing with the rights of working people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u72	A respectable president. That is, first of all, so this matter has not only been revealed before, but it has been in about that. Two years of work in the Ministry. There have been a number of interviews, both with the Association of Professionals and ASI, the ASI Penitentiary Committee. But it is not that we are trying to argue that every aspect of the bill was accepted and blessed by either person or by any of the people who were consulted. It's not like I'm asking permission from ASI or any other party to put a bill in charge of the Council. There is nothing to say in the bill that each of the factors has been won so that everyone is overly content. However, the discussion was discussed, and I was in the long run at the root of the matter. Increase to 15.5%, export to that, that's the problem. And exactly what I mentioned in my history: it makes a difference which seat you look at, what you think of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u73	A respectable president. Let us consider the case from the seat of the people whose rights are to be cut off, according to this letter of the Common Union. What about the rise in pensions from 16 years to 18 years, how many hundreds of millions are being moved every year from working young people to professional pockets? Let's talk about changing the price of pension rights so that they are calculated each year rather than every month, where are you putting the risks of inflation or fancies within a year? And let's talk about continuing to be annulled by law from 15.5% of pensions by untimely provisional regulations that particularly affect sailors? What about the fact that fishermen don't get to sit at the same table and enjoy the same pension rights as other employees? It's not, as a minister makes it sound, about who's most aggressive in the interests of interest. It's simply about listening to the people they don't like.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u74	A respectable president. The main point of the bill is to balance the pension rights of an Icelandic labour market. That's why I think it's a very wrong thing to talk about it and give it a total score that it doesn't get in the way of the employee, that's a completely different approach. Let's just talk about it, and I'm not afraid to discuss that there are a lot of different opinions about what I was referring to in my background, whether it's worth adjusting the beginning of right work from 16 to 18 years. And who is making it all seem to be something special for employers? That is not the purpose of the change but the purpose of harmony. Of course, it also tolerates the idea of wondering how often to calculate an indexing number, but I actually think that a little bit of the choice of words as good as good. A senator here used it to be stuck in an old inflation time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u75	Mr. President. It's clear to me that there's a lot of concern among older people over this bill, especially about 6. It is. You can see it from the news even. In the morning, the labor movement is concerned, as is the increase in the age of 16 for 18 and then on the case of sailors. But I'd like to ask the highest. Minister for 6. In particular, the fact that prices are not calculated monthly but each year, that there is no explanation in the bill of what is the basis and purpose of this change, and there is no paper on how to influence funds, influence on financial status of funds, or because of financial funds. So I'm asking for the highest explanation. Minister of these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u76	A respectable president. As the moisture in the bill itself is traceable, Faced with the social security system, and believe that this modified project could greatly reduce the government's claims for reimbursement. But just so it's very clear: this is not the main point of this matter. I think they're getting stuck in technical exports. The main element of this matter is a milestone, a historic milestone in the Icelandic labour market, an equation of pension rights between markets. I'm not going to stand here in a long phrase about these technical exports. These are the details of the case that are completely critical and that no one really touches me by pointing out that this is acceptable. It's just fine to take a look at this and roll up all the sides.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u77	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. But I'm sorry that he uses the word "dictionary" when he is being asked in a subject related to this bill. Obviously, Madam President, this is a large part of the work being done on a contract made between the labour market partners. But there are only a number of factors in this bill that call for an opinion. I notice that the highest. A minister does not trust to explain the uncuttied change in the provision of the insurance policy at least Then 1997, 2nd. 14th par. He can't explain it. It's something that matters to people. And we see that inflation as we have recently experienced, there would be a problem with older people, pensioners, at least This year. It's an intolerable uncertainty for these people.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u78	A respectable president. Yes, I used this wording, in a phrase. Then I was just referring to the fact that I wasn't going to give a lot of talks and answers today to enter this matter. I don't think that's how I see it. A senator is in a lot of speech in himself. This perspective on the change in index reflects the concern people have of inflation, and it is understandable that the older generation of the country, who had to deal with severe inflation times, should be concerned about this. I understand that very well. I have often suggested that in my youth, inflation was never less than 20%. Just since I went to nursery school and until I went to college, inflation was always 20% and more - always. But those times have passed away now. We have far greater merit levels, and if we succeed in maintaining that condition, this point is not as big as man wants to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u79	Madam President. I agree with the highest. The secretary of finance that this bill in itself is a great news, in which it is being tried to coordinate it after years and even decades. So I agree with it with the highest. Ministers that this matter is of great importance. Of course, it is a fruit of conversation and probably a struggle in a labour market where men have been trying to negotiate, and then the General involved. That is why I feel a little strange that it seems that in this bill, laws in themselves may appear minor in comparison with the large context. So I want to ask the highest. A minister whether it was not a mistake, let's put in these principles that now seem to cause differences and letters from the labor movement, for example.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u80	A respectable president. I notice that some place great emphasis on these two points, the right focus time, from 18 or 16 years ago, and the other for an update based on indicators and the development of prices in the country. These are not factors, however, that go against other people's opinions in this matter. Other stakeholders in this case have strong opinions on all other matters that are much larger in my mind. I don't know if they've noticed that there's a policy between ASI and SA for having been negotiating these matters in the way they did. I noticed nothing better than that Vilhjálmur Birgisson and Ragnar Þór Ingólfsson announced it on behalf of the Ak Arane's labor union and the VR expected, because they want it all to go into the special tax, the additional pension. The civil law is very against all of this because it seems that they were pressured to start offering some special property they didn't expect and had never agreed on. [[The president calls.]] These are much larger than the two items being brought up here, and these are complex things, and it's hard to get to the bottom of this so everybody's happy. That was my main subject in the entropy talk here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u81	Madam President. Yes, it can be difficult to do so in this world. I believe that the council should take its place in order to conduct legal procedures and that it is often appropriate to listen to stakeholders and not let them tell the council what to do. On the other hand, it is a very big, big case and many opinions. It may be the burden, which I'm not going to put on the shoulders of the present supreme. Secretary of finance, overimprovement to interest stakeholders, in their relations with the State, that they follow perfectly. I think it's a mistake because, of course, it's the council, taking into consideration comments, which are supposed to be the law. Of course, it can be risky if an organization, even if it is a very influential and large organization, feels that it has mastery over the council. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. Minister hears that I have not exactly a question but meditation on this occasion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u82	A respectable president. I just have to admit that I really like these thoughts. Senator. That is exactly why we do not let ourselves be told what to do. But we support the workforce's plans to balance the pension rights between markets. It was a highly respectable attempt to do so, in the case of the bridal cycle, by raising the employer's contribution and we just have a position right now where, as I explained in my case, most people are paying this share of the payer's salary ratio. However, we have the situation at the same time that has not been fully satisfied with how this equation is achieved and while it is not fully understood by legislation, there are others who are very conflicting. In fact, by doing nothing, even though they rejected the bill and did not change the law, we too would be having many disagreements. This situation cannot be resolved so that everyone will be happy if anyone has thought it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u83	A respectable president. V.E.G. Secretary of finance said it was a very complex matter. All the prostitutes in this case have come from him. He's got this whole thing mixed up. It's so remarkable that it's very simple and comfortable and easily soluble, just here and now, everyone in harmony: 3.5% will be on top of the additional special property, and each one will be able to determine where it goes and raise it. Done. Why don't we stop picking up this thing out of 16◯18 years old kids and away with insurance regulations, and then we'll get our sailors. Then we've solved the case, everybody settles. But if we are going to follow the path at its highest. The secretary of finance here is going to be incontrovertious, and the labor movement will never accept this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u84	A respectable president. There may be two things that I would especially like to pause in this talk. It's the opposite. A senator suggests that it will be decided, without any agreement, that groups in the community outside of collective agreements should be the decision of the General on the permafrost of the pension rights -- and everyone will agree with that, says why. Senator. I say, it's not like that. In the context of this discussion, it has just been said very strongly that the European Union of industry and the United States can on behalf of a third party who is not to be part of the meeting, make a decision about this subject, and we are preventing it from being subject to human agreements. And then, of course, it's like any other joke if it was. A senator really thinks that if all of this went into additional pensions, it would be okay. In fact, I think it's a very personal idea just fine. I wouldn't mind. That was the first idea of a business organization. ASI did not want it, however, and she has worked many years to prevent it from being that way. Right away. So a senator can get this out, or maybe just later today, he may get another e - mail from ASI because it's going to be called on him that ASI's never going to let that happen. A senator thought that general agreements could succeed here in the Hall of Congress and elsewhere in society.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u85	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for the answers. I think it's discovered that it's just a big misunderstanding between the Secretary of finance, the labor movement and the Association of Business Affairs. I think these people just need to sit down and negotiate. If the secretary of finance agrees that this goes into the special property of the additional pension fund, I am sure that the labor movement agrees completely with that, at least. a lot of it. That's all I can imagine. I may not agree entirely that the employment organization would agree with this because it seems like it should be inserted into a special savings system and the pension fund should take care of it. This is not acceptable because the pension fund is in control of the employment community. Although the labor movement is allowed to float, it is the organization that controls it, and they want it. I don't think so, and I know there are other people who don't like it, that this business organization is running into a market with this savings.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u86	A respectable president. As I'm saying, it's not such a bad idea that this 3.5% is only in the extra pension system. However, this is not the suggestion and is being made to make that phenomenon a special property, which has become an independent debate in the labor movement, and I return to what I told about some published policy in that subject. But then there is the public market. A senator does not seem to realize that he will not approve of the suggestion either. This is not to say that there are only a few people in the public market who would have disagreements. No, the public budget prefers that the new market structure is like the public market, that's what they like most. If the public budget has comments on the special property, they will have further comments on the existence of additional pensions of 3.5% that can be enjoyed in the way we know about them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u87	A respectable president. As mentioned earlier, we are dealing with a bill for a law on changing various laws because of increases in minimum pension costs and regulations about specific property. As we have seen in the media and elsewhere, the labor movement is not satisfied with what is going on here. To help us understand only what is really going on, I, by permission of the President, will read what Vilhjálmur Birgisson of Ak Arane wrote on the homepage of the labor movement there: I don't know. I don't know. It's amazing work. It's about a change in a pension fund. On Thursday, it came as a thunder from a clear air bill about changing the law on the pension fund. This bill suggests that raising legalization of minimum money to the pension fund from 12% to 15.5%. The bill also holds that the benefits of the EU will flow into your insurance, but the payers have the authority to place 3.5% of the 15.5% of the so-called special property, which they need to contact the relevant pension fund. It is also stated in the bill that remuneration funds should not be started at the age of 16, but, rather, at the age of 18. Chairman asks: Should the pay of those between 16 and 18 years of age be raised by 11.5%, or should employers profit from this change of non-employable pay of 11.5% for 2 years? This means saving up to nearly 800 million dollars a year. Imagine, they're supposed to take 800 million of the young people and move them to the pros. It's no problem to postpone a pension fund from 16 years to 18 years, but leave these 800 million young people in either the form of an 11.5% raise or a trust fund. Not a sliding bill like that to 800 million young people a year! - says the labor leader. Go on, with President's permission: There is something else that is quite amazing in this bill, but, as a pensioner knows, the pension will be rewarded, as it were, and will change according to the Habitat consumption index, and will present these changes every month in the current law. However, the bill insists that the rise in the pension of remuneration is only once a year. So pensioners don't get benefits on top of monthly prices at this time. This means that a person who is 67 years old and who has $350,000 in pension will be rewarded for less than 70 thousand a year in terms of 4% inflation. From 67 years of age on to 83 years of age, the pensioner would have taken just over $2 million! Don't bring in a bill as a shoddy of pensioners 2 million of their pensions with these changes over a 16-year period of pension. If this change went through, it would be interesting to know the savings of the pension fund. How unsettled it is for billions of people! Yes, it's no problem to turn the law into this direction for pensioners but to do it on the house's prices, no, it's out of the question for this government. It's no big deal to cover the mortgage debt every month, but it's time the pensioners get paid on top of the cost of each month. This is not the only thing that's completely fucked up in this bill, because it's guaranteed that, for example. seamen with 12% peaks in the pension fund do not reach 15.5%, then the law should be excluded. Yes, governments want to treat their workers well, and they do not impose any further spells on them. There has long been a struggle for more payers to determine where and how they employ their pension. WE HAVE fought to increase the right to place their pension in a so - called free special property, but today the minimum price is 12%, most of which are paying 15.5% in pay. WE HAVE fought for the benefit of payers themselves, where they set 3.5% of the minimum paid by law today. The choice should be made whether it puts it in your insurance or free special property. No, it can't, it's all to the pension fund, and then it's to legalize and complicate the pension system further through some additional duplicating special property. The tragedy of this is that no consultation was made with the unions that have a legal interest in negotiating the purchases and terms of their members. But pension rights are clearly part of the union agreements, and that is in their power, according to all existing laws. The thing is, VLA was a long way along with Elkem Iceland in the Grundartans to allow 12% of the 15.5% of the industry to go to the insurance policy and employees could choose to reimburse 3.5% if they wanted to. The company of industry and the President of ASI say no, it's not you guys who are involved in negotiating pensions, they're in custody of SA and ASI. But in the e-mail, the President of ASI said to the chairman the other day: The Pension Fund is on a bargain between the Icelandic Association and the National Association, but the Convention is not for each trade union for itself as it has long become clear. Yes, the unions just have nothing to do with it or their members despite all the laws. This is an enormous interest for the pay force, so the company has entrusted WLA's attorney with the policy of ASI and the firm of employment that says that the union's contracts do not cover deposit agreements. I'm telling you, that's what I'm talking about. The head of VLA shall be pleased to acknowledge that this unsatisfactory delinquency by the pension system on the side of ASI is completely incomprehensible. The Chairman wants to consult the unions that have legal interest in these matters and that minimum tax will remain 12% but payers will be authorized to withdraw the additional 3.5% in free possession. WEB reject that SA and ASI can take over the company's legal interests in order to ensure that the pension rights of members of the VUDA society and on that basis these stakes will be subject to social services. The Chairman would like to ask you: Would you like to have 3.5% of 15.5% of your own free will? It is my opinion that employees must speak up to prevent a small gang from deciding and dictated the right to pay for where and how they want their pensions to be made. So many were words, and I take my heart into them. We need to realize that the pension fund is legalized, property-saving savings. This is a reward, and it sucks to think that for decades the pay for workers has been misused. We're here to learn from experience, but there seems to be no trace of learning experience in this government from the collapse. It seems to have lost hundreds of billions of lives. How can it be held for decades that employers who have no right to grovel about this money or have power over money in pensions, are running around with this money on the market? We're talking about 6,000 billion in the pension system. We're talking about an increase in the pension system up to 100 billion dollars. in a month and in this context, tax revenues that can be lost, tax returns lost. No one knows how much it's calculated today, but I'm sure there's 500 billion losses in the collapse of taxes, and we're not going to learn from that experience. These are huge financial resources, and a group of people have provided a bill about taxing money from pension funds. What should we do with our money? The operation could immediately deliver us a 70,480 billion dollars. Of course, we should use them for the people who have and have earned them, make sure to get the system into the song that was when we picked up local payment at the time, and everyone seems to have forgotten. When tax markets were applied, taxes from the lowest wage or pensions were not paid social insurance, and they were leftovers, more change in pension money from a pension fund. There's no one today who gets rid of the tax. The character discount has not been paid. The tremendous increase in taxes that have been put on those in the lowest pensions and pay today is an increase of 30,000 to 600,000. in the lowest pension fund, it's just a clean and clear rise. If we were also to calculate correctly, if we were to calculate the character discount, and if we were to take what happened, we would not be paying anyone in Iceland under 300,000 bucks. tax and inadequacy. But there may be some dream in a can that is remote unless there are some huge changes at the council, unfortunately. We can see that on this bill, at the highest level. A financial minister has made an amazing complicated task, even though it is basically the simplest case that could be placed before the council. He could bring the bill into complete agreement with everything and everyone, but no, he has to sneak in these amazing scavengers to take away the $166 -18 year - olds of pension. How can you even think of that? It may even be possible to think about it, but performing it is a completely incomprehensible phenomenon. How in the world can you think of cutting out the dierent funds to change the price of consumer science, to change it on top of all the other impairments that are in the system? We have to figure that out, for example. When we're talking about pension, that 12% who'll be in there, we're talking about a pension worth of 45%. First, the taxes and then the 45% fell. In a number of cases, when this is also a chain reaction, we are talking about a tax system up to a rate of up to 8,990%. No one can think of putting that kind of tax on, but it can be done by hookways, and making it really complicated. The secretary of finance has done, as the government after the government has done with the social security and pension pay. But like I say, we should get together and simplify this. It's not complicated, as I said, we can only put in 3.5% of the additional pension savings, each paying man can decide what to do with it, where he puts it, whether he puts it in a safe investment or a venture investment. But out with the rest of the bill, and I think most people can be happy, unless, of course, professional organizations because they'll never accept, except that they'll get all this money, stay into the pension fund, and hold that they can use it. The enormous sum of money we are injecting into the pension fund has already begun, I believe, to harm us because they are actually buying in themselves. This isn't working. It doesn't work in our small economy to have all this money here, so they obviously want to take them abroad. That means currency, which means it takes on the public in terms of the demand for 3.5% interest in this process is causing the system to bite what should be least.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u88	Madam President. There will be no one's mind on the matter discussed here, i.e. change in various laws due to increases in minimum amount of waste money to the Pension Fund and Directives of specified specialities, including is proposed to change the law on the insurance policy of pension and the work of pension funds, the pension laws, which are so often referred to as frequent and no. 129/1997. There is no real sense that the core of this matter is that governments are supporting the development of collective agreements, as is attributed here, especially to 2.g. It identifies ASI's collective employment contracts and agreements in 2011 where people set out to bring together and equal rights for public and public markets, etc. Also discussed are the biographies mentioned from April 3, 2018. It shows that the legalization of 15.5% of the minimum currency paid for a pension fund is one of the stated government support to the agreement. It's all good and good. Then there are other important factors, including submission. The provision of special possession and of such. But that doesn't change, for there's a lot of concern about this bill. You can see from conversations that the older citizens'communities are very thoughtful about certain points in this bill. I specifically mention the point that has been discussed in this discussion, which is the change in pension prices paid by pension funds and has been in this way at least Since 1997, changes are made by the index of consumer prices. But now a suggestion is made that it will no longer be monthly but only once a year, on the basis of January 1, each year, according to inflation in the next year. Madam President. V.E.G. A minister minimized this point here and stressed the big lines involved in this bill, but it has to be discussed. It caught my attention at least that a minister could not say or answer a question about the motive or purpose of this change or what explanation is there that this change is not supported by any data on the impact of funds and the financial resources of the pension system, therefore impact on the state funds for the interaction of the pension system and the social security system. However, this was shown in the highest case. Minister that he thinks it's a small, small thing, so I'll allow myself to encourage the highest order. Minister, since he considers this to be so trivial, and since he cannot account for this matter, why is it proposed, to withdraw this law, Article 6. The bill we're discussing here is that the insurance on pension will be done only once a year, but not monthly at this time. It must be easy for the highest. A minister because he has already said in this discourse that he considers it a minor matter and could not answer the cause or purpose of the proposal made in Article 6. The bill has an explanation for this point, there is only one sentence in which the integration of the pension system and the social security system is referred to, by permission of the President: ...change of action can greatly reduce government insurance requirements for reimbursement due to lack of budgets of pension funds at the beginning of the year. Madam President. This is such a pathetic explanation that no wonder is offered such a pathetic explanation. First, the wording uses the process ◯ shaped, and this is to cover the fact that the change may include a failure, and most likely it will. Then there is the possibility that this change should help an insurance agency with a plan. Is this some point that can justify the putting of older people into complete uncertainty about their interests? The prices have become more and more stable than they have been for a long time, but early this year's time, as everyone knows, they are going to be under the law of this bill, including these 6. .. then, people will be completely vulnerable to such inflation, and they will be unmerited for a year. So there is good reason for concern. This bill causes uncertainty among the pensioners about financial and financial development, and the uncertainty must be eliminated immediately. Madam President. There are several factors to consider. Here at the beginning of the discussion was a little discussed with the company of the labour market, and it appears in the media, here I refer to a film for the Morning newspaper, which is carried out by Drífa Snædal, president of the National Association of Iceland, that the Common Association has made serious comments on a pension bill and that is not correct, according to President ASI, who is told in a report that it has been cooperated with ASI. This, of course, leads to the fact that it has been for a very long time, so the pension business has been in the custody of the labour market and the government have long chosen to have close contact with the labour market partners for the changes in the law on pensions. When it was finally successful to complete the task of establishing laws on the interest of the pension fund, the 1997 pension Act that I referred to earlier, it was especially due to the work of the labour market and its policies on the roads that were subsequently seen in the bill that became the law of No. 129/1997. There is reason to rejoice over what a minister described, his plans for what he called a green book that will discuss the future issues of pension or pension. There are many persistent questions that arise in this regard. He mentioned a few things. I'd like to add to the need to view the taxation of pensions that are now tax bills as if they were payable to a considerable degree, even though they are funded as a result of profits paid in the fund. There is reason to examine this point very carefully. The same is true of taxation of special property savings, which is also taxated as in remuneration, when a substantial proportion of the budget is introduced due to the yield of funds in the special property fund. I urge these points to be kept in mind when this green book is being attacked. I must finish my case by saying that this bill involves a lot of factors. It has been observed, as in this discussion and the media, that the Common Union is deeply concerned about the rise in pensional age from 16 to 18 years. There's an open question for sailors in particular. It's going to have to be a lot of research, except for the insurance business and the natural big lines of this bill usually. It is very important that the General Problem here be done. But I want to finish my speech by restating my admonition to the highest degree. Minister to eliminate the uncertainty that exists among older people because of 6. g., about disappearing from monthly pension insurance to annual. I would like to encourage the Minister to eliminate that uncertainty by extracting an article from the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u89	Madam President. Perhaps it is just beginning to say that it was right next to the highest level. Secretary of finance when he earlier said it was a very complicated matter. I just want to talk about how big and how complicated it is and why it is in many ways dangerous. But before I go there, I'd like to discuss some of the points involved in this particular bill because there's a big context in all of this. I'm going to start by mentioning pars. It is truly remarkable that people 16 and 17 years of age who are in the workforce are being removed from the pension system, basically. A letter written by the former German association of Iceland states by the permission of a president: a reduction in pension pay age from 16 years to 18 years is contrary to an ASI and SA's CREEP agreement. For this age difference, there is no reasonable evidence. I agree with this, but I think that it may even go a little further and say that doing this, in view of the fact that it is the objection of an employer who is mainly spared by this, that there is a 14% break for all persons 16 to 18 years old. It is, I think, very unfair and also very dangerous precedent because for this there is no argument. It's really just a means to make money to an employer. This may contribute a little to the application of people of this age in view of the lower employer's pay - related cost. But this is not a good way to contribute to a better life span. I think it's a bad example that it's worth condemning Comb 1. This bill. The second thing I wanted to come on is fixture of the ratio in 15.5%. Observers have seen that over the past few years the ratio has gone up and has gone up for decades. What's interesting is that it's not a coincidence, it's not unpredictable, and it needs to continue undiscovered. Thus, in 2017 the whole pension system was a total of 3,5114 billion. I chose this year because I had it on my hand, not for any other reason. Four years later, according to an article in the Morning Press, the pension system is at 5,818 billion, I think it was. This is equivalent to a 16% increase per year or an enlargement of the pension system or 576 billion dollars. every year. If you were to look at it that way, you could say: Okay, that means, considering the GDP of 2019 was 2,966 billion, that about 1 out of 6 dollars produced in our community ends up in the Pension Fund, i.e. 5 cents will be used for the public in today's country, one for investments that will have to produce considerable profits, and it will be used to pay for a lifetime. It is not only a coin that is now used in investments but also a coin that could be found elsewhere in the system. The increase in the system around 16% a year is pretty intense. True, this is not entirely linear. Rather, it grows into so - called empire growth. Therefore, it is important for the General, and at least for the Economic and Business Committee, to discuss just what it means to have a system that has a built - in empire growth in it. In fact, the pension system is far from the only system in Iceland that has built - in empire growth, even on a global scale, that has so many systems that have such built - in empire growth. It does not necessarily have to be bad, but it must be clear what it involves. At times, it is said that there is a minimum product of growth in the pension system. In fact, the pension fund has spoken of this as a anymore - to - be - a - day requirement. Okay, you can call it someone else because of me, but it's at least 3.5%. 3.5%, President, in 28 years, means double. The 5,818 billion in today's pension system will be 2050 in at least 10,000, 11,000, $12,000 billion. value at present, and there will be other factors, inflation, and other items that come in, and especially in the light of that, as shown in this bill, that there are insurance rates in pension savings. That's where we're talking about how the pension system in its nature has to take an ever larger part of Iceland's economy to itself. And yes, okay, it's not just that this money goes into some pit. They go out of the pension system in various investments, both within the country and outside, and in themselves are a very large and important part of Iceland's economy. But with this increase of 12% to 15.5%, it is actually said that one in every 7 cents in the country goes into a fund where people other than the country themselves and the paymen themselves and those who own this pension may be allowed to set aside these funds for investments here and there on the economy. That certainly is for good reason, but at some point you must ask yourself: " When is enough? The answer to that question depends on whether you look at this pension fund on the other side or on the payer's side. The pension system has to grow all the time. If there is no expansion in proportion to the nation's aging, population growth, and other factors, there is a phenomenon called an insurance bankruptcy that is a realistic possibility. It is realistic that there are very regular discussions that there are so many hundreds of billions of dollars missing in the pension system to make it work. In 2016, one of the first things that happened, the year I arrived at Congress, was that a considerable amount of money was put into the B-REC because there was an insurance bankruptcy in some sense, all the way in the future. Insurance failure is not in modern times. Rather, it is calculated from requirements that exist for the future. When you look at this on the other side, it is likely that any growth can, in effect, be justified. If you agree with that approach, we must agree that the economy will eventually go solely into serving the interests of the pension fund. I don't think it's good for anybody. So it's a good reason for us at a council, whether in a general or in a financial and commercial committee, that we take the discussion on how we can bring up the pension system. V.E.G. The secretary of finance spoke of it in his earlier speech that sustainability is an important objective, and I completely agree with that. But self-sustaining and endless empire growth isn't something that works together. You can't have self-sustaining and fission, at least not for long. This is something we need to talk about, and we need to find some way to achieve all the insurance targets, all the system's pension goals, without relying on always eating bigger parts of the cake. There is actually one other way to fix this, i.e. That the economy will grow faster than the need for pension. It is possible to examine how we could do so. But it's more of a business committee thing and maybe a whole-scale economy. But look at this from the other side, from the view of the hired man. Until a few years ago, the ratio was 12%. True, this comes from the counterpayer. At any rate, this number is always increasing, and at some point it reduces the possibility of remuneration by other dressers, e.g. in its usual salary. It must also be a problem, no matter which side you watch, the pension system has been growing and growing since its birth. A few years ago, I made a conquistador proposal, which I should probably add again to remind me of, which went out to see if there was any improvement in changing the pension fund from a collection system that it is today over a flow system to some extent. There is one way to reduce this pressure. There's absolutely reason not to do it and I've heard them argue and all right with it, but it needs to be examined much more closely than I can do about making some sort of suggestion. They have to do it as soon as possible because the system keeps growing while we're discussing it. To say this, because time is short, I understand why this bill is submitted. I'm not sure I agree with everything that it shows. There are many things that can be good in this, and both the activities of the industry and the United States have good points in their demand for it. But if we are to maintain a sustainable outlook for the future, we need to make sure that this system works out. That means that we should all start talking about how we can stop doing this kind of feedback on the system, as in this case. Then there will be a lot of discussions in the Economic and Business Committee on exactly which of the proposals in this bill are positive as a temporary solution, positive in general and negative. Actually, it was a nice speech before then. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson, since he considered what wasn't positive in this, and I think it's a pretty good thing for a financial and business committee to do with this. But in any case, we need to rethink this, and I think we have to.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u90	Madam President. I must admit that it only inspires me when talking about the growth of power and other such factors from the Allegorium, I'd like to have a little conversation with a man. A member of the council following his interesting thoughts. There are many questions about the pension system. So I grab down a few places in it like that. The senator turned aside, when one of these three.5% was the number of exposés, i.e. that the funds are made up in terms of insurance, property, and debt, according to that number. It is to the point that the time of property is much shorter than that of commitment. The commitments extend decades into the future. This is a very important subject, and there are natural insurance mathematicians to solve it. I would also like to mention, as a result of a discussion on the development and expansion of the system, that the funds are already a growing Icelandic economy in the sense that the vast resources they have to put into business in investments - there is not an inexplicable advantage on such investments here. A natural view of the risk distribution calls for a large contribution to foreign investments. 36 st. The law is about the investments of the pension fund. [[The president calls.]] It was originally thought of as the greatest risk the pension fund was in the face of foreign investments. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But now there is a different view, and people have come to realize that the most important risk factors are domestic investments. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I remind you of the Norwegian oil reserve all set up.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u91	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen on the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u92	Madam President. That's an interesting question, that's right. The speech I could have held would have been that the investment capacity of the pension system is following an incredibly high power over the Icelandic economy. It would be a great talk, because if we look at the numbers in the Morning article, our pension system has grown to about 1,000 billion dollars. in the past 18 months. Of these, the number of foreign property grew by 558,4 billion, but the domestic property grew by some 449 billion. This is interesting in view of the fact that there are 449 billion of the value generated in the Icelandic economy in the past 18 months that will not really go to the public until one day late and later, some decades later, as well. A senator talked about it. So I find it interesting that in this large party, and remembering that GDP 2019 was, as I mentioned earlier, 2,96 billion dollars, that the pension system is really like twice Icelandic gross domestic product. This means that if the pension fund decides to influence here and where, perhaps, they have limited capacity because the economy is rich, they can begin to choose who are the winners of the Icelandic community and who are lost. It's power. It is real power, and it can be discussed especially. Still, I wanted to stress the systematic risks of having the power built in.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u93	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer or, in fact, his additional thoughts here. If I catch the ball again from the wind. A senator, then, is that the need for the pension fund for investing abroad is because there are not too many investment options available here - unless, of course, state and rural societies would attack the investment campaign that you've been trying to speak for, the internalisation of the country, which would be to the point where there would be a bond that would fall in the stock of the pensions and serve their interests. While the pension fund cannot afford practical investments in this country, they have to leave the country. But it is such sums of money that it puts considerable pressure on the crown's gangs, so it all hangs. Hv. A senator mentioned the danger that the funds would achieve financial success in Icelandic society. He spoke of authority over the Icelandic economy. It reviews the dream or ideals of an old peer who was Olof Palme, Sweden. It's natural to be taught a certain calculism, and sometimes you'll think of it, that you can't have it coming to realize that there's going to be some sort of treasure-sit through the pension fund. I'd also like to step in on that as well. A senator mentioned, i.e. It is a collection and, on the one hand, through a flow. The people who set up the pension fund were very forward men on both sides, very highly regarded men, to form in the Allied Union. They decided that this would be a collection, and so far it has proved to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u94	Madam President. Yes, it can be said that a treasure - collection system was almost certainly the right decision at the time. Whether it is the right decision to maintain it now rather than to take part in a flow is a question that may not turn to pension, one that can ensure that people receive the same amount of pension in each system. The question is, how much of the investment potential of the Icelandic economy is actually tied up in the pension system at any given time. Now we live so well that there are many pension funds, so there may not be a great danger of getting their authority out or out of the way. Still, it is true. A senator talks about, puts pressure on the crown, and puts pressure on investment options. This, for example, makes it possible. Foreign investors may be less interested in developing an Icelandic economy with their own money. And, besides, when this is so combined with the current and last governments' policy to always run down government debt to nothing - bear in mind that government debt is private savings - the pressure will actually be even greater on the factors of the economy that can make money for some kind of money. This system is complicated. I think it's the red strand in all this discussion. Thank you. A senator for having this conversation with me, because this system is grossly complicated and usually not for the reasons you would expect at the outset, but mostly because of the complex interaction that occurs when a system that is large, this vast, is in harmony with such a small economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u95	Madam President. I have sat and listened to this discussion with interest, I have sat in the hall and listened. It's been interesting, and I hear everything that this bill is going to a good place where there's a why. The General Economic and Business Committee, and I expect to benefit from the work that will be there. I come up here primarily to make a decision in the matter of various senators that there is reason to worry that this has not been the case with the employee organisation, ASI, which would have had to be. In fact, it's not a consultation, it's an interview. It's a compensatory body, as is indicated in a letter sent to the Parliament today by the President of the United States of America, Drífa Snædal, whom I come up here to agree, and then I want to address the issues presented in that letter. That's right. That's what happened before. paritaprevir The Ólafur Ísleifsson of Issuas, that there were prominent men who established this treasure - money system and the way it was established. What may not have been the least significant about this was the rich and extensive consultation that was made on the part of the government and the retailing organization and the team of professionals. It seems to me that now, unfortunately, it is a broken magazine in that such consultations have not taken place. It is not possible to provide Iceland's All-American Association, such as interest groups, lobsters, or anything like it, but it is the company of remuneration people who own this pension. By permission of the President's permission, Mt. Drífa Snædal Valley wrote: ▪ From a report, it can be understood that full consultation has been made with the labor movement, but it is a serious matter to insist on such things when there is another trial. In this way, the secretary of finance breaks a magazine in history by offering suggestions for changes in the pension system without speaking to a representative of the workers, but it makes such an impression. This is a new strategy in dealing with the government's representatives, the government's representatives with the remuneration organization. This case is related to the 2019, but it appears that the trip was used to slip in a number of things that had not been discussed. Conspiracy. It's mostly three things ASI protests strongly and I want to read it here, by permission of a president: The first to mention the rise in a pension payment age from 16 years to 18 years, which runs contrary to the ASI and SA Pension Treaty. For this age difference, there is no solid evidence. When the bill was submitted to the General Assembly, these plans were first caught in the labor movement. A lot of what? Congress officials have just wondered about this change. Similarly, Brotherly Drífa, and many senators have wondered: The second step is to change the cost of pensions so that they will be calculated each year instead of monthly. This change may be modest, but it may affect people's pension rights that they fail to accept correction because of inflation. The bill leaves no doubt whether this would be corrected afterwards or not. Hv. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Isafasunson was just aside from the anxieties that older citizens have raised about these plans, rightly. It was on the top. The secretary of finance to understand earlier that there was no need to make such a big difference, since inflation was a part of the past. It would have been something that would have been prevalent in his youth but that would have been long ago. Well, God say good things, and hopefully it's the highest. A minister was right in that regard. But I'm only a little older than I am. Minister and I know this ghost, just as I think other senators of the same age as I am, and I'm not sure that we've quite seen the last of that ghost. The third thing that the National Association of Iceland severely protests is, by permission of Presidents: Third, laws from 15.5% of pension produce by untimely provisional regulations. This comes about the pension of sailors, who are still at odds with them and who are contributioning to their pension fund only 12%. In view of the fact that there is a proper time limit for the provisional principle, such as it is normal, however, it is possible for sailors and their negotiaters to complete a collective agreement where fishermen enjoy the same pension rights as other employees. A respectable president. I wanted to come up first and foremost to uphold the views expressed in the letter of the European Union of Iceland and agree with them. I expect the views expressed in the letter of the Federal Republic of America to have a rich sound foundation. The Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u96	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for his fine speech. I also have to confess that this is not a personal answer, but what might be called equivalent because I share concerns with others. A senator tore up here. Let me first mention the question of consultation. Remember, it was based on collective agreements in May 1969 that the labour market members actually established the pension system. The awards Convention was signed on May 19, 1969. I remember 1969 very well. A senator will undoubtedly do so. Unless the government became a responsible member of these agreements led by President Bjarni, the late son of Benediktsson. The main point of this agreement with the labour market at the time, in which it was not really a matter of negotiating additional pay because we were then in a serious economic downturn, was that the members of the Iceland's Public Association had the right and duty to be members of a pension fund. In 1974 this point was established and then expanded in 1980, so everyone is to be in a pension fund and is in a pension fund from that time. I must admit that I am very thinking about the statements of the Directorates of the Common Union, so I specifically refer to the President of the Common Union, of the lack of consultation. It objects to what is said in a paper with the bill that has been consulted by the UN because until now the governments have considered it to be the most successful, we may have put it this way, to agree on the pension business to the labour market and you wonder whether this is a turning point, especially in view of the Supreme Court's recommendations. Minister before today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u97	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator of this little time of history. Add this: Since Prime Minister Bjarni Benediktsson was called, names like Þ. The Gíslason, Hannibal Valdimarsson, and Eðvarð Sigurðsson are also to be mentioned by random names. The important thing is that during this period of trouble in Icelandic society, employers and labor unions banded together, and the government was able to bring these forces together, to build trust and happiness in not betraying that trust. In the above letter, the president of the Allied Union is somewhat harsh. She's pretty harsh. She says, by permission of a president: However, in the present bill, there has been another change that the labor movement has not referred to and affected the public pension rights and thus the ideal workers. Those are quite harsh words from the President of the United States of America, and I think the monopoly is at the moment. The Economic and Business Committee takes these words very seriously and try to correct them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u98	Madam President. It cannot be avoided that this bill will be fixed in the activities of the General Assembly. There's no other way. It's completely impossible, and if the highest. The minister of finance is not going to be able to accept the encouragement I have allowed me to appeal to him, to drag 6. Back again, it must be a subject of whatever. The Economic and Business Committee and then the Total Generals were to avoid Article 6. the law is made because it creates a very special uncertainty for people who receive money from the pension fund. That's what people have lived through, at least from 1997, these payments were revised monthly in view of inflation development. It's time to go to the top. Minister with a bill he can't even explain. He cannot even explain why and what is the purpose of the change, and he cannot answer why it does not have a series of articles on how it affects the funds and financial resources of the pension fund and what it is responsible for. To indicate that there are some new times, that there is no inflation and something like this - we've just seen things in our daily lives called inflation or inflation or inflation or inflation or what they are now, this 4% early this year. Of course, this is a significant amount of money, and for people who are living under a crisis, it is very difficult not to gain it until a year has passed and we have not come out of inflation. I'm going to let myself tell the World Congress that there's still a risk that there's more inflation here and I won't talk about it if there's a pack. A senator could make it to the government, I'd like to say. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u99	A respectable president. Yeah, it was getting way too big and mutually mutual. A senator so that, in my opinion, he would have to end it with an unnecessary pill to the party for which I am a senator and has always stressed responsible economic management and responsible economy. But it is true that we have not come to the point of inflation. It seems sometimes that economists and those using economic machines view inflation as a paper number. This is the life of people. This is the life and health of people, the life of the houses of the land. This is the life of the old people, and this is the lives of the families, and it can make a difference. For example, in many homes, small inflation rates are crucial to the success of many families and to whether they are able to skim their household over the next month's encounters. So here we are playing a very dangerous game in my opinion that can have unexpected consequences for the general population in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u100	Madam President. I want here at 1st. leaving a few things to think about, especially before reason. A financial and business committee, on the bill available here. It's been a long career, and looking at some of the reviews that are presented in consultations since the case went in, I think it was in July 2018, if I remember correctly, I've tried to read it from the fact that there's still a point to draw attention to and encourage the committee to examine specifically, and I'd like to mention some of them. In accordance with ASI and the enterprise of the industry since June 15, 2016, further implementation of the implementation of the sector's sector was agreed on by the provision of funds to account for up to 3.5% of the minimum legal fee in the terms of the special property listed in this bill. A review of the General Penitentiary Fund, says, by permission of the President: ▪ It would have been more desirable to give yourself more time - with reference to the situation as it was then - to specify the needs of people and to offer suggestions that would take into account the individual's needs. If a change in the system is desirable, changes are aimed at simplifying the system and rights, rather than complicateing it, as is suggested. I think this is a point that would be preferable to keep in mind the progress of the situation on the Economic and Business Committee, i.e. looking for ways to simplify the system rather than complicate it. And so general, I think we should try to protect the freedom of the individuals to make room for these additional provisions. As per the Icelandic Penitentiary, which says, by permission of presidents, more people are suing the subject of simplicity: ▪ This great distinction between the specified special property and the special property of the additional tax will cause unnecessary waste management of the pension system to become unnecessary. It is reasonable that cashmates can reserve 3.5% of minimum cost in additional pensions. In this way, participants of this special property can bring about the same ways of producing the same fruitage and without separating and unnecessary misunderstandings. I just want to keep it in place in this context and to stress that it makes sense that there is the person who has the most freedom, the best choice to choose the way he or she likes best. In itself, I have not realized how that goal will be achieved by the implementation of the specified special property, rather than by the fact that the additional savings will flow into the special property as it is designed for today. With reference to the simplified system, it is proper to mention the information of the SCP in the consultation guide that says, with the permission of the president: With the proposed change to the law No. 129/1997 is still involved with the pension system that many people already feel is complicated enough, especially the loss of TR pensions because of pensions from life insurance institutions. In recent years, lawgivers have made changes in social security laws, No. 100/2007, to the simple pension plant, but with this bill, the complex level is increased again. All of this is at the same well. There's a misbehavior's concern that the system is being stepped up to an unnecessary level. Today, there is a minimum legal fee for the Pension Fund 12% of the tax market and a 15.5% rise in it. Pension funds are intended to provide minimum insurance protection of 56% of the monthly debt, which is reported to the average paid for 40 years. Normally, it is 1.4% a year. The bill suggests that minimum insurance protection goes to 1.8% per year or 72% per 40 years. If the cashier has 3.5% in the specified holding, minimum insurance protection will be reduced to 1.4% per year, or 56% at the current 40-year pay time. Regarding this, the review of the General Pension Fund, by permission of the president, says: ◯, The Abduction showed the opinion that there is no need to increase the minimum insurance protection and, in fact, legalizing the minimum tax rate from 12% of pay to 15.5%. In fact, this increase in minimum insurance protection is that I don't seem to have much evidence in the bill, but in this context, it is also interesting that in the review of the Bridge of Pension on the consultation mystery, it is responsible for a 3.5% fruit policy. Some have called it a modern - day requirement, but let's use a fruit target, perhaps that is what is commonly used in the context of the discussion here and in most places. Commenting on the Bridge Penitentiary Fund, 3.5% of the fruit target and warned against raising minimum insurance protection without viewing the system as a whole. It says, by permission of the president: The proposal for a change in increases to 1.8% per year in minimum insurance protection to be provided by the pension fund should include the calculation of the insurance mathematician of the fund and the potential review of his rights tablets. The proposal seems to be based on the unchanged regulations of Regulation No. 391/1998, with regard to the demand for pension funds, has been greatly discussed with regard to the question of fruitage requirements, and it is not practical or realistic to count in terms of the 3.5% production of possessions for the future. The Management Board of Pension Fund feels that the criteria for minimum insurance protection are considered in a larger context. In this context, as some have done in the past in the discussion, I would like to celebrate what is said here and at least in the debate of history. Secretary of finance, I don't remember whether it's specifically mentioned in the bill, about planned work to start green bookwork. Of course, it must be especially true of this 3.5% actual interest in the pension system. I have come close to it that there must be something culminating in it if it is thought that the home of the country and the business are under a much higher reality requirement than the world's activities around us, the Western nations that we compare with. It can't be self-sustained for long periods of time. It has an impact in many parts of the economy that the pressure, or foundation, is placed under the conditions of growth here that we are certainly at home and hopefully getting out, and there are indications that it is working. Similarly, the green bookwork must consider whether the current age target is sustainable in length, just if we watch the nation's biography and so forth. I reiterate that I am glad that this work will be started, and I'm sure you could argue that it would have been good if she had started better, but there's a plan to be celebrated. In addition, I would like to mention a few things that may be a reason to be specifically examined by the Economic and Business Committee. There is, of course, a point that has been discussed regularly in the discussion today that focuses on the argument that paid people should not start paying in the pension fund until the age of 18, which is 16 years today. The question is, what then? How does this affect the salary of the large group of people in this age range that is more efficient in the workplace? Have these thoughts been completely over? It is a point that has been mentioned several times today and faces the seamen's choice. When the agreement is made in June 2016, it is not yet the situation that has become a reality that has to face the seamen's bargains. There's been no contract between builders and sailors, if I remember correctly, it was at one time in the middle of the 2019 C.E. that earlier treaties had come to an end. I wondered, " Is there any reason to put in some layer of sunset rules based on what is stated in the bill that it does not include those who do not themselves, between employees and employers, who agree that the benefits are increased by 3.5%? ' Then there may be a misreading, but I think it's just a seamen talking about it. I'm just saying, if there's any song on a sunset dress that would come in, so that won't happen, because now it's the goal of equalizing the pension rights between systems, one group out there in such a long time. There's been a little debate about 6. ..... that the pension isn't rewarded with the monthly price, it's once a year. Perhaps I would like to mention in another context the argument of the matter, as the question of Article 6. In the bill, by permission of the President: ▪ Is in that relationship even Viewing the interaction of the pension system and the social security system on payment of pensions but changing projects can greatly reduce government insurance requirements for reimbursement because of lack of budgetary payments at the beginning of the year. Should we not, then, be in a technical age to have some other means to reduce or estimate more accurately? Of course, finding a solution would be on the shoulders of the National Insurance Agency. But should we not have some more accurate ways to evaluate it than is today and appear to be a special support for going over to value once a year? Should not the system have a more precise estimate, so that these annual problems, on reimbursement, are not providing the discomfort that comes with them? Toward the end of my talk, I want to remember to look into ways to simplify the system rather than complicate it, that the freedom of the individuals will be the most. I'm glad we're working on balance rights, that's what I think is an important goal. We know from the past much differences in the pension rights of public employees and staff in the private sector, so you're just taking a very wide line on that subject. A good goal is positive if you are working toward that goal. I welcome the green book work that lies ahead but repeat: Assure freedom of choice for individuals, I try to simplify the system rather than complicate it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u101	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize the law on the contracts of the General Assembly and the Senate costs, No. 88/1995, with subsequent changes. Transporters with me have a problem. Councilmen of the Presidency Committee, andluminaries of the Presidency Committee, Gudjon, the son of Zün, Brabbur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Willum Þór Thor Brjánsson Þórsson, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, the Bryndís of Bordidi Haraldsdóttir, Steindór Valdimarsson, and Sæland, the son of Garan. The bill is moved in an effort to restrict the right of members of Congress to reimburse travel costs or support the travel cost of members of the Parliament for the promotion of the General election, i.e. at the finish line, and in a gross way, when the real campaign is over. Of the Conventional Marriage Act, which leads to the nature of the case, the Court of the Generals for travel costs is based on the terms of the term or the time of the member of the Parliament at the General Assembly. Of course, the rationale for limiting the rules for the rights of a senator seeking re-election in the General election at the time of the election, is primarily the ones behind it, that by ensuring more equality with members of the council as candidates who seek re-election and other candidates, new members of Parliament - and more equal with new bids or new political organizations and established groups that play on the council in the campaign. To me, this actually turns to both individuals as such, agents who are fighting a campaign, as well as in a sense to the political organizations involved. By itself, if we agree that there may be a difference of circumstances in the situation of seated senators and others moving around in the campaign, we are in effect saying that there is a difference of circumstances between volunteers, different political movements. It'll lead to it on its own. Of course, the radicals and many members of the council that have been given support from the State to run their work during the scheduled period are in considerable different and stronger positions in many ways, I think we must face the issue, rather than new offers that test our success in elections. It must be a goal to change the changing person to do at least nothing to add to this situation and to ensure more equality between parties. Therefore, the right to reimburse travel costs, as per regulations of 1 and 2 mg. 7. The law says fall on a set time mark, i.e. Six weeks before Christmas Day. Here we see that it is the gathering time, the time between the breach and the vote. It's like this in a rough, high point, self-rearing in the campaign, the last four, six weeks. It is a simple, clear rule and a convenient one. The result, then, had to be a clean route for these materials, to draw a specific time point. As the bill shows, certain divulges are also taken for granted. If, for any reason, a senator, works for or ask for it from the Council, takes the initiative to represent him in some field, although less time is available for elections, it is of course right for him to receive that extended amount of travel back. If a council is working longer than these six weeks - it is late, as it has naturally happened, although a election day has been scheduled, there will be efforts at Congress to prevent it from being completed at the time it had been scheduled and its work extended closer to the elections - then, of course, would be a reimbursement for members of Congress and members, homes, etc. Of course, there are potential cases in which a person is acting as a special representative of the Generals or is directly asked to attend an event for his work as a member of the Parliament, although close in elections and regulations, would be used by the prime committee, on the basis of the laws on elections and on Senate costs. We can think of examples such as the request of the chairman of a fixed committee to attend the annual meeting of a total organization as such. He would then be evidently a member of the Generals' enterprise in which he would be called as chairman of the fasting committee and should then be able to repay such costs. I don't think that there's going to be a man who's going to have to set this rule more clearly to explain the contrasts that are probably going to exist up here. Of course, this change is not intended to address the costs of the members of the council as members of Congress and because of their work as such, but to greed for the fact that they are in a position primarily associated with the legalization of various political issues, such as attending meetings and events on the side of their party. When it comes to the campaign and men are mainly candidates for that campaign, there is something else that I consider to be true of. Of course, there would be rules. Of course, with regard to the six-week guidelines, it would be considered in the light of changes in election law, if necessary. Of course, it will simply be a matter of reviewing whether the time limit is to be something other than here. Then it would simply be corrected if a new election law were to be met in one point of the proposal and the beginning of an out-of-state bill. Then, e.g. For that place. It has only been discussed whether there could be a situation difference between the generals and the Ministers in terms of the reimbursement of transport costs due to political or political work that would be approved by the Council and that the General gave these new rules regarding members. It is to answer that, according to the Board of Directors, the Supreme Court has the highest authority. Financial and economic ministers setting up regulations on the cost of work and other Ministers' employment. That's what he'll do in consultation with the highest. Prime Minister. These rules shall be followed by the court of the generals and the presidents of the political parties who serve at the General Assembly to pay expenses for their political activities, as set out in the regulations of the General Assembly's Committee on the basis of this. In other words, the Council is bound in this respect by conforming the rules to those of the Council. Then you may want to review this relationship, and it's okay to talk about it honestly, that the arrangement was a little tense, i.e. For a time, it was the view of the Council of Government that the General should take in the part of the travel costs of a minister who agreed on their work as members of Congress and their political or political professions. But for this, there was a little taping here at the Allied Assembly of the Icelanders. Neither the person standing here nor the former office manager, the Helgi of Bernódusson, were very impressed with that arrangement. This, of course, would have meant that the General should have been disintegrating and sorcering a minister's travel and agreeing that some of their trips were political and were subject to their reimbursement as members of Congress or politicians, while their other trips were official and the Ministry should pay them. Does not each of us know that it had not become an efficient arrangement? Fortunately, there was a reasonable conclusion that the Council of Justice was responsible for this aspect, that financial and economic ministers in cooperation with Prime Ministers agreed on this and ensured that the members of the Council as political candidates and members of Congress in this respect, comparable to the possibility of running their political affairs, meetings and travel on the roads of their country, etc., that they were reimbursed in the same way as on the basis that members of Congress are being paid at an expense of such improvements. This is an essential and vital part of the political vocation, i.e. to carry, to travel, to attend events, and to represent his own companies, to do judgment, when appropriate. I'm not going to be a spokesman to begin to apologize for their existence in these matters or to be ashamed of doing their duties as senators and participating in dealings with their voters, attending events, and being present in their own elections, etc. We must not become so shy in our efforts that we begin to apologize for our existence as such. As I sometimes allow myself to remind myself, it is now much more common than the fact that we senators are ashamed to be hard enough to be seen, unless they may be properly before the election. We can hear that sometimes. Of course, people want to be given a chance at their council members. They like to see them come to events, based festivals, or whatever they are now, and that's just the right thing to do. We are to live along with the human condition of the country and, of course, in the areas where we have applied our authority to work. Had to say this, I don't think there's anything to worry about here. As I considered, it is quite clear that the Council follows changes that the General Assembly may do on these rules precisely to adapt their rules to that, as well as that after this was brought on by a prime committee, when we were in preparation for this case, the conclusion was to put the bill in wait for a while, write a letter to the council, and include them according to their attitude toward these changes. Now we simply have a letter stating that the Ministry of Presidency and Economic Affairs is entitled to make these adjustments if this was the result at the General and did not need, as I say, because I believe that it would have been a legal obligation for them to do so. Mr. President, I've lightly explained the main subject of the bill. Of course, I suggest that this will be done to the management and monitoring committee after this discussion. I just want to add to the fact that the issues involved in reimbursement have certainly been discussed in various ways during this election season, and much work has been done that I think it is really driving the carpenter's hair on and that this may be the final procedure in going through all this program and that my opinion on a much better cut than ever before. Am I not saying that there was a loose person involved? What we have done during this ideal period, and the preparation for it began at the beginning of it - i.e. As early as January 2017, the Committee for Presidency was scheduled for review of travel costs and information on reimbursed costs at the General Assembly - and it was immediately observed. to use a British model that had become a major development, and in more conferences, toward opening up access to information on these objects and making the process more beneficial. The main points of what has been done here are, first of all, the rule itself has been impaired and carried out, being better prepared in a administrative sense. The rules have been set to use the most favorable means of transportation, including driving to build on rental cars, if the distances involved have become such that there is obviously a more favorable option for the council, or the public, let's say that this is tax money, to be used by men. It is being carried out without any compromise. It turns out that as soon as driving reaches 12,000,15,000 miles a year, it has become a more favorable option than reimbursement on your own car for a mile. There is a greater demand for travel and that this analysis complies with confirmatory evidence. Now there is a complete transparency of all the senators' salary and employment and all reimbursement at their expense. Every meal is on the table and published monthly on the Generals web. Anyone can look it up exactly. Of course, it is as if information is available to others, as is the case with each of the Parliament's weddings. It's also there, for example. to see if a member of the Parliament is under pressure at a convention wedding because he is the first or second vice president on committee, etc. It shows the position he has on the cost of living, the cost of travel. Of course, there are only differences in how men are put, whether they are members of the southwestern corner, so - called home drivers, or whether they are local Parliaments who travel to and from their homes every week or so. All reimbursement costs, whether in the country or outside, are available. In my opinion, it's all for a great improvement, and I repeat that with this change now, which I think is fair and right, we've been through all the rule. I say, at least on behalf of me as the President of the Generals, that I am very pleased to say that at the end of the season, this bill will be made legally and undergone. I, of course, have hoped, Mr. President that the case here will be arranged. Then, of course, it would be desirable, without my being and may as the president encourage some quick action - but I must allow myself to point out that it would be extremely desirable that this would have to be legal for the spring, so that the rules of play in this way would be clear in a good time in the hands of a moving election that should be held on September 25. I've finished my case, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u102	A respectable president. He was unusually happy. paritaprevir Steingrimur J. Sigfússon, on the evening news of RUV yesterday when asked if this might be the last bill he represents in his long history at the council. He thought it could be so. That'd be great, because it was a reform case, saying why. Senator. I'm going to agree with him on that. This is one of the many steps we have taken in recent years to increase the transparency of our work here. It is a transparency that is so important that we show how we shoulder our responsibility to be in our assigned role here. This thread can be traced even beyond the beginning of this terms. It was, for example. A significant deal of concern was made when answers were received to the question of why. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, who was so well pleased to sit in the Presidency right now, drawing out a disunition of the Senate expenses that had been reimbursed to members of the council for a few years in advance. That pragmatic experiment showed how important it is to reveal that information. I don't agree that this is an endpoint, but only one of the many steps, and I'm one more step we can take here and now, which I have actually given a bill about before, I did it two years ago, about the expenses that the senators can get either a refund or a fixed amount per month. [[The president calls.]] So I would like to ask, " Shouldn't we not agree to move the cost of work, since it can be in terms of remuneration and that it is always reimbursed against an account? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u103	Mr. President. Of course, it is dangerous to say in such a way that something is permanent, that nothing is permanent, that everything is sweet, and that it changes, and that it needs to be examined. I was more talking about the rules we've been going through that are going back to paying off expenses. I think we've done a great job of strengthening the rule there, and I'm fine with the way we understand it. There are, of course, other factors that can be considered, such as. His work expenses and tax treatments and whether he should be paid solely according to the calculated bills or be committed to a sum of money and how tax treatment is applied. I can totally agree with that, certain of the law's laws on how to get into Congress, and the cost of Congress is about time to go over, and people will just do it next time. But I also allow myself to remind you, Mr. President, that these payments, the cost of work, and the regular travel costs of a district are very low today, compared with what was previously being done, because the General Assembly's response to a certain law of the Kjara was to cut down, in fact, the elected members of Congress, or to cut down much of these payments against the big increase that took place at the council. So these are not the large sums we are talking about in these cases, the cost of work, the fixed payment per month, and the regular cost of travel. But that doesn't change the prince's presence. How to apply e.g. building money up, and how should tax treatment be applied? And I agree in many ways that the most natural structure may be, in terms of cost of work, that men may be able to reimburse the actual cost of their work and that it is not possible to say that it is carried naturally by other payments that they receive.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u104	Mr. President. I agree with what. A senator's work expenses are by no means as high as they have often been, as they have. When he was on. At that time, tax - free labor pay amounted to about 40,000 dollars, the same time that the Senate sale was 195,000. This was a huge settlement for senators back then, 1995. Today, the amount is 40,000. So that the value of such a thing differs from that. But I specifically mention it -- why. A senator talks about the next round and whether it's time or not - because it's a change in a system that's only in this house, this has no effect on the whole community, it's something we can totally take in this round. Then I remind the President of a review he gave to the Commission and the surveillance committee two years ago when my bill on the work expenses was being discussed, which said would allow a recommendation to be considered on a review that was being prepared on the Parliament's Marriage and Congregational Costs. If I had stood here in 2019 with the President's review in hand, I would think the next pass would be now, right now, right now, 2021. Shouldn't we just get the hell out of this and open this portal up? We don't have to ask anyone, only 63 of us sitting in this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u105	Mr. President. This in itself is a legitimate question. A senator, and I'm familiar with this, and I'm reminded of it. Now, I think that when I made this comment in my review, I have even. and above all, there is a review of the terms on contracts and Senate costs that would be involved in what is now in the bill. I know this because already, in 2017 and 2018, this was on the agenda for the Presidency Committee. But because the changes in the rules in this regard are just the months or weeks before elections - it wasn't on its own to put it out until only temporarily before the elections - it's only been achieved that is now that we are returning it here in the form of a bill. But it's actually been around for two or three years. The bottom line had to come up with this case right here. However, all in its own place may be a reason to consider more of the terms on the terms of contracts and congregational expenses. Actually, I do feel that way, for example. That they're unnecessaryly complicated, that they don't have to have so many joints. I kind of thought that it would be just a political wedding, and then two more factors, which would be the job cost and the other on the other hand, taking into account the senator's position, whether he is a member of the country, or a travel officer, or something like that, and trying to simplify it that way. Since then, it is probably best to inform on the way that there has been little movement during this terms and that these payments have been frozen, which, of course, are ambiguous to follow, since, of course, it would be natural for them to move up to the prices each year. [[The president calls.]] However, it has been concluded that they have frozen out this terms for reasons that I think all of us know, that this is not the most appropriate time to raise them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u106	Mr. President. It does not go unnoticed by those who are aware that on the list of carriers of this bill, one of the prime committees is missing, and for good reason. My associates and I will not comment unless it is less clear that there is a difference between the members of the council and those who seek the first place in Congress. But there's one group missing in here, and there's ministers. In the foundation, most often, members of the council, we have one secretary now who is not a senator, and we do not intend to hand over what is involved in the administration of counsellers at any time to the Commission, that some officials may be able to operate there, and that they will be excluded from this law. Actually, it's the thing that might be the subject of reasoning, but it says: U.S. senator's court. 1st and 2. mg who seek re-election will fall after six weeks to their optimal day. I say again, this is not a matter for all members of Congress. Hv. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson said here in answer: All 63 of us in here. But this bill isn't about all 63 of us in here. The members of the Ministry are excluded, acquitted at the time of eating cutters at the highest, acquiesced at the time when men are protruding around the country in order to pacify themselves on the back of the election. I have to say, I'm not giving anything for the letter that came from the Ministry of Presidency and Financial Affairs... that this will be changed to rhythms, i.e. that, after this bill becomes a law, this will be changed as far as a minister is concerned. We feel it's wrong to make this space between ministers and members of Congress. I say again: In the foundation, most often, and generally, ministers are not just local ministers and this is not just a situation difference between ministers and members of Congress who seek reelection, it's a situation between every time and the state of state. It tells itself that these 12, or how many people travel through the country in black cars each time, have a superior position compared with other members of Congress who seek reelection. I can feel it. I still feel the same way as when the bill passed through a prime committee, I don't agree with it for this reason. To be honest, I have found enough, and have found the brief time I have spent in the General as a senator, how much of the council's power is constantly delivered to officials -- fine people all of whom have no one chosen. These fine people, as difficult as they are, do not have to render an account every four years, as do those sitting in this hall. In this regard, I have used one example of countless times, and that is the budget of each year. Each year's budget is 98%, I guess, the work of government officials, and that's not going to get rough. In fact, I have found this since 2013 but still intend to ask my voters and people to accept a law on public finance, which is the greatest government campaign of government officials in modern times, and I believe that it was a big mistake. As soon as each year's budget is legalized in a volume, they are responsible for the responsibility of the people here, though they have 2% in them. If something goes wrong with the implementation of budgets, it's not those who negotiated the budget, the responsibility ends here as it's right to do. It also means that this council and members of Congress need to be more active than they are now, e.g. in this matter. I've felt, in the time I've been sitting here, that there's a certain county going on in terms of Congress pay. Andrés Ingi Jónsson asked: "Why don't we have a working bill? I can totally agree with that. I've probably lost a lot of money over the years that I don't. But there's nothing new to me in itself, it's usually that if you have to lean on the way you approach public money, I'm more of a person to give up something rather than go beyond a reasonable measure or go as far as possible. It's just a private problem, definitely. I could totally agree with that. Senator. I can give you one example: If members of the council, for example. have wanted to attend conferences abroad and intend to use their job expenses to survive it, should not be expensive to achieve it; men may be able to use working expenses for an entire year to cope with such challenges. In this respect, of course, fences would need to be on what right to pay expenses. Then there's another one, and it's just an item that needs to go over, i.e. any cost is reimbursed. I've sometimes said that in my early years here, I didn't take so much cabs in my long life. It happened that when you took a cab then I stopped charging for it because it was all part of your paperwork -- where you came from and where you went, what you had been, etc. It ended with a man not refusing to go into it. Then I'm going to tell you another: A ministry worker jumps into a cab and goes from city to city, and nobody asks questions. But, of course, there are men working, I'm nothing to belittle it. At the same time, we're here working with some small-scale bills and we have to make some kind of paper with them, what other mission we've been in, where we've been going, and where we've been coming from. It's this kind of county that's got on my nerves and also the debate over the salary of the senators, but in my opinion, the salary should be good. I tried to draw this out by making a very extensive inquiry, so extensive that many were startled, of the office of the appointed officials and the personnel of the institutions and the councils. I think I can claim that there is no government director with such a small institution that he is not better off paid than any general. I can give you another example. There is a term called an office manager without an office in the Ministry, and such jobs are produced for various reasons. I don't think that such an employee is the same as a senator, i.e. A senator under pressure from a committee or vice president or something like that. I have sometimes put it this way: If we were at sea, it would be quite ready for a sailor and a boatman to be no more rewarded than a driver. I'm not saying that out of presumptuousness. I'm asking, "Where's your responsibility? If she's lying here, which she's doing in my opinion, and we have to give it back every four years, then the remuneration should be in accordance with that. I'm not crying about this, we're taking this to ourselves because we want to do this, because we want to do this, not necessarily because it's on the street by people who are asking us to do this. It is true, however, that the labors of senators who do their work are quite long. It was just an outcast, but I was going to say: " Ministers are on the ground, most of the cases, members of Congress. I don't think it's right to check counsellors at any given time for the box being senators. I don't think that we should make it a voluntary mistake, imagined or imagined, between the minister and the senator here in this hall. I don't think so. I don't think that we should contribute to that, and I don't think that we should contribute to that by letting go of the counsellers at any given time to this procedure for the council, not all of us 63, but 63 minus the number of ministers each time, except outside the council. This difference remains, and my projection is that e.g. Now, if this bill has to be legal before the end of the council, new rules regarding Ministers will be seen. I'd bet on November of this year, after the next election. The rules that will be submitted will not be appealed. The senators won't say, "Hey, Dad, it wasn't supposed to be this way. " It won't be like that. These rules will be set up in the conferences for the Ministers, and we will sit and watch something done. I think it's wrong, Mr. President. I reiterate what I said at the outset: Our middle-class people feel completely self-contracted to try to balance the standards on the senator's subject and the elected representative who is looking for a reelection, no doubt a case. But we do feel that any elected agent who seeks reelection, including a minister, should be represented. For this reason, this bill cannot be supported. Although it's probably well meant, it's going only halfway, unfortunately. It would have been a perfect opportunity now, as we have seen, to balance this situation once, just once and for all. No, it wasn't done. This group was left for evil ends. Therefore, this bill cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u107	Mr. President. I asked for the word to respond, but I'm afraid I should change it to go wrong. I'm kind of offended by the way. A senator, to come here and keep it so tight into the things I was going through in front of my head and head. A senator should know very well that this is not the right thing he claims here, that ministers are divorced, and that they were not to be treated with the bill. What's going on here is that it's changing the basic laws that the Minister has a responsibility to take care of the Minister's travel costs. There would have been no need for a letter, but I made a good point of saying it's a case at the Board of Directors, that we're happy to make these changes, and we have letters to say that there is a change in the rules. But in itself, we wouldn't have needed it because it's the official financial minister's duty to handle the travel costs of the Minister's political work that they're there, like at the council. He is required to act on the rules in accordance with the decision made by the Council. It's the right thing to do in this matter. Of course, it would be neglect on the part of the minister if the rules of the day had not been exposed until November. I would understand that, and I would not be upset by it. A senator mistrusted the Ministry. He may have very limited faith that the Council of Government will fulfill its purpose. But I don't want to live up to the fact that I'm putting up here a case that will knowingly separate a minister and intend them to travel at the expense of the state as campaign candidates, not members of Congress. That's not what I'm doing. I think that's what. A senator should retract that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u108	Mr. President. I have no intention of changing what I said here. I say again that I believe that I have some pretty good reason to believe that this situation will not be right, despite what has been presented here. I don't think this is clear enough, and I don't think it's going far enough, so that's why I wasn't and I'm not ready to accept this bill as it is. That's very clear. Of course, the President of the council may be at odds with me, and it wasn't my thought to belittle him, but this bill that is presented here does not cover the goals we are looking for. I did not compromise this case on the Senate Presidency Committee because I did not have and do not have the conviction that it will correct or correct the situation between the senator and the minister of the election. I'm going to keep it until something else is proved, which I don't believe to be in the way of the election that goes hand in hand.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u109	Hv. A senator will only have to accept his case. He's saying, of course, that we here, eight of us, all of his associates on the Presidency Committee and hearing agents, are putting forth here a case that goes on the other side of the Minister, that they should be able to travel to the State's cost of campaign campaigning instead of councilmen. That's not true. It's just not right. I considered it in my history why the operation is the same as it is, and it was a general who was better off in that regard. The arrangement is the same as the Council wanted it to be. Of course, the cost of being taken by the Minister of Ministers is carried by the government when he travels in his duties as a minister, but to ensure that he has the same political position as the members of Congress, a minister of finance is required to establish rules that he has the same discretion, to reimburse the same amount of travel expenses if he is in political affairs as the members of Congress are receiving. The minister must have the rules, as the Council decides, on terms of weddings and Senate costs and regulations. Secretary of finance has no choice in this matter. He's bound by it, so there's no way to argue that there's any intention here to separate a minister, and I don't live up to it. If a minister were to proselytize the rules in November, I would be as disagreeable. Senator. I'll give him my word that I'll be very close to seeing that if this is a law, the Council's rules will immediately change.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u110	I appreciate the fact that the president of the Parliament makes such an explicit statement. I'm not used to betting, but sometimes I suggest betting a bag of chocolate-coated raisins and I'm ready to do it again on account of this case. If it comes to the matter that I'm wrong, I will present the council president a bag of chocolate raisins, but I don't expect it to be necessary simply because I don't feel clear enough here that it will be. Now, the man who stands here for a few years, and knows how Ministers go about, both in the way of elections and out of the time, and in this respect and in the experience I've gained in that field, I'm still hard on what I said before. We'll have to have some disagreements, me and the President of the council, in terms of this. But if it turns out it's going to all stick together as expected then I'm going to do what I promised you before, but again, our trust in it is not enough to allow us to accept this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u111	The president finds a nice chocolate marsh, and he takes a pledge. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u112	Mr. President. With contributions from this bill as a dog. A traveller, president of Generalis, Stegiur J. Sigfússon, has recommended that - men have now used metaphorically - at least the bottom of it - at least. Consumed by a discussion that has had quite a long life on the Presidency Committee and, indeed, in the community for a while, the longest of this terms, i.e. of employment, travel expenses, and prenuptials that are served by members of the Parliament. Especially are those who have more to attend and drive considerably - now the main subject of conversation. It has been called for increased transparency, clear criteria, and clear behavior, and this is very normal. Let me say that all the discussions that have taken place on the Committee to Presidency have been useful and very perfunctory and responsible. I also allow myself to say that the President has taken what has been said seriously and how the discussion has been and has endeavored to correct matters. It is not much to say that all projects involved in the agreed labour costs and the travel costs within the country have been reviewed, and these are now clear rules and information available, as far as possible. A traveller entered, on the Generals' web and regularity of this matter. This is understandable, and it is not to be criticized here that this was made a talker of the past for several years, this seemingly high and out of control. It is all stretchible, but those involved endeavored to comply with the rules in force at the time. They may have been based on the best conscience, and the breaking of rules could not be demonstrated. During the entire session of the Presidency Committee, the president's mind was involved in considering this, and that's well. I appreciate that on the Presidency Committee, there is a convergence on this subject and in principle there is no conflict, for it is of course normal for a state to be organized. This is a quest for fairness and justice, to ensure greater equality between those who seek reelection, by remuneration of travel costs, and the new members or members of Congress. A transporter entered a new political organization, e.g. to communicate with the voters. It has been evaluated to allow six weeks before the wedding day to be a suitable delay. As shown in the performance of an executive, of course, there is a natural minimum of leave because life has its start, and the work at the council is being done until the election day. However, the bill does not reach members of Congress who do not intend to allow themselves to remain in session at the General Assembly. The point may also be taken to consider, whether it is in the normal way it is now. I can accept various views of that relationship. I just wanted to kill my foot off for this reason, believe that this is a better case, and no doubt, as shown here in the answers, you can work on more projects in this field. But your transparency is complete. And because I'm one of the senators who's under it sold to be a so-called home driver, I think this is going to be really good, and I do, for example. An article that happens every single mile I drive, and I give it to you in an electronic driving diary. The Group of Groups supports these changes in a material way that the bill involves. But, of course, this support is bound to the completion of the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs proposals to change the rules of travel costs and other services of the Ministers and to include comparable restrictions on the reimbursement of the secretary of elections and is put on this bill. It should, in fact, be, as it were. A vehicle to lead by itself, as there is confirmation of the Ministry of Presidency that this will be carried out.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u113	Mr. President. It's like I said when I had a word here. Then we will talk to a bill that looks for improvement in the council and is part of a long journey that has been in progress with a measure of urgency since the appointment of a member of the council and continues to extend beyond the same order. the demands of an elected representative for the general population. The demands have changed over the years, and it is now so part of being professional in our jobs that members of the Parliament are making us aware, for example. what is happening between us and those who want to get in here without being in the same position as we do. Therefore, it is very positive that this is an attempt to balance that value by making clear and that I hope a reasonable, strict framework of the reimbursement of the senators'travel expenses as they begin to vote. But because it's part of a long process, I'd like to mention a few guards along the way. One of the larger is when the General Assembly began to appear on the II Parliament's website to provide information on cost paid to members of Congress. That's why it's so big. A member of this case was highly commended for bringing them to work as U.S. president, but also the president who now sits in the chair for revealing information that was not easy to obtain but that mattered greatly about reimbursement of members of the Parliament on his own cars. Now the situation is that I could do it in the hall playing while I was waiting to download a record that contains all cost paid to all members of the council from 2012, and I could get a table calculus to figure that in 2017, there were reimbursements for the trip to my own car 20.8 million, but the year after 8.6 million. At the same time, the pay due to travel with a rental car had increased, but not nearly as much as due to its own automobiles was reduced. This is so good an example of the antiseptic effects of sunlight, how things can improve just drawing things into the light. By the fact that information on reimbursement to members of the council seems to have drawn them near to this privilege, that is, I give more respect than they ever did, they were more cautious. I'd like to go with this bill that we'd like to discuss as a bill I submitted in 2019, managed to measure, and went to the management and monitoring committee, and I'm afraid we can call it an ancient foundation. It is a suggestion made 26 years ago by Ögmundur Jónasson that the sole cost of working for members of Congress would be reimbursed, not as a fixed cost of each month and a suggestion made by Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir at the same time that ministers are not able to reimburse the cost of working. Neither of these proposals was made in 1995, and failed to walk with the bill I submitted to in 149, but the Economic and Business Commission made a second proposal to make a change to the bandorm that went through here for about one and a half years, so the idea that Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir set in the dirt 26 years ago and I watered some time later was accepted by the General Assembly as the transition that the Ministers no longer get paid back jobs ends their offices owe only to their office, which is due to be a source of the current cost of their work. It's a small change, but it still goes to $5.3 million. a year's savings. Although it's all a big umbilization of ours, it's not just because 5.3 million are serious peaks, it's also because it reflects that we're involved in public money with respect and responsibility. However, it will end the other half of the bill I submitted two years ago, and Algmund Jónasson's original idea that 26 years ago, in terms of the work of senators who do not serve as ministers. That's what I talked to you about. The counter-reflector who believes that there is a full reason for a management and monitoring committee to look at the bill we're discussing here because it's something we can easily get around. Today's work expenses are 480,000. Every year for every senator, and it's listed as a full page of expenses allowed to be reimbursed, and I take my heart to the ground. A carrier to see that this system is overly complicated. But that's exactly where I think that transparency can help us. It does not require precise rules written on paper so that the Office of the Generals can review if the cost of work is simply reimbursed, and the accounts then published. The maintenance of this, I believe, is enough to allow the extremely simple rules of working expenses to work, and he could even lower the amount of money he made in his day. To have fun. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, who is the only member of the council who was at the time when the Senate budget was approved, I can recall what medical expenses could be made at the time of their appointment. You see, that was even. fax devices. This shows so good why the rules should be simpler. The rules on reimbursement had to be changed when no one thought of using a fax machine any longer. It should not be necessary to change the rules of working conditions for members of Congress just because a new tool is coming into the market. They should be able to adapt. This was shown in the second answer of the question. I'm told that he personally felt that the whole system around the coming wedding could be simplified. I would like to express my heartfelt appreciation for that. Idea of what? The senator was guessing a threesome; it would be the Senate deal itself, so it would be a labor bill that would be an office of the Parliament to provide members of the Parliament with the necessary facilities to carry out their duties, and then it would be stress paid by members of the Parliament. It would also review a small basis for stress agreements because they may reflect a somewhat respected series of offices within the council rather than necessarily work loads set up today. If I recall correctly, the head of a political party is under 50 percent pressure, while the chairman of a constant committee is under 30 percent stress at the wedding. But if we're just looking at jobs within the council, I think that the prefect of a regular committee is at least as stressful as being the head of a political party, although political provinity may be more stressful to society. I'm not gonna have any more words on this. I'm just looking forward to dealing with this case in the management and monitoring committee and, therefore, there's no way we can handle this case pretty fast and well and then hopefully along with the fact that if the members of the Parliament no longer can expect to be paid as remuneration, we have to make receipts and receipts of the day if we are going to get a refund of legitimate expenses.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u114	President. It's the best case here, because I'm with a importer. There are two things I want to do in this discussion. First, I don't think it necessary to separate those senators who don't want reelection, just for the sake of simplicity. But it's totally harmless to me that it's there on the bill. The rest is the debate over senators and ministers. I have no doubt that the bill as it is will achieve the success of the Minister. But there are some ministers who actually have security, a driver who makes that security, and who can't really, by the way, deny it, at least there were some complications behind it. I think it's Prime Minister, Minister of Economics and Foreign Ministers, and I'm getting less of a memory so that it could be something different than just according to my memory and inaccurate sources, I'm putting this up as irresponsible. If these costs are to be taken into account for a minister, it may be a problem for someone who will see some Ministers get a ride at a vote or during a campaign campaign at an election meeting. I just wanted to make it clear that there may be a difference between some stewards and a difference between the situation, with some ministers getting out ahead of others and over the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u115	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize a change in the law on passenger transport and transport in the country, no. 28/2017. The bill involves two adjustments in the law. On one hand, it is suggested to add the requirements of temporary transport in passenger transport and monitoring of such transport. However, new provisions for monitoring the fare of public transportation are proposed to open and support more efficient solutions to the fare costs with the aim of promoting services to users. Since these changes are produced by two different reasons, I will discuss them separately. First, there should be temporary travel in passenger transport, defined as the irregular passenger transport between the country's roads for the cost of transporting companies temporarily run out in the hosting states, and is consistent and confirmed within the European Economic Areas allowed to engage in temporary transport by the country in more specific cases. Nowhere, though, is there a more specific definition of what might be considered a ה-term visitor transport, and because of this, there is a lack of legal basis to enforce the fact that the received transport is actually temporary but not sustained. Foreign transport companies have been doing such guest transport in a country with tourists on the basis of the source, but this inexplicable capacity has led to problems in maintaining temporary transport, resulting in the development of a particular temptation to operate long-term transport on the basis of a provision for temporary transport that damages the competitive status of local vehicles. So I propose with this bill that by the transport and transport laws of passengers, the definition of temporary travel by passenger transport will be improved. The proposed definition is in accordance with the definition of the above European rules, but it is also clearly defined by the duration of the transfer without the identification of persistence. And it shall be according to the space of ten days in the month of Almanach. Set the time limit for moving within them to be considered temporary in the understanding of the Regulation, but they are also objectively relevant to the transport workers involved in this move, where ten days should be sufficient to travel with a group of tourists throughout the country. There are also adjustments to enable active monitoring of transport and to apply any guidelines that violate the law's regulations for such transport. I will now discuss the changes the bill contains and the more efficient solutions to public transportation payments. The aim of these changes is to promote services to users of public transport without being accompanied by significant loss of income from immigrants. This calls for legalization of certain basics related to the duties of passengers and the sources of immigrants in this field. In turn, a passenger's duty to draw out the values of the cargo or to show in other ways the payment of a fare as well as the right of an artist to verify that the fare was paid. There is also the need to demand the passengers for neglect of the work that is unable to demonstrate the payment of a fare as well as the review of such decisions, therefore, that there may be an added authority on public transportation to see if passengers have paid the right fare and the need for a passenger to show proper payment. If a passenger cannot do this, a messenger will be allowed to demand that he be treated with neglect, which takes the relative account of the fare a passenger would pay for. This will enable immigrants to enter cars through more than one door where a driver will not have to monitor that all passengers paid fare. Instead, immigrants will be able to check the fare of a random passenger's fare and will insist on neglect of the burden of payment. If a passenger thinks that he has a choice to demand a burden of neglect, he can request a review of the decision to be called upon to a Community agency. This system, which is usually used in most of our neighboring countries, is designed to make the process more efficient, open to new ways of paying fares and shorten the time spent in public carriages at stations. A respectable president. I believe the proposed legislation is important to explain the order of temporary move by members of the move in other EEA countries in this country. Then they tend to pay for more efficient solutions in paying fares in public transportation. I have now explained the central subject of the bill and other aspects of the bill itself and its articles. Then I suggest that the case be followed by this discussion. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u116	A respectable president. I recommend here for a bill to legalize the crews of ships. This bill makes a suggestion, which includes a simple rule of work, where the new total law combines four more layers of law that are in force today. There is a law on the crews of Icelandic passenger ships and freight ships, on the crews of Icelandic fishing ships, on guard ships, on cruise ships, on cruise boats and other ships, on the legal registration of sailors, and on the embargos and cooks of shipping ships and fishing vessels. On the basis of these laws, which are to be replaced by the bill, there are also regulations that are further developed in the law. Within the Ministry and the Association Office, this process is now being simplified and updated as a whole so that it is more accessible to those who work accordingly. If the bill is expected to reduce the law from 15 to two to four, it may be reduced. So it would be a simple task in this regard. There is a value for large international regulations based on contracts made by the International Cording Agency and the International Jobs Agency, as well as on the actions adopted in the EEA Convention. The bill is consistent with this international commitment. The bill is divided into nine chapters. Chapter I contains laws and goals that are to ensure safety of the crew, passengers and ships, and to protect against pollution. At the same time, there is an arrangement for the education of sailors in this country. Il. section deals with certificates, version, condition that must be met, their duration and their lot. In III. chapter 9 discusses the registration of sailors, but it is mandatory that all sailors on ships that agree with these laws be registered. In this chapter, you will find laws that will further apply this obligation as well as laws on the seaman registration system, held outside by a dining room. IV. section is a law concerning the husband of a vessel, i.e. for the safety of passenger ships, passenger boats, and freight ships, and about the minimum number of ship and motor operators on fishing ships, patrols, and other ships. This calls for anomalies from minimal design, from cooks, and from butlers. Chapter V contains watchpoint and work and rest hours for shipmates and VI. a section on working conditions and health of the sailors. Wll's. This section discusses the responsibility of the structure and ship's captains and the international security systems to be used by transport ships of a specific size and passenger ship. He's at VIII. Chapters are a provision for monitoring, which is in the hands of the Association and National Protection Agency of Iceland, the citizens of these institutions, the administration laws and the violations of the bill's regulations. The IX. and the last chapter are the permission regulations of the minister to set up regulations, European type induction and implementation. If the bill is legalized, it will take effect on January 1, 2022. Thus, construction, sailors, and other economists will have time to learn the requirements of the law and prepare for taking effect. At the same time, the government will have time to update regulations and other administrations before the law takes effect. A respectable president. The bill does not suggest extensive material changes in the requirements of existing laws. This will discuss key changes made by the bill. First of all, certain foreign ships can fall under the standards of the law. It refers to a commercially used foreign ship that lasts 30 days or a total of 90 days each year. It is reasonable to assume that safety requirements apply to that ship. This law could, for example, be used. ...................................................................................................... Second, it is suggested that the Commission and the Carmunion Committee be laid down and the work assigned to a Grouping Agency. This project has been carried out by a dining room in regard to passenger ships, passenger boats, and shipping vessels since the United States's crew and freighter's legislation went into effect on July 1, 2001. It is normal to have the same arrangement for such an exception. They also consider the decisions made by the Committee to be charged with a minister, and most often they are members of the members of the organisation that represent the committee. Third, taking into consideration their curfew, i.e. ships of 15 meters and shorter to registration length will be followed by a 14 - hour rule on the basis of 64th par. Seaman song. When their suspension exceeds 14 hours, there will be a separation of two ship managers on board at all times with appropriate rights, and they will also be able to perform the duties of a sub-carversaries with the rights to their functions. This is not a new point, but it is important that the law clearly states it. It is important that Sabbath rules be respected so that those who stand out and sail are not too tired to do their job. The information of the transport accidents to 50 coasts can be attributed from 2000 to the falling of the ship's user because of fatigue and work loads, and the committee has produced many suggestions for improvement in this material. Clearly, not everyone agrees with this rule. Has even. Criticizing the fact that this is the result of the extinction of the monarchs. So when the ship's owner is registered as captain and is on his own, he is set up on that list. It is the same with individuals who do not practice daily beach fishing. Looking at a similar rule in Norway. Fourth, it is suggested that aboard a ship be a cook or a butler in the absence of a ship, not according to the size of a butler and a ship cook. Finally, it is suggested in the fifth order to set up an arrangement for administrative fines that Iceland's National Protection Agency, or the Transportation Agency, can impose on the basis of violations of certain laws and regulations according to their regulations. The approval of the bill is not expected to bring in the financial expenses. Small changes may occur in follow-up with permission for application of administrative guiltys, but the source is not expected to be extensively applied. It is not expected that the bill will significantly affect your job life. It should be noted that this bill has been designed to influence it on equality. Looking at who today's crew in Iceland, it's mostly men. Sporting is a man - made industry and a major gender difference in the entire work - related article. It is urgent to match the gender ratios in this field and to give a wide range of reasons. Within the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs, women on cruises are now being assigned to reduce these differences between the sexes in sailing. It should be noted, then, that language in this sector, as well as the laws and regulations that apply to it, is highly male and are used to reduce it as far as possible in the bill. A respectable president. I have now explained the key elements of the bill and suggested that it be followed by this discussion referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u117	A respectable president. I recommend here for a bill for a new layer of structure and flight management, and air traffic service. The bill suggests that the total structure and structure of airports will be set up as well as the management of air traffic and air travel services to be established by the government. Hence, the bill will include a much simple rule, as well as a much clearer way in which governments serve in this area. If the bill falls from the law, three laws currently apply in this field: Firstly, European Air Management Board, No. 102/2006. Second, a law on the establishment of a government community on the operation of the Keflavor Airport, No. 76/2008. Third, the union between the official members of Fústoa and Keflavík Airport, No. 153/2009. These three laws combine to set up various laws on the establishment of tolerated members, their roles, and their internal work, and they set out today to lay the basis for this activity of the State. A respectable president. I will now explain the main subject of the bill. It can be divided into four parts: First, they are defined as the work on the operations and construction of airports, the management of air traffic, and the flight history services to which governments are expected to take care of on the part of the State. These tasks defined in Article 3. The bill is in short terms a business and development of the management of air traffic and air history services, business and construction of the Cheflavor airport, and operations and development of other commercial aircraft. The primary objective of the bill is set out in Article 2. They are up to national airports and air traffic services serving the needs of society in an environmentally sustainable way through efficiency, efficiency and security, in accordance with the government's transport policies at any given time. This will be defined in five letters of particular objective aimed at the implementation and implementation of the above Kingdom projects in this field. These include: a. The infrastructure and functions in this field ensure the quality of the management of air traffic and air travel services and the maximum level of flight security. Then the demands of air travel and other laws and regulations in this region will always be met. b. A pan-European airport service here on a national level, including a preliminary airport service, contributes to the maintenance and competitiveness of the country's international and cross-linking activities. c. The airport is an active part of the safe and practical transportation within the country and is linked to other public transportation. d., the government's policy on transport is being followed as reflected in flying policies and transport programs at any given time. ... government policies are being followed as reflected in national security policies for Iceland. This clear presentation of the State's activities in this field and the aim for their implementation is an important new wording in this bill. Second, it is stated that Istavia should be carried out on behalf of the State on the basis of service contracts, as it has been. However, it is also indicated that a minister can negotiate with another member of the individual projects if necessary, or if thought that it can achieve the objectives of the bill more effectively. The bill does not contain regulations for the organization and internal activity of Isa ohf. Such laws are viewed as out of the law on the State's work in this regard. The Society operates on the basis of the framework set out in the government laws on public financial and social laws as well as on owners policies and approved society. If there is a need for special laws on the activities of the company, they should be in its special laws. However, it is still assumed that Istavia ohf. to the main policy on the work of the State in this field, based on service agreements with the Ministry, as stated earlier. Thus, this bill is not expected to result in changes in the regulation of Isa ohf. or a business basis for the company. Third, the bill makes up a similar set of rules and in the current legislation particularly relevant to the management of the Cheflavor airport, both for security areas on the field as well as for the traditional activities of the rural team used by the operator in the airport. Fourth, the value of older laws in this area is cut off, as previously traced. In the end, it should be noted that the bill does not deal with technical requirements for operating aviators or flying history services. This depends on the laws on air travel. The bill was conducted by a Writing Committee appointed to representatives of the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, the Ministry of State, the Association, and Istavia. The bill's editorial was represented by the Department of Transport and Division. It is thought that a clear and updated legal environment in this area will support the efficient management of airports and flying navigation services and will contribute to the advancement of government policies in this area. I've been over the bill's main subject. If the law does not expect it to have a significant impact on the survival of a Kingdom fund. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u118	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 235/2020, which recommend that the European Parliament and Council Directive 2017/828 of 17 May 2017, of a change in Directive 2007/36/EC on the matter of Long-term participation of shareholders, be included in the EEA Convention. With the Directive entered into the EEA Convention by Decision No. 235/2020 is set as a rule in the use of the specific rights of the shareholders which follow voting rights in relation to the main meeting of a partner on the market. It contains rules on the right of registered partners to establish stockholders in order to communicate directly with them, thus making it easier for shareholders to use their social rights. The directive contains between the members and shareholders rules, including for transparent costs, but complex intermediate chain can make it harder for shareholders to use their rights and prevent their involvement. The directive contains guidelines for transparency among institutions, possessors and local advisers. The directive contains rules that a registered body should set up pay policy for managers and that shareholders have the right to vote for shareholders meetings and thus influence society's pay policy. The directive contains rules on transparency of important business relating to linked partners. In accordance with Directive 2017/828, an amendment of the 2007/36/EC Directive was implemented as a partner law, no. 2/1995. I suggest, a respectable president, that the end of this discussion will be referred to the motion. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u119	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 19/2020, which measures the Regulation of the European Parliament and Council Regulation 2015/760 from 29 April 2015 on the European Long-term Investment Fund, as well as the Commission Regulation 2018 of December 4, 2017, on the addition to European Council Regulation and Council Regulation 2015/760, to the technical monitoring standards for financial consequences that have the sole purpose of protecting against the risks, a sufficient life span of the European long-term investment funds, market assessments for potential buyers and valuables which are to be released and the characteristics of the general public investors. European Parliament and Council 2015/760 divided into the EEA Convention by decision No. 19/2020 stipulates a European long-term investment fund which provides long-term funding for various domain projects, e.g. The internal, unscheduled enterprises and SMEs. It is a new European fund type, which, however, is considered a special fund rather than stocks and is subject to the rules of the management of specialized funds. These funds are intended to invest in tasks requiring long-term financing, but it can be difficult to find financial support. Then the idea is that the funds could be suitable for long-term investors, such as pension funds, insurance companies and rural communities. The Commission Regulation 2018/480 is a technical check-up standard with Regulation 2015/760 on the European long-term investing funds in terms of the consequences of fiscal financial failures which are only used in risk management, the appropriate lifetime of European long-term investors, the criteria for potential buyers and the assessment of property for sale and the requirements for general investors. I propose, a respectable president, that the end of this discussion will be alluded to this proposal. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u120	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct a change in the law of measures following a contract with the United States on the return of the defense zone at Keflavour Airport, No. 176/2006. The bill suggests removing from the earlier laws the provision of temporary action that will be considered complete. First of all, legal cleansing is a evaporation of laws. It is also suggested that the law's name be changed to a law on the division of the Keflavíví airport to further reflect the remains of the laws. The bill takes into account the work of the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs in implementing a new role for the Cheflavor airport Development Society after its role in putting real estates in the defence area in civil use, finished with sales on the last members of the society's administration. So with the bill, there is even. Based on the change to a factor of 4. track No. 176/2006, which deals with the role of the developing society under the law. A country near the airport is already valuable, and it is anticipated that its value will increase even further. A good organization is essential to maximising the social benefits of using the land. Therefore, the need to ensure that order will be complete and land will be properly restored regardless of the development of rural society and the degree of the Keflavour airport. For these reasons, the evolution Society has been given a new role in leading the formal cooperation of the State, Isavia, Smokeytown, and Southern Town on Organization, Development, Use, and launching of the country at Keflavour Airport and its surrounding areas. The meeting of this material was signed on December 16, 2019, between the above parties and the state funds. The contents of the bill take into account the agreement on the new role of the developing society. A respectable president. I have now explained the subject of the bill and suggest that it be followed by this discussion referred to why. Foreign Affairs and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u121	Madam President. I recommend a bill to legalize the Scientific and Neo-creation Council. The bill is made up in the cooperation of the Ministry of Presidency, Education and Culture, and the Ministry of Employment and Development. Therefore, if it is approved it is intended to replace the scientific and technical legislation, No. 2/2003. Since that law was accepted, there have been great changes in science, technology, and innovation, but the governing of the jury and the role of the council have remained unchanged. During this period there have been repeated indications in national and scientific assessments of the need for revision and change. The bill is based on the work of a project group appointed at the end of 2018 to reevaluate the legal environment of the Scientific and Technical Council of Science and Guðrún and to be a Professor of the Nordal Committee and Directorate of the Scientific Committee. The group returned their results in August 2020 in a report on the state of the country's affairs, reported the arrangements in controlled countries, and proposed proposals for future scientific, technical, and innovation programmes. Mr. President. The aim of these legislation is to promote scientific, technological development and innovation in this country to strengthen Icelandic knowledge society and to increase the competitiveness of Iceland's economy and industry by promoting policies and coordination in science, innovation and technology. The most important change in the current arrangement proposed in the bill is separation from the counselor role and dating role of the Council. Thus, on the other hand, there will be the acting secretary's committee on science and innovation and, on the other hand, a professional scientific and innovation advice that will become a consultant. This conclusion is based on careful examination and organization in controlled countries and other OECD countries. It is then suggested that, within the Ministry's work, independent experts in the field of diagnosis, assessments and assessments in this field support both activities and strengthens that fundamental policy. In accordance with current legislation, the Scientific and Technical Council is a policy-makers but has, in fact, played a responsible role. The Council's policy model has not been well compatible with the Icelandic board of directors and traditions where ministers are the highest executives of the European Commission in their own language. Ministers are not legally bound by the council's policy, even if they sit in the council and agree to the policy, and it has been concluded that the expectations of the policy have not been met. It is up to the stewards themselves to the extent that they take advantage of the Council's fields and knowledge of its Committees when they shape policies in their language groups. The finance of projects or priorities is also the study of each Ministry. The progress of the Council's policy depends primarily on whether ministers responsible for certain activities and their funding will see to it that the projects are carried out. So it is very important to ensure that the Ministers' possession of their policy in its shape. The Council's unexplained role has given rise to expectations that have not always been within control. This situation has even resulted in distrust, especially when individual policy targets, such as raising funds, cannot be achieved. That was an important goal of law No. 2/2003 to link scientific and innovation policy to other government policies, e.g. in economic, professional and educational fields. The National Assessments of the Council have suggested that the political influence of the Scientific and Technical Council on Economic and Business Policy has been relatively small. This mitigation of the dual working area of the Science and Technology Council provides an answer to the problem described here, i.e. that, instead of the present arrangement, there will be a new legal advisory committee on science and innovation with a clear policy-making role and scientific and innovation as its controlling role based on reliable analysis. It is suggested that the Ministry Committee on Science and Evolution regularly provide a vision of the future in science, innovation, and technology to ten years of age, setting an example for such a council in Finland as for a similar course for university and science in Norway. The Commission will also provide policies and measures with measurable targets of shorter time. It is suggested that the Council of Science and Evolution be composed of a four - year prime minister. It consists of nine highly knowledgeable and experienced agents, from national and international sources. The advice would be lower than today, and it would be appointed for a long time. It would no longer be associated with the claims of stakeholders or individual institutions. Rather, it would be assigned to the nominees of the council. The Council would be supported by the professional work of independent specialists within the Ministry and would therefore be more independent of the work than of the current council, free to open up information to the council and to the nation, and more powerful in its duties. Emphasis is placed on good order of counsel. In the present system, prime minister appoints all agents other than Ministers of Science and Technology, but does so according to the claims of other ministers and stakeholders. The problem with this arrangement is that it makes it difficult for prime minister at any given time to look to the overall composition of the Council in terms of differences in knowledge and experience and makes it possible for a large proportion of candidates to reach people with a similar background. I've been in two Scientific and Technical Councils, and they usually have excellent strong individuals, but this order can lead to a certain imbalance of knowledge and experience, considering the composition of the group. In order to improve the overall thinking of the council's orders, it is suggested that, rather than any other authority, a special proposal be offered to the prime minister for the order of the council. There will be three members, one according to the appointment of the university body, one according to the motion form of a representative of an enterprise and one without any appointment. This committee cooperates with the Ministry and the legislatures and wishes to appear in the council. On the basis of its discussion, it offers a suggestion on the basis of its composition with the aim of being represented by a broad range of experience and knowledge of science, technology and innovation, and public policies, both domestic and foreign. I remember that when it was decided at the time to set up a university quality council that I believe was a very important step in evaluating the university career in Iceland, it was done in the way that foreign parties were to develop quality food at the university institutions in Iceland. I am absolutely convinced that this advice has produced a huge change in university education in the country, and it has just created an important conversation with foreign experts on how we can do better in college and what ways to improve. Another example that I could explain the importance of this broad approach is that when existing legislation on the Kingdom Hall was adopted in 2013, it was suggested that it be a committee of nominees under the Management Board of the Kingdom News to ensure such width. In fact, this was changed, and the council continued to vote. Of course, both methods have advantages and defects, but in many places, e.g. in the north, this methodology is used to counter all alone in the case of professional institutions. Mr. President. Science and innovation are expected to meet with the Ministry on Science and Newborns at least once or twice a year. The role of the Council is to provide counseling on scientific and innovation policies and to draw attention to important issues. The Commission shall be reimbursed by reviewing its policy and providing logical suggestions for reforming with reference to international scientific, innovation, and technology. The Council shall promote an informed and critical discussion of science, technology and innovation, the status of the articles and the importance of Icelandic society through reports and open meetings. It is then assumed that the Scientific and innovation Council will submit annual reports to the Minister in which the situation of the international case party will be discussed on the basis of government policy, policy implementation, and major social challenges. It is worth considering that in this ideal time period, we first took steps to define social challenges that would take place within the scientific community. The work involved a considerable amount of work to identify these social challenges. Part of that process was to put open communication, a public council, where people could say what was most important to governments. That's where climate issues came in the front. Then there were medical and health sciences and, eventually, technological changes, what we often call the fourth industrial revolution. This was the three social challenges established by governments. As a result of these challenges, I have a new goal plan, and I see that governments will, above the advice of this committee, lay the lines in order to form the future plan in this manner in agreement with this committee. While most of the research work will remain in competitive funds where quality is really the only standard for this, there is an opportunity to add weight to certain social challenges. I think it would also be very exciting to promote such a conversation here at the General Assembly, for this bill is expected to submit the report to the General. We also draw examples from our neighboring countries. The name of the Council is suggested to be the Science and the Neo-creation Council rather than the Scientific and Technical Council. I think it is only in harmony with the change in termization in the last 20 years where the term innovation has been replaced by the concept of technology in many places. The concept of innovation is more widespread than technology, and it leads to the innovation not only the development of technology. Mr. President. The law's review had extensive consultations with experts and stakeholders. The contents of the bill have twice been published in the consultation puzzle. First, the results of the work group were published in the fall of 2020 and saw that the bill was published in March 2021. Expansion expected to increase approximately Twenty million. K. This year, where two specialists are expected to be replaced by the Ministry to support more fully the work of the Ministry of Ministers and Scientific and Neonatal Council. The current expenditures are about 18◯22 billion. K. every year, which goes to three departments. Today, about 40 million are expected. K. This year, plus 3 million. K. cost of stock in the first year. I don't expect additional funding, but I'd like to remind you that both research and innovation have grown largely in recent years, so I think that these 20 million are a drop in the ocean at the billions of expenditures, and that there has been an understanding of the three schemes that have taken care of this cost, i.e. The top office, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Professionals, set priorities. Mr. President. I'm not gonna have this any further. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The General and Education Committee following this discussion and through 2nd. at the end of this treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u122	A respectable president. I recommend here for bill on deck. 1183, a 704th matter of the Council, of changing various laws in the field of fishing. This bill suggests the establishment of a complete subsidiary system because of violations of fish - control laws. In addition, the sources of the Fish Room are suggested for electronic surveillance to become a source of strength. It is suggested that the concept of real control in implementing the rules of maximum force division will be further set up, particularly in accordance with the rules of competitive rights. In December 2018, the General's review of a report to the General for the Control of Fishing Institutes, where it was thought that there would be some improvements. As indicated in the report, this is part of the work. In March 2019, I appointed a project manager for improved fish control. At the same time, a group of consultations was set up with representatives of all councils at the General, institutions, and principal stakeholders in the fishing grounds. A report published in the June 2020 task management report, entitled Improved Fishing Resource Monitoring, deals mainly with permission for decision-making to fish management, access to electronic monitoring and the rules on fishing management of maximum resources share. The bill was employed at the Department of Employment and Development in collaboration with institutions, stakeholders and the public. Now, I'm going to step toward the individual components of the bill. It is suggested that a complete substantial anti-fishing system be established to provide the same authority to respond to violations of the law. First, it is suggested that fishing clinics be allowed to place administrative fines on owners or fishing vessels and the weighed Marketing Authorisation Holder of 25,000. Up to 50 million. K. Decisions on the sum of fines are set out in the law regarding the quality of Fishing Room. Second, there is the obligation to change the terms of the proposals that recommend the application of permission by the Fishing Room in a way that allows it to take such measures, which is logical from new sources for the stress of government fines. When it is assumed that it will depend on the nature and extent of the offense, on the basis of each occasion, on whether the premise is valid, on administrative fines, or on the following cases, both are used concomitantly. If you are a fish company, consider this on a case by case basis whether or not the best repairs are needed to achieve the desired effect and to avoid going beyond the need to reach the target. Thus, if the first fracture is considered to be insignificant, the Fish Room will be able to complete the case in agreement and fall from the court of application. Third, it is suggested that the offense be investigated in a case of criminality, with the exception of a dear Fishing Room or a National Guard. It is suggested that if an offense is considered to be major, as stated in the bill, it should be referred to the police. Any violation of the law of both government fines and penalties is to be determined by Fishing Room and National Guard whether the case should be reported to the police or ended by a administrative decision at the Fish Lab. So they expect a particular conversation between these institutions to ensure that comparable cases will receive comparable treatment. Fourth, it is suggested that legal action be made to recommend that the clearance of the Fish Room for Permission or for the pressures of government fines fall down after five years of completion of the law code, as well as the equivalent of judicial legislation and average - time perspectives. Fifth, it is suggested that, in certain cases, a fish parlor should be allowed to make a date for anyone who neglects to provide the information required by the Agency according to the legal requirements. The more reliable sources of Fish Service are then expected to collect a day's fines, and sixthly, the warrants of the Fish Room are proposed to provide official administrative decisions relating to violations of the fishing legislation in order to increase the transparency and prowesss of the Agency's activities. The bill then suggests that the resources of the Fish Room to conduct electronic surveillance will be promoted. First, it has access to the Fish Service to information generated by e - mail monitoring on the European Union. Second, there is the monitoring of controlled, flying air sets by means of recording equipment and other equipment that can collect information. Third, the smartphone program or electronic registries are recommended, and fourth, a trial project on camera monitoring on fishing vessels is recommended in 2022. The bill strives to observe the rules of personal protection and a moderate measure of action on electronic surveillance. This also points to adjustments to regulations 13 and 14. track No. 116/2006, on the management of fish, which has to do with the definition of related sources and actual administrations in the implementation of maximum power sectors. First of all, the Agency has a more advanced sources to call for any information and data necessary by the Agency to evaluate the maximum resources. Second, the Fish Service is given permission to cooperate and request information and data from other institutions as to whether they are linked. Third, the Fish Office shall provide information on the possession of the 30 largest resources of the Member States and the 30 largest panels of the labour markets on their web. At the determination of the term real control, which has not been defined in the fish - control laws before, it remains based on the assessment of the Fish Office and on whether the maximum power department is reached but the definitions and terms are brought into harmony with competitive legislation so that the institutions have similar sources to their surveillance and can cooperate with them, although the goals of law are not the same. Emphasis is on the real position of a person to have authority over others. What conditions exist is not a major matter but a broad definition of the term. A respectable president. I've traced the main points of this bill, and I'd like to refer to the series of articles that follow, which contains a detailed discussion on its contents. After a discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to a 2nd. ... andwhat. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u123	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the speech. I can't help but celebrate the fact that this bill has been released. Although I haven't seen it or read it, it seems to me that there's something there that is there to help, and it makes Fishing Room more possible to take care of its vital role. However, I notice, Mr. President, that the change of 13. a law on fishing management is not the same as the one proposed by a project manager who made his proposals right at the beginning of 2020, if I recall correctly, on how it would be best to establish a cross-border definition. I want to pray to the highest. Secretary of the sea to remember it also with me how the proposal was for a change of 13. The law on the bill that went on consultation last year. If I've just noticed, the suggestion for a change in the article as it is in the bill we're discussing here except on the bill that was being discussed. The highest. A minister will review this and explain why the article reads as it reads in the bill we discuss here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u124	A respectable president. Yes, I agree with that. A senator that there are many benefits in the bill here from the current legal environment, especially with regard to what it is about, what I'm going to say, years of complaint about Fishing Room, Fishing Control, that there is a lack of a reasonable definition of real authority and related sources, to get the definition that would be possible to work on. Like what? I'm sure a senator remembers as much as I was fully aware in a State Review report that it was a priority to try to arrange for this concept to be defined. And that's what we're going to do. The committee, for good. A senator mentioned, arrived at that conclusion, and made a suggestion for what was going on in his consultation, that's the exact luxury of it. A senator, about a much more precise interpretation of the individual components of the network that we are not filming on the existing bill. We, however, have the defined term "real control', here with two special new paragraphs that will be added to 13. Since we are actually identifying and giving the fishing watch much more guidance on how to understand the term "real control" and "actual control' as we look to the word in part - of - society rights. Our findings in the Ministry after all this time, and after this discussion, it was living in this suit so that it would be fundamental to the whole evaluation that our surveillance agencies should put into place the possibility of having the authority real and these connections. So it was our decision to settle the matter in the way it appeared here in the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u125	Mr. President. I hope so. The job committee carefully reviews these changes, for as I read the lyrics of the Law, they are still in a highly estimating process. It would be much better to keep things clear, as the project manager suggested, and to look for a carpenter with financial laws. There are the examples, and it is easy to apply them. So, I think, Mr. President, we have to make some changes in this article and hope that it will. A professional health committee examined it carefully. But I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of whether he believes that this will continue to be expected to be a majority property in order to be considered related to someone, so that you can have or have control over 12% of the quathane or money, and then you can have 49.9% in all other companies that have it. Thus, in this important industry, where our resources are used, the authority and support may actually become enormous. If not, it would have been better to aim at 25%, which is a definition of real owners, and which is also information available to the public and standards that have been recently adopted by law, e.g. About money?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u126	A respectable president. The question is, Do I think the current legal environment will work? Yeah, I think it works. It contains peaks that have, in fact, been debated since they were placed. The problem we were dealing with in the work that leads to the bill being presented here is because our surveillance agency, Fish Room, didn't think they had enough clear definitions of what they should do to keep the company in mind of the law. That's what we're trying to explain here. Through this work, we have had very close and good cooperation with those who work in these matters, both the Fish Service, the feds, the ballrooms, and the Contestants. We can even see it. in the comments that the changes presented here are considered as a great improvement. However, there is an entirely different debate that would be appropriate for us to take if we have this percentage and the share to 12%, or the lower to the hookpower system, or that would be 49%. We've been trying to adjust the aspect of the matter as outlined in the National Reconclusions to the rules and criteria of a competitive market, we've been trying to adjust the surveillance of the 17th Article. Their law. I believe, as the bill is done, it can, of course, work. But I agree wholeheartedly with it. A professional professional official needs to review the points she made here as a subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u127	Mr. President. First, I'd like to say that this is a very important bill, a bill that we've been waiting for, and I think that the work ahead of us at a job committee -- I hope the professional committee takes this bill and puts it first and we get a good look at it and we have the opportunity to put forward the changes we feel we need and dispense before this council ends. There's a setting for monitoring the fishing resource, and the management has not been good enough. I'm sorry, but it seems to me that there are some problems on this bill that I am celebrating, even though it has been presented. But we have the opportunity to make some adjustments and to improve the situation. It was this way, President, that in the fall of 2017, the news show launched with a report on a evaporation event, including the beginning of the year 2017. interview the head of the Fishing Room in that show. There, a former officer pointed out that it was just so that a fish lab could not perform its legal surveillance role. Of course, it was very serious that this was the case for this important surveillance agency, so I wrote a request and submitted it to the General Assembly, along with other members of the Parliament, that a government review would make an assessment of the activities of the Fishing Room and the savings she had to perform her legal role. In turn, a government review returned 2018 a fine report continued to be carried out on the top of the Management Board. Minister. I was allowed to be on that project manager, and it was very practical, and there we received information that will be useful to this work. I'd like to take a few words out of a state reexamination report that discuss linked contacts. One of the things we need to be careful, as we talked about earlier in reply, is coming up on 13, 14. the law on the control of fishing and on the linking between sources and what we call real authority. A report by the President's permission says: The Agency feels that the Agency has met its monitoring obligation by means of the collection of resources. She believes that the employment and innovation services have shown efforts to support the Agency in monitoring but that these efforts did not lead to the necessary changes to Article 13. legal about the control of fishing. On January 18, 2016, the office of marine soil and fish farmers in the employment and innovation services of marine eco-efficiency stated that at a meeting with Fish Lab on December 14, 2015, the Agency no longer carried out a procedure designed to ensure specific implementation of Article 13 and 14. legal about the control of fishing. A few years ago, the Agency's lawyers would have concluded that Article 13. The law on the in-laws and the real authority would, in fact, be impregnable. In addition, the staff of the Fisher Service would have reported this orally, and a fishing manager would have made a similar comparison for the so - called Syndicate on a review of the Law on Fishing Control in 2010. [...] According to Public Review, efforts by personnel can be traced to define the terms'species' and'real control' back over a more than a decade. Of course, it's just a scandal, let me say, that there's no way of resorting to measures that could be carried out in paragraphs 13 and 14. the laws and all these years had to pass until the bill came up on these subjects. I want to, Mr. President, point to a bill I am the first member of the council, and I'm here before the council, but I'm not allowed to get on a schedule, which is exactly about these articles, Article 13, and paragraph 14. ... intheSubject of Fishing. I'll let me go over the report at the time I have here. The bill suggests changes in fish control laws, as I said before, about linked parties and real authority. The bill, and now I'm talking about my bill, not my bill. Minister, aims to implement the Commission's proposal for improved control of the fish resources produced by the Management Board to the marine and agricultural ministers on December 30, 2019. [[Up front.]] Topical management included ... to respond to information provided by the Directorate-Environment Board on the Control of Fish Service, which is responsible for the integration of markets, but when I wrote this bill and this report was highest. Minister hasn't given up the bill we're discussing here. 13th. a law on the maximum resources of fishing vessels owned by individuals, persons, or lawyers, or owned by linked parties, is discussed. Since the first legalization of maximum resources, the labor share has become a fiscal compression and is now going to ten of the largest power companies in the country, with more than half the interest share. At the same time, marine sources have declined rapidly. The fishing year 2005/2006, which had decreased to 382 in 2019, was 946 at the beginning of the fishing year. The definition of the term 'authority-related persons' shows that members are linked directly or indirectly to a higher proportion of capital or stock of the other person or have a greater proportion of voting rights. Thus, one party will be able to take the maximum license of the labor sector according to Article 1. 13th g., but in addition, up to 49. 99% share in other enterprises which carry sector share under law. It is evident that such ownership is contrary to the laws' aims as well as to which the definition is inconsistent with the definition of real owners under the law on the control of money theft and terrorist funding, No. 140/2018. According to that law, it counts. to a real owner who actually owns or operates a law by direct or indirect ownership of more than 25% of the legislator, has more than 25% voting rights or is considered to have other authority over the legislators. The difference between the definition of property connections by the fish - control laws and the money -sustaining laws and terrorist finances is ambiguous, and a person can be considered to be a real owner of the law without even considered a person's involvement in the fish - control laws. The Commission's proposal to improve the control of fish resources is to suggest a change in the definition of the terms of the terms'species' and'real control' in order to achieve more effective monitoring of the rules of maximum resources departments. A report by the People's Research on Fish Control reports that, despite evidence of such links as to actual authority, fishing management was not easy to find. The basis for the definition of linked parties to couples, partners and their children and the fact that certain administrative relationships between enterprises were deemed to be linked, unless it was proven to be the opposite. Mr. President. That's the definition missing in the bill at the highest level. A minister spoke earlier. In addition, the task force suggested that what would be defined as a real government, and that people who were employing more than 6% of the labor department or 2.5% of the hook sector should be informed to report to the Marine Office a planned fusion, to buy a partner who was in charge of a stock department or to buy a share. The Fish Office agreed to accept such a provision would be a prerequisite for fusion or to buy a partner or share in it, and it would not be implemented until it had been approved by the Fishing Room. The bill to which I am the first carrier has suggested changes to the definition of the term '-related persons' in the Law on Fish Control. For section 1. 4 mg. The current legislation requires that persons be linked as one party, an individual or the attorney, on a direct or indirectly more part of the stock or stock of the other person, or has a share of the voting rights. As I said before, we'll put this bill to the Shippings for this thing to go down to 25%. It is very simple for a Fish Lab to monitor this if a real owner is just as defined by the law, and the General has approved it in 2018. If the object is twenty-five percent of what you have in a business or a partner, you're a real owner. At the same time, you should be counted as an associate. It will blow so hard that you are counted by the law of real owner, but according to the law on fishing, you are not linked to a person. If so, you need much more. This interpretation and this puzzle will result in compression in this article, which is not desirable. In this country, several projects are so large that they are extending their breath into a number of other sectors, and the danger has been noted many times, that once companies have become so big and have such an impact in society, they have become too powerful. That's why we should work against the compression, keep things clear, keep things clear about how we want to be treated, and take care of our resources, and work against compression as soon as we defend the country's inhabited by a major disturbance, because when it comes to weddings and sales, we know exactly what the cost of making companies might be. It is the marine settlements that carry the cost while making a profit on the economy. Of course, the amount of money is good, and it comes back, but it needs to be limited. They try to do the bill we're discussing here, but I reiterate that there's something to explain. a law on the control of fishing much better than is done in the bill at the highest level. A minister spoke earlier. But once again, I say, I'm glad we have an opportunity to discuss this important matter, which was in regard to fishing for our entire resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u128	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a synopsis of a revised national planning policy. The call is for a national planning policy in planning, No. 123/2010, which includes a consistent national planning policy until 12 years of age. A first approved national policy was adopted at the Council of 2016. An environmental policy includes four activities; an organization in Iceland's central height, rural organization, housing patterns and distributions based and organization in marine and coastal areas. In 2018, I assigned a agency to start work on a reevaluation of policy, stressing that a closer policy would be developed in climate, landscapes, and public health. The Agency was also commissioned to review the part of national planning policy on marine and coastal systems. The proposal presented here is based on the factors that I have highlighted and includes an appendix at the current national planning policy of 2015How226. The part of the proposal to promote climate is in line with the government action programme on climate matters, but G.11's action decides to set out policies and guidelines for rural development. The proposal was made by an organization in active collaboration with a national planning committee, rural communities and their organisations, public institutions and stakeholders and territory established. The proposal of the Agency was advertised and officially introduced as well as sent out by a number of parties. The Agency reviewed the reviews and comments received and gave their report on them to me along with a motion to revise national planning in March. The proposal to reevaluate regional planning and the above report also follows the environmental assessment of the proposal, as well as an overview of government policies and plans on organizational matters. The proposal remains based on important guides of current policy but is that organization contributes to sustainable development, is flexible and contributes towards social and environmental changes and quality of life as well as to the competitiveness of the whole and individual parts of the country. It is suggested that three new chapters will be added to the policy of the above - mentioned emphasises and the chapters entitled Climate - related Organization, Standard and Regional Protection, and Health and Land Use. The proposed policy in a new section following the events we are on all topics of current national planning and are intended to deepen and implement it further. The chapters are also intertwined in various ways. Certain organizational ideas that produce a variety of benefits are therefore repeated, on the contrary. These include the organizational concept of the 20 - minute town or the neighborhood that appeared in all the new chapters. The focus on green wood is also a transvestite in the motion, which may bring benefits to such structures in many areas, including to improve resistance to the consequences of climate change, improve and enhance the environment, and contribute to greater physical activity and improved health. I emphasize the importance of considering and interpreting the policy presented in the proposal as a whole, as well as that which should be interpreted in the light of current national planning policies. The development of rural society also needs to integrate its objective and seek ways to achieve multiple benefits by the same procedure. A revised policy is also proposed to add available planning policies to marine and coastal areas a proposal to begin working on coastal areas of the Eyjafjörður and to the Shivering Manor following the ongoing work on the design of Western and Eastern Europe. In addition, the focus of the policy is determined by the new laws on marine and coastal systems. The proposal for the new territory is based on information received by the Organization. There is a wide range of activities and use, interest and plans for further resource use, as well as high and increasing traffic in the areas. These factors, along with others, call for an Eyjafjörður coastal organization and a Shiverpool. In each chapter of this suggestion, you will first set out one higher goal for each chapter and then provide more detailed targets on individual components. The chief goal of a chapter on climate - based organization is that organization contributes to a lack of carbon and to the development of resistance based and community to the consequences of climate change. Climate is a vast array of paintings that stretch into most areas of society. Clearly, the climate problem calls for changes in our system and rethinking of our environment and infrastructure. There is a need for a revolution in the use of transport energy and measures that provide the basis for climate-based behavior, including changes in travel and consumption practices. At the same time, society needs to be prepared for climate change, protecting settlements and social infrastructure against its consequences. Strategies and organizational measures can contribute in various ways to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and to increased carbon binding. In addition, organization may include action to cope with the effects of climate change, such as rising sea level. Such measures need to be pooled and harmonised with the aim that these measures do not adversely influence community adaptability and vice versa. To achieve target targets, including the non-carbon target, climate targets are key to integrating policy integration and planning in as many areas as possible to become integrated into economic and social development. The defined target of a section on local development and landscape protection is that the organization will maintain and enhance the quality of landscapes and nature and communities. A landscape consists of both natural and cultural factors and our perception of them. Clearly, man - made design and change in land use can affect landscapes in different ways. For example, the structure and forestry can block large structures of vision, such as high - power lines and windmills, can change the appearance of areas. Similarly, homes, streets, roads, rural areas, and outdoor roads may be such that people have an opportunity to perceive and gain a new view of their territory. It is important that planning is used to ensure that the location and implementation of new workers and the building of the maximum opportunity to preserve the diversity and valuable landscapes of Iceland, such as uninhabited landscapes and culturally relevant habitats. More than that, it is important to use planning to reinvent human life through careful and appropriate implementation on a local and public structure. In a new chapter on health and land use, the target is that organization contributes to good health and well - being. The origin of modern planning around the turn of 1900 can include: Based on the emphasis of planning pioneers at that time on health reform. This was especially related to people's dwellings, urban and urban air quality, access to clean water, and sewage disposal. In recent years, attention has again, increasingly, been directed toward the influence of a organization on human health. Then there's even. See how an arrangement can encourage and help an outdoor and daily movement. Also, how, by exporting eutrophication and public pride can contribute to well - being and opportunities to cohesion, as well as to ensure a healthy environment. Human and natural environment affect health in many ways. The development of human health and democracies gives us reason to consider how to use planning and land use to promote all aspects of health. A worldwide crowning virus and action needed to be taken because of it have been further reminded of the importance of ensuring good walking and riding conditions and access to good and varied housework and natural habitats. The aim of a revised national structure policy is to be followed by measures or means intended to support the implementation of the target. On one hand, it is a recommendation and action directed to a rural group to work in their strategy. However, there are various government projects that are involved in the implementation and implementation of policy. This may be a guide or development project. Work on policy forwarding projects calls for consultation and cooperation of recruitment, institutions, rural partners, and reports of other parties. As an example of rural recommendations, there are recommendations on the development of a climate - related organization policy in the main structure and after events in the regional structure, aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions and intensification with a hydrocarbonization factor, as well as the result of climate change adaptation policies. At the same time, country construction and farming arrangements take into account the quality of the landscape. It is also expected that during the development of rural society, there will be an effort to create a wholesome environment that promotes a healthy way of life, allowing for movement, refreshment, and communication. As a result of deforestation and deportation, it will be safe to ensure that equality, diversity, security, and access to different groups. As an example of other government projects in this arrangement, there are a number of organizational guidelines, including on climate-related planning and assessments of the climate-related impacts of planning and other programmes, climate-friendly land use, adaptation to climate change in infrastructure, localisation, landscape quality and landscape protection, urban and street design and policy and planning objectives of the use of wind energy with regard to landscapes. As you can see, national planning is primarily carried out through the development of rural society. National planning, however, also affects government plans on national level that have to do with land use and development. It is expected that during the shape of such estimates, the emphasis is being made on national policy. This may refer to plans such as planning, strategy, framework, and transport, for example. V.E.G. President. As climate change in 2019 was legalized, the European Commission, the government agencies, the State's majority - owned firms, and rural groups were to set up climate policies with defined targets for shutdown in greenhouse gas emissions and carbon balances of their activities. This conjugal proposal suggests that a community should form a vision and a policy facing an organization, thus dealing with the climate issues on a larger scale. By doing this, we develop an organizational politics in Iceland, where the State has the responsibility to provide and perform diagnostics and instructions for rural society, but they provide climate-based planning. In my opinion, this is a very important step in climate and planning in Iceland. In addition to climate, there are some factors that have to do with landscapes and public health that are also important in developing organization in the 21st century. In effect, there is much agreement between these three key factors of the proposal and it is sufficient to mention the idea of a 20 - minute town or the neighborhood that serves at the same time the goals of improving human health taking into account the quality of the landscape and its preservation. A respectable president. Here I have proposed a basic proposal for a resolution on a revised national planning policy and suggest that the proposal be followed by a previous discussion referred to. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u129	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of the story and contribution of this matter. This proposal reflects a great deal on the importance of organizational matters, not just the community we live in today, but the community we will live with in many decades, and how much they weigh to fight for climate change. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to one point here in chapter 5 of the proposal, to evaluate the climate impacts of planning and other government plans. This refers to the government's objective that larger government plans will be determined by climate targets, objectives that the government has not achieved to this point, e.g. For the transport programmes that have been submitted here at a meeting, which is very unfortunate but look to a better way to go now, at the end of the term. I would like to ask: What tool is being provided here to make sure that it is? The report puts it this way, for example. While referring to the transport program, groundwork, and country plan for foresting, in the motion itself, I see to it that I am not suggested to change the laws in this regard. How is this other good aim to be extended?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u130	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much for this answer. I know we share opinions on these issues on the importance of planning in terms of climate. Hv. A senator asks what tools are involved in the use of food based on climate. The tools here designed to shape include The direction that the Organization will set up in this regard. The assessment of the environmental impacts of climate change is also clearly under way, and it needs to be written in more carefully and specifically by regulations, ensuring that climate projects are looked into place. Then it is assumed that at this convention we are making these recommendations to the local government, so this may be one of the major factors in trying to evaluate plans from climate matters, which are in my opinion very important and me and why. A senator shares that view.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u131	Mr. President. Its guidelines are not necessarily the strongest tool the government has in the toolbox. The direction of the Agency is, I'll tell you, not a sure way to achieve the goal that all planning programs at the level of the government will be determined by climate change. So I'm just asking for a transport plan, there are special laws on it that reveal the goals that this plan needs to achieve. It would be easy to include the climate goals, that there will be only clear goals in those laws. I'd like to know if this was discussed between the consultants because the objective of the Environment Ministry, as reflected in the Guidelines of the Organization, will not be maintained in a transport program that is supported by another Ministry unless we insist on rules and generally legal matters. V.E.G. A minister here points to the dramatic situation that this has been unclear whether the environmental impact of the project should include assessments of the impact on climate and, indeed, glad that there is an improvement with a bill on the program here tonight. However, this is of interest in the response of a travel minister when asked if it was not a poor mistake to have missed a climate assessment of transport, when he recommended it here at the conference, and he referred to an assessment of the environmental impact of the programmes, but according to Environment and Resource Ministers, laws would need to be changed to cover climate. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Once again, this beautiful purpose of the government's covenant to assess all the larger plans of the State will be broken out. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u132	V.E.G. President. I think there's some kind of misunderstanding. A senator that so far has not taken over the environmental assessment of climate, whether the environmental food plan is viewed or carried out. This is, of course, one of the considerations, one of which is likely to be carried out in a transport program because it depends on the environmental impact of the programmes. This is not only the Guideline of the Organization but also the provision of environmental assessments for these factors. What I referred to, and maybe not clear enough before, when I mentioned that specific regulations based on the law on the assessment of environmental impacts of action and estimates should be addressed exactly as to whether there is no doubt any evidence to indicate the impact on climate. There's a job going on at the Ministry and it's in progress. Of course, I do not agree that the government's purpose is to evaluate plans based on climate goals. This has been done in big matters, and we are, for example, in many ways. with this policy, to create a clearer perspective on other policies. With a national policy, the lines are being set for other policies, such as this one, e.g. for transport, structure, system plan and so on.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u133	A respectable president. I'm gonna start by thanking the highest. Minister for this donation and his speech. I'm sorry to admit that I haven't really read it through a bar but more so as to scan it. I'm gonna start by saying that I really enjoy the approach on climate issues and how important they are. Then I will specifically list the picture on page 20. 24 Our frequent time spent less, very urgent, and much less emissions are said to be needed. Then we talk about more binding, which is also important, and it's in the table. Besides, adjustments are important to change, and it's important to have it come in. It has to be right there, because there are so many things in our organizational affairs that we have to think about, living in the north, where the changes are turning into such a gigantian. It's very important. The table on page 24. 36 unmistakably shows how much this climate can affect Iceland, all our buildings, our lives. So I want to celebrate this especially. This is precisely what we need to stress during our discussion. On the other hand, what I wanted to ask is my special hobby, I've talked all the time about it, and I also did it before going to the council because I worked for so long on the community planning. I would have wanted to see national planning that there were some basic structures attached down there. This means that national planning should be something of a regional structure, and then the main structure of the rural communities, and that what we talk about as shallow wood that goes between rural communities - we can talk about roads, important electrical lines, or shelters, even a pilot's fortress or harbor construction - is stuck in a national planning policy. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Has this idea or approach not been applied to work in a national policy?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u134	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. Hv. A senator introduces things that I find in itself during a long discussion. Perhaps we've already discussed whether or not there are some basics that we have been exposed to, such as why. In fact, a senator mentioned, roads, electric lines, and so forth, should actually give a minimum further statement by the State or even further, sometimes discussed, that they should be simply under the administrative authority of the State. This is a smell of the discussion. Regarding this discussion in connection with the development of a revised national planning policy, it was not discussed specifically so as to know. At any rate, she was not informed that she should handle these assignments. It was to be taken and addressed primarily to climate impacts, assessments of the climate impacts of planning plans, recommendations to the rural community to evaluate it, and landscapes and public health and well - being. So the answer is that this time it wasn't part of this job.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u135	A respectable president. It's not the first time I discuss it here, of course. I'm going to reiterate that I find things really good in this course, but I might be looking at what I feel is missing. I want them to point it to what? Environmental and Transport Committee to consider these factors only. We've discussed it here in a number of contexts, such as the highest. A minister comes in, it is a regular matter of independence, and it is a question of independence from the local community. But it's just that it's so complicated when construction crosses these lines between rural society. Even if the river is still not deeper, it is shocking that we often make bad progress in securing groundwork. Looks like we've created a system that'll keep it between us forever. Now I'm going to ask those who will obey and honor a president not to misunderstand the importance of assessing the environmental impact of a project and that it is fully implemented. But in organizational matters, we have really been able to build indefinitely around the work of order. So my inspection has become that it's a system that works for the system and around the system and that the people have a little forgotten about it. Therefore, this may be more encouraging to us to focus on the important challenges we have here in this local organization as the next step is to see whether it is simply not reasonable to have specific bases specified in a regional organization. I have no doubt that not everyone would agree, and we could probably argue about it for a while. But perhaps it would be better to put forth such an effort once and to ensure these entrances rather than deal with them each time in such situations.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u136	V.E.G. President. I am prepared to take that discussion as a matter of course. A senator brings up basics on better occasions. There is even something that needs to be considered in whole. I'd like to point out my bill on the change in planning laws before the council where the subject of the electric line is being set in just another form, i.e. with a special committee representing the local community that will pass through the line and the government representative, i.e. An organization that leads them to work. I don't think it's wrong to see how it makes itself, it'll be a bill to the law, i.e. to have the arrangement in order to do so. But I don't think it's wise to make these changes too fast. In general, I'd like to say that I think it's absolutely important that we secure the environmental protection when it comes to the projects involved, changes in organization, and so forth. In the bill on the program below, we are making specific streamlined and streamlined factors that are involved in environmental assessments, especially the environmental assessments of action, without participating in the right of the public's right to take part in the process of environmental assessment. I think we can do a lot better in getting it up to simple things, but we also have to make sure it doesn't violate environmental protection and protection goals. That's a key to my mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u137	V.E.G. President. I recommend here for bill to correct the change in the protection and energy efficiency laws, No. 48/2011, for the treatment of activation options in wind power. The implementation of this bill is in accordance with the government's administration Treaty, which requires the setting of anti- wind power laws as well as the cooperation of local authorities with guidelines for organizational decisions and licenses. As we all know, wind power as energy efficiency has been eroding in recent decades, and its share is taking place in the world's ever - increasing energy supply. Here has not yet been the rise of large winds of wind, but some windmills have been developed in experimental fashion. Clearly, the windy Iceland seems to be particularly suitable for the operation of such workers and is already starting formal preparations for any such wind plants. In my opinion, it was clear to the council's will with a sentence on a protection and energy efficiency programme, No. 48/2011, i.e. for a frame plan, that activation options such as wind power fell and should fall under the law in conjunction with geologic and hydropower. A greater proportion of the current employment committee, which had the issues of a frame design for treatment, made time their own initiatives to change the management bill at the highest level. the local industrial Minister to ensure that energy options at that time, such as wind power for electricity production, would also fall under a framework such as the traditional energy benefits, temperatures, and hydropowers, would be equal to or greater than the activation initiatives of 10 MW. These proposals for changing the bill on the basis of the then industrial committee were adopted at the council with the approved legislation on the protection and energy efficiency programme. In accordance with this understanding, the task management of the Framework Programme has dealt with the activation initiative in wind energy in both the 3rd and 4th stages of the protection and energy efficiency programme. However, while there is no doubt that wind energy sources are subject to the protection and energy efficiency laws or frameworks, it is evident that the current terms on the treatment and the methodological framework may be adjusted more closely to these specific energy options because of its uniqueness in relation to other more advanced energy options. The first element is that this resource, unlike any other energy, is essentially inexhaustible and is limited by wind energy generation remains the land space available. The wind is not as local energy option as are other more traditional activation options; it can be used in many areas where land space is present. In general, wind power plants require less priming times than the more traditional energy resources available here and are much quicker to build such structures. In many cases, wind power plants have to be considered less irreversible than conventional energy, if indicated. Thus, the use of wind energy in a designated region does not provide the hands of future generations as strongly as it is often in the conventional energy use. Then there is the rapid growth of the efficiency of wind energy. As a result of technological development and its interest in practicality, the country is growing in and around the country. Implementing single-scale cigars in Iceland for experimental purposes has been beyond expectations and the national and weather conditions ideal for the innovation of the local wind power. Since wind power activation options are not as relevant to specific sites as traditional activation measures, it gives governments an important opportunity to shape official policies on where to place such activities and where not, to try to minimize the negative environmental impacts of this activity. By the end of 2018, it was decided to appoint a special group of three advisers for further consideration and work to develop suggestions on how to manage the affairs of wind energy as an alternative to energy use in this country. In the group, representatives of the Environment and Resource Ministry, the Department of Employment and Development, as well as the Department of Transport and Division. In accordance with the proposals of the task force, the work group is expected to set up individual land areas for the use of wind energy in specific government policies. These policies are available in Congress No. 707, which is a proposal for action on the location of wind power organisms in Iceland's landscape and nature, and I measure below. So these two matters are, in fact, all alone, expected in the bill that if the bill is approved, the law will not be carried out until the above proposals for Congress have been adopted here at the council. In addition to the proposal for a category of land conventions, there is an explanation for the main reasons that the task management Framework Programme needs to follow on-line opinions and assessments of the activation options of wind energy in land areas in so-called category 2 which are the only initiatives in wind energy that are to consider and evaluate for the task management of a Framework Programme and later secretary will be the law. V.E.G. President. The bill I recommend here suggests substantial changes in the laws on how to view and evaluate the activation options of wind energy compared with other activation options according to the guidelines in the framework. Key changes are as follows: It is expected in the bill that land will be stratified by certain adverse factors, which are expected to be considered for the evaluation of wind activation initiatives. This category will take place according to the guidelines laid out in the proposal for the interpretation here at the council. It is assumed that the activations of wind energy falling within the category 1 are not an option and that activation options, either partially or completely falling within such areas, will be turned away from their court treatments. It is therefore only an activation option that is in the category 2 region that will be considered and evaluated by the task management programme. However, if no activation option is given in Class 1 or Class 2, then it is expected to be in category 3 and treatment according to the guidelines on the Framework Programme is completed and we adopt general laws and procedures like this. In the bill it is expected that the project management of the Framework Programme would look at and value the unique activation of wind energy in class 2 areas based on policies, principles and guidelines presented in Congress resolution. Task management evaluations are based on the bill's opinion of the impact factors that are fundamental because the region is in the assigned category of countries but are not expected to be subject to other factors. The project management is expected to provide Ministers with a more reasoned review of the activation option within 18 weeks of the introduction of application and sufficient data. Due to the nature of the wind power, it is not expected in the bill that rural communities will be committed to adapting their plans to individual sources of wind energy, even if they are authorized by the laws of the Framework Programme. This means that while the activation of wind energy will be approved on the basis of the opinion and assessment under the framework of a local society, it is not mandatory to assume such activation options in its organization. This is a fundamental change from the current Framework Act. Again, the reason for this transformation is the unique nature of the wind energy as an energy option. It is not necessary to use it at a designated, specific location, such as the surface of the earth and water, but the resource must be used where it is located. On the contrary, the efficiency of wind power can take place almost everywhere, where wind use conditions and plenty of land are available. So the bill assumes that rural society has a much larger role and much more leeway in the implementation of wind energy within the country's limits than for other activation options in a frame plan and to look to various viewpoints and impact factors which are not expected to result in the evaluation and assessment within the framework schedule. In this relationship e.g. For example, consider the visual and audio effects of such activities on nearby and local populations, the effects on landscapes and landscapes within the rural community, the effects on travel and destinations of tourists, etc. The bill does not anticipate as much observation, assessment, and priorities of activation options as is expected for the hydropowers. Its reasons are still the nature of the wind's energy compared with the more traditional activation initiatives. They are far more local and more limited than wind - power costs. Achieving the use of these more conventional energy is generally accompanied by high levels of river and land water. In general, the country's waters have a high protection value in themselves, an important part of its nature. In addition, the protection value of unnoring lakes and land heat areas increases as more people are disturbed. The bill is based on the opinion and assessment of the task management programme being based on a review of the location of the activation option in relation to the classification of the country proposed for Congress resolution. The opinions and evaluations expected in the bill are based on the criteria behind the fact that the surrounding region is classified as a class 2. For example, if the activation option is in sector 2 because it is located in an important bird area, the task management role is to consider factors to influence birds when assessing the activation option rather than other factors. However, prophylaxis may be class 2 due to more than one factor, e.g. in that it is in important bird areas as well as where it is, for example. within 10 miles of a peace-installed area. The task management programme will then need to examine both of these factors in evaluating proposed activation options in wind power. In the bill it is expected that the project management will seek the assistance of the professional group or professional groups considered necessary by the task management board to evaluate the specific factors to be considered on the basis of opinions and assessments of individual activation options. It is also expected that she would present her decision publicly so that public, stakeholders, members of society, and other economists could come to comments on the matter. As the bill puts it, a project administration is expected to base its evaluation on the principles, impact factors, and guidelines found in proposals for action. In the bill it is thus assumed that the project management should follow the opinion and assessment of the activation option to suggest either that priming options be authorized or not authorized. When this evaluation of the project management is scheduled, it is assumed in the bill that the project manager sent his reasoned review of the activation initiative on the basis of his conclusion and future comments in the consultation process. The bill suggests that if a minister agrees with the logical review of the task management program that the activation option in a designated section 2 meets principles and guidelines in the synonym, such issues can be resolved by a management framework. This means that if the task management of the Framework and Minister is a step forward that the activation option meets the criteria set out in the synonym, a minister is permitted to formally establish that the activation option meets the criteria in this respect and that further treatments are thereby completed on the part of the framework plan, but we are required by law. This means that the activation option goes to organizational treatments of a rural society, will be evaluated for environmental impact, standard treatment for connections to the electrical power system, and the general practice expected in the law for such activities. Then it is permitted to proceed with the situation at this stage of the administration without the presence of the General, as must be done in the case of water efficiency and earth heat. The final assessment of the administrative level is therefore based on conditions, principles and guidelines that the General will hopefully agree to a proposal for a judicial hearing in relation to the bill. With such consent on the basis of the evaluation of the activation option, it must be concluded that there is a greater need for the Council to agree, as well as a unique source of energy in the form of a special synonym, according to standard energy measures. The matter may be difficult, however, if there is a situation where the task management of the Framework and Minister does not agree on whether a specific activation option meets the terms of Congress resolution or not. Clearly, the role of project managers Framework is to be professional adviser to evaluate activation initiatives, but its role is not to take independent administrative decisions in this respect. The part of the trial falls into the head of a minister who needs to make the final administrative decision on the basis of the bill and carry a administrative responsibility. It is therefore recommended that, in cases where project management and Ministers do not agree, the respective governments are not allowed to allow the use of wind power options within the region to become so relevant. However, the bill also provides a major change from existing law, which means that in cases where this recruiter can challenge the project. He can look to the facts of the project management or to a reasoned minister's decision and restore the priming option to the project management, e.g. thus adapting the activation option better to the comments observed if at any other time it is possible. It is also assumed in the bill that if the activation option is not accepted at the administrative level because project management and Ministers do not agree on whether the activation option meets the criteria or not, the activation provider may request that the activation option be implemented in the next protection and energy efficiency programme and therefore receive physical treatment at the General, such as the traditional activation initiatives. In the bill it is specifically assumed, as in general, for a protection and energy efficiency programme, that in the management of environmental ministers on energy activation initiatives, it should agree with the Minister on energy issues. Finally, I'd like to point out that according to the bill it is assumed that if the stepwise management of the Framework Programme finds that the activation option in wind energy is not in section 1 or 2 then the induction option is completed by the framework and that such activation options can be considered for general treatment in rural areas, in organizational management, the assessment of the environmental impact of the procedure, etc., such as already being crossed. V.E.G. President. Clearly, the subject under consideration is by no means undisputed. Many believe that the issue of wind power should be out of the framework and determined in accordance with general rules. Others feel that it is important that the issues of wind energy remain within the framework and should follow exactly the same rules and language treatments as the more conventional energy costs. The way this is proposed in the bill is based on the particular nature of the wind. It involves trying to set aside the most important and most valuable areas in the country, with regard to nature and cultural memory, while trying not to hinder such structures in other parts of the country. This includes developing a much larger role for decision-making of such activities within the country's limits than is expected in the current framework laws. If the bill is accepted, then it can also be assumed that the treatment period of these activation options will be significantly reduced from that which is now considered to be important considering that the time for preparation of these activation measures is generally much shorter than water activation and body heat. However, as in the bill, there is a lack of experience in the development of intensification initiatives in the land of wind power, even though such structure has taken place for decades abroad. So the bill suggests that if the bill becomes legal, they will be reviewed within four years, taking into account the experience of their performance. It is important that we gather and make use of the experience that will exist in connection with the further development of this national energy initiative and that it will be replaced within this relatively short period of time to re-evaluate and possibly improve the methodology we want to assess in energy efficiency. Then it is also my hope that with this bill, if by law, it may reduce the activation of hydropower and pollution. I'm special stressing that with this bill and the Senate resolution proposal provided by the bill, we're leaving an area to protect and which is not to be considered for the activations of the kind that has been described here. A respectable president. I've traced this bill's main subject and suggested that it be after the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u138	Mr. President. There is no need to get a proper board of license teams to build a wind - power plant in this country. So it's a timely bill, to be sure, but there's a few things I'd like to ask the Minister further on. They have appeared at earlier levels, in the reviews, so the minister has the opportunity to help us understand the facts of what the Ministry has decided on, but the council may want to respond differently. First of all, it's the size limit. Two. The bill is based on 10 MWs or more of the accumulated electrical power to conform to the law. I'm simply asking, isn't it a little high? Isn't that a bit much? If this were a single cigar, it would be three times the size of a Horgrimian, to guess. It would be seen quite widely and have great influence. I'm not necessarily wondering that we're gonna be a member of a professional group 2 to the fourth strategist of a framework program suggesting that there are no boundaries, that all windmills are simply a part of this process, regardless of size, but maybe just some lower limit, like 3 MW, mentioned in some comments. They're not little, either. You see, I'm afraid too high a limit could put us in the same situation as, for example. with hydro-engineers, all of a sudden, highly designed as 9.9 MW and just bloody large.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u139	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer and discussion. Yes, this is an important point on which we have entered, about the size limit, and may be part of an even larger discussion. I have discussed it many times in terms of the hydropower, where many times and times have come up with ideas of the 9◯9.5 or 9.9 MW activations, that it might be more reasonable to focus on the effects of such activation rather than on the 10 MW criteria that are rooted in the correction of environmental assessment. I mean, this may be part of that discussion. This was simply the decision not to make changes in this regard, to conform to the law as it is now, even though I agree with it. A senator thinks that this is one of the things we need to look to in the future. I think in most cases it may not necessarily be practical to go to less wind power plants than a 10 MW; in most cases it is considerably larger with more windmills; but certainly it could be an example of an attack on setting up one or two; they are now 2◯4 MW, and even up to 7409 MW of the largest, if I know it correctly. I guess I'll just let it go for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u140	A respectable president. It's a pleasure to be at the highest. Let's share our concerns that 10 MWs are too high. I wholeheartedly agree with him that it is more reasonable to aim for an effect than just the megawatts. If I recall, the first Sogs were well below 10 MW, but they had irreverent effects on the surrounding region, so we have many decades of history about the inducers that are small in megawatts but large in impact. One minister says that this is something to consider in the future, but we are in the present. We are here today to discuss a bill that looks exactly into that future. This is the box around projects that are intended to last a long time, and if it is more reasonable to aim for the effect rather than the installed force, such as the highest power. Minister says he wants to do it, so why don't you do it in the bill? There is no physical laws that say that there should be the same megascale control in wind energy as in water energy in a frame plan or that there should be the same megascale in the law on the assessment of environmental impact and the laws on the framework. These are all the songs we put here that can take into account the circumstances. If it is more reasonable to focus on the effects of installed wind plants rather than on the power produced there, why don't we do so here and now rather than in some barren future when the damage is done?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u141	V.E.G. President. In my opinion it simply needs further inspection and analysis if we are to take the steps we need to take. A senator speaking here, i.e. that we are more likely to focus on the effect than on a certain megawatt number, which is 10 MWs in this case. That step was simply not taken here. I thought it was more important to present the case, present this frame, with this extra - wind control over the wind, because it was absolutely necessary to do so rather than delay it further by attacking this point. It's just a decision you have to make when it comes to such a procedure. Of course, it is simple to change the size limit if you want to have a size limit. You can say 5 instead of 10 or 15 instead of 10. However, it is not quite as simple to plan to aim for the effects, since it requires that we examine what is an acceptable effect not to go into a frame plan. In some respects, however, we may still be following in that direction by means of the bill and the synonym that are here considered because we look at just some factors that affect certain areas that fall into this category. And maybe it's the beginning of what we're talking about here, but it's later time to think about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u142	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend an interpretation of the location of wind-energy organisms in Iceland's landscape and nature. As I came into my speech on bill to legalize the law of a protection and energy efficiency programme here, it will be presented in the 1st quarter. Section 4. The bill suggests that the Minister of Environment and Resources, together with the Minister of Energy, is expected to propose a judicial resolution for the location of wind plants in the landscape and the nature of Iceland where policies, principles and guidelines should be identified in the implementation of wind energy land use. Therefore, in this proposal for a resolution which I recommend here, there is a suggestion that the government's policy on the location of wind-storm in accordance with the above-mentioned directives. The proposal, in accordance with the bill, indicates that land areas will be divided into three categories in relation to wind energy efficiency. First, Group 1: Land area where all uses of wind will be prohibited. Group 2: A region that may in general be considered sensitive with regard to the practicality of wind energy, but since such structure can be considered to be on the basis of an assessment and assessment of a projection board. Group 3: Country area not within category 1 or category 2. The bill recommends that its requirements be obtained when valid, however, when proposals for action should be made in which policies, principles and guidelines for the implementation of wind power in the land have been adopted. As suggested by the proposal, the division of the country into groups proposed in part based on the Lab's Lab's work, which has expertise in windpower issues both here and abroad, was in preparation for a report. The experts set up various information and information on the impact factors that affect land systems. This work continued to be replaced by the Ministry in the shape of the final category of land areas and the definition of policies, principles and guidelines as reflected in the proposal. ' The diagnostic work that took place in the processing of the proposal was done in cooperation with various strategists and led to the classification of land by the following factors; the peaceful and natural protection programmes and regions, the Ramsar areas, the region of the UNESCO World Memorial, and areas that have been designated in the list, important bird areas, the well- and neighboring areas of water protection, the peace-lit culture, areas that have special protection at 61 g. Law on Nature Protection, No. 60/2013, uninhabited beyond and within the central and natural protection programmes. Clearly, most of the areas and factors listed above are fairly clear either in law or in other ways. The areas expected to fall under category 1 and 2 have also, in most cases, been carefully mapped by the institutions of the State. Map data on this category of the country are important tools for assessing and determining the location of the specific activation initiatives based on national classifications. However, there may also be a need to consult the source data or other underlying data on the areas listed in the above mentioned bill to correct changes in the protection and energy efficiency laws. Examples of such data are the national peace conditions associated with their peace descriptions in order to leave no doubt about geographic boundaries. Such primary data are priority over maps, since the site of the region is defined in such source data. Thus, in the above - mentioned bill, activation options in wind energy will always be facts in a certain way from the Work Programme Framework Management Board at the beginning of such treatments. As I've traced them, this proposal is based on the interpretation of three groups of territories, as suggested in the bill for changing law No. 48/2011. Group 1 is suggested to drop territories where all the development of wind power plants, under the protection and energy efficiency legislation, will be prohibited. In this category, the most important environmental value in the country falls, as is generally the most valuable territory in the country. This first includes a peace-installed region on Part A of the Nature Memorial Files. It includes areas that have been emancipated under nature protection laws and those which have been emancipated under separate laws. Second, there is a category 1 on the UNESCO World Memorial or that have been nominated on the registry. The areas now on the world calendar have already been declared nonviolent. However, certain areas have not been formally designated on the registry. Third, there are Ramsar territory, which are located in the international wetland file of the Ramsar Convention, which is a party in Iceland. This contract is designed to contribute to the protection of bird habitats in wetlands. The entire Ramsar area in this country has already been declared peaceful. Group 1 is suggested for the wilderness within the centre of Iceland's central highlands to be part of this category. As if I'd rather enter the following, it's suggested that the rest of the world fall into one category, depending on whether they are within the country of Iceland or not. As suggested by the proposal, war - torn deserts do not enjoy protection against practices that can disrupt the widest. I believe it is important to try to ensure the protection of the uninhabited areas of the central highlands for large - scale projects such as the efficiency of wind energy, since the last European area is one of the relatively unscathed areas. A fifth is a region on part B of the natural memory file or the nature-memployment programmes. This part of the nature calendar lists the areas of the country that have been approved here at the council in a form of a resolution to peace. Such a suggestion, however, is not yet available. A sixth is a well - and - neighboring area of water protection, and 7th, 1 is a source of peaceful culture. V.E.G. In my case, a president like me is already in the motion given here that the policy of the State will be clear about the areas I have considered that will under no circumstances be permitted to build a wind power plant in such places. However, in Cognition 2 there is a range of areas that may generally be considered sensitive with regard to the efficiency of wind energy, but where such structure can be considered according to the protection and energy efficiency laws. All proposed activation options within this category must be conducted according to the bill to the review and assessment of the task management programme on the basis of principles and guidelines presented in the proposal. These categories are as follows: First, it is a region within 10 miles of a non-violent region based on Part A or region of the B-section of the Natural Memory Index in Group 1. There are very different effects of wind energy activation in areas of this category, depending on their geographic limitations and the general or specific protection values of the region. The role of task management in the Framework Programme must therefore evaluate the impact of the proposed activation option on the objective and protection of the region. The second is the area of the C-section of nature mines, which can fall from organisms, ecosystems, soils, water or landscapes that have protection values and why there may be reason to protect but are not peace-enforced according to Part A of the Natural Memory, nor have been adopted in the implementation of the registry of its B-part. The role of the task management framework therefore needs to be determined by the location and system of activation of the option whether such an abnormality within the region will be accepted or not, or if such an interference can be minimized to be considered acceptable. Third, it is an area that enjoys special protection according to Article 61. Law on Nature Protection, No. 60/2013. Under this category, ecosystems and soils fall, which may vary considerably according to their nature and need for protection. It can be assumed that the respective ecosystems or soils will be affected some way by the construction of a wind plant, but such an effect may vary greatly. The role of task management in the Framework Programme will be as suggested by the proposal to assess the interference of this category due to planned implementation according to protection objectives of 2 and 3. the law on nature protection, protection values and protection needs of the region and on whether such disorders are considered acceptable, such as 61.g. The law. Among the factors that are suggested specifically to be seen is the lack of carbon - rich soils, such as swamps. Fourth, it is important bird areas, according to the diagnosis of Iceland's Natural Institute. These areas are a major factor in the evaluation of wind power activation initiatives. To assess a project management framework for activation options in important bird areas, this programme should evaluate the risk of flying, subheading, inhibiting main routes, and loss of habitats. Special attention should be given to birds with high or very high protection values known to pose a significant risk to manure. Some examples include a species of birds of prey, such as eagles and eagles. Fifth, uninhabited areas out of the centre of Iceland. As I came in earlier, the suggestion is that the wilderness within the middle of the country will fall into category 1 and will not be permitted to build such structures in those places. Despite government policy, it remains that a large uninhabited world must also be found outside the centre of Iceland's central population, it is suggested that the wilderness beyond the limits of the central highlands fall into category 2 and that the work programme should be viewed and considered. The sixth is a region of the nature protection programme 2004-◯2008 and 2009•2013. Both of these terms on nature protection programmes were adopted in the earlier laws on nature protection, No. 44/1999. Many of the areas on nature protection programme have already been declared nonviolent. Some of these areas, however, have not yet been declared nonviolent. For this reason, there may be a number of reasons to consider further during the evaluation of the programme management initiatives in this category. V.E.G. As I've made progress in my case, the proposal in this suggests that the areas I've listed in Group 1 or Class 2 are the areas that are crucial to the determination of the location of the activations of wind energy in terms of the Law on Framework. In the bill for changing the Framework Act and in this motion, it is assumed that the areas of the country that do not fit either of these two groups will fall under section 3. Ignition that the activation option of wind power falls under that category then ends with the frame management process for that activation option. Thus, such activation measures can take place in routine activities of rural society and other organisations in accordance with local law, organizational management, environmental impact assessments, and so on. As I studied in my talk on bill to change the frame plan law, there is not much experience in building the elements of wind power here, although such development has taken place for a long time abroad. So the bill expects a review of their material within the age of four with respect to performance experience. Of course, the same is true of this proposal for Congress if it is accepted. It is normal that the law will be reviewed with itself if it is approved. It is important that we gather and make use of the experience that will exist in connection with the further building of this energy and that it will be replaced within this relatively short period of time to re-evaluate and possibly improve the methodology that we want to assess in energy efficiency. In addition, our knowledge of nature and culture, especially landscapes, will increase and should lead to better decisions. A respectable president. I have presented the main subject of this suggestion, and I suggest that it be followed by this discussion referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u143	A respectable president. This is related to an answer in the bill recommended earlier than a new point, though. I'd like to ask the Minister to further definitions of the boundaries set here. A team two in the phase of the fourth straggle of the framework produced a subheading and criticized the boundaries that are withdrawn from peaceful-lit areas as the limit of the area where wind power power must not be built. The minister's suggestion is about 10 miles from a peace-installed territory, but the two professional groups say it's a bad idea. I appreciate it, Mr. President, when people speak in a clear way, and the strange thing they say is to talk about 10 miles and to put out a 40-mile radius from peaceful areas. The group does not say so because it is the group that has assessed the influence of wind power plants in the third stage of the framework and 4. The group says that windmills can be seen from as far as 60 miles [48 km] away and that, based on the evolution of technology, they are more likely to reach new wind mills and higher. That's why I'd like to ask the minister simply: "If the two professionals, the people who measure the effect of the continuum transfunctioner on tourism and outdoor, the people whom the minister referred to in his entropy speech, say it's absurd, why is it suggested to aim at 10 miles? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u144	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. That's right. A senator said that this was the attitude of a two - group professional in the process of reporting. This is because I think it may be possible to argue that the 10 miles over perhaps all the major effects of windmills, but certainly they are seen much farther, like wind mills. A senator mentioned, where the situation is, where landscapes are open and wide. This will be considered in a nine-mile radius around a peace-lit area. If it is a project manager's assessment that this is an unacceptable effect on the peace-reporting region, then it must conclude that there should not be an attack on the construction of windmills in those areas. It is also possible to deal with an executive's efforts to keep lower windmills closer to peace - related areas, as this results in less impact. If we're outside the 10 miles [10 km], if that area falls into category 3 but could fall into category 2 for any reason other than being in more than 10 miles [10 km] from a peace-lit area, it's time for rural management to assess its impact in organization and in assessments of environmental impact to be taken from the framework.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u145	Mr. President. When I listened to the highest. A minister explains how this process could look, so it was kind of the first thing I could think of a rule of caution. If there can be a potential part of a wind - powered planet where a special visual effect from 11 miles to the 40th as suggested by a professional class of two would not be a cautionary rule that the law should be tailored to? If the effect is the same as it doesn't last 10 miles, it's just gonna show. Then we have carried out our responsibility as responsible inmates of the country and people who want to keep the safety precautions in high regard. But because the minister mentioned exactly how the procedure could proceed, what category outside the 11th mile [11 km] to a radius from the concept of activation, I have to mention another professional group indication of disposing the idea of Class 3. Group 3 is a predetermined novelty class where the process does not need to be passed. I understand the idea, I understand that people like to get out of the position of previous frame plans, but isn't it the solution to the position to fix the process rather than just push it aside? At any rate, it is in the review of the two professional group, that it is very important to continue on the course that has been completed over the past few years, protecting the frame program that the management device meets in terms of public interest in activation. Does a category three do that?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u146	V.E.G. President. I don't agree that we're to expel Group 3. It is not as if the public interest is not assessed in Group 3, of course it is in Group 3. It's done only in a different part of the system but with the entry of a frame plan. It's done at the state level. This is through assessments of environmental impact. We're creating a system that roughen up the country where we're not going to use wind power and be deciding where to look at it. Of course, that view applies both to classes 2 and to 3. It is a complete and simple misunderstanding to argue that Group 3 does not consider public interest. It's just nonsense and nonsense, and you don't have to push the process frame plan aside. It's changing the system and adjusting what you think is reasonable. Let's not forget it, chief. President, with this system, we are removing a huge region in Iceland that will not allow the wind - power workers and there are larger areas where they will be estimated by a subversive framework, followed by the general evaluation that needs to take place at the time of planning and assessments of environmental impact. As far as I'm concerned, we're here to bring the law to a better source. At the same time as we're looking to increase nature protection and protection from the areas most valuable from wind power, we're also trying to simplify the procedure where it's acceptable to attack.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u147	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for bringing these two Congress cases to our houses. They hold hands, I think I must be, like brothers and sisters of different ages. Of course, wind energy is fascinating and has unique advantages and advantages in many ways. But I agree with what's been said, it's very important to create this clear frame early, that we don't let the wind slide, and we've got transparency on how to use and build up. In the bill, so you'll stone it a little together, you'll learn that both the Scots and the Norwegians have approached this subject in their own way. It would be interesting to hear from a minister about the rules that apply, e.g. this is true in Denmark. It is the image that may be the strongest in our minds, since it is the first one that would wind up and that it was prominent in the environment. Could be the top. A minister sheds some light on the rules they observe in brief? Would it be that a Minister's opinion would be very dramatic if the wind power was placed outside the framework or would not be subject to a law on the protection and energy efficiency devices? How might that affect you? Would that have to be very negative?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u148	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Hv. A senator asked what said against the wind being completely out of the frame. The answer to this is that I think it's more reasonable that we'll travel and develop our methodology to the wind within the framework we have in which we have a project management and professionals who have knowledge to evaluate and provide suggestions for ministers in the case of land exposure. If we had it all outside, we would in fact be letting go of this step that I consider important, especially by nature's principles. We're sorting the areas 1, 2 and 3 according to what's most valuable. If there was no grouping, we might be looking at large windmill gardens, such as. in peace-stained areas. I wouldn't like that, same thing with an area that's on the world calendar of UNESCO, etc., so it might answer. For Denmark, I must admit that I do not know it specifically. There was nothing that we viewed as making the bill and the Senate arrangement, but it naturally plays into that it is very densely populated in Denmark, as we know it. There, the harnessing of wind's energy is much to move to the sea. It's happening in many places, and perhaps the trend here also becomes that wind power plants are increasing to sea. And maybe that would just be nothing bad.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u149	A respectable president. It may now be that my inquiry was indistinguishable, and I'm having a little fun in the fog. But as for the wind, and as for these monuments, they are large and tall and extensive and sharp. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson has repeatedly pointed out that this is a giant human fortress. But it turns out that this energy option is becoming more efficient and is developing technical changes that make this option very competitive compared to traditional water efficiency. I don't think it's a question that we should look at this, because experience with windmills, so small as it is in Iceland, has actually been beyond expectations, if I understand correctly, where the wind has proved to be the most successful force in which the wind has been going, e.g. Under Mount Rejects. Of course, these structures affect the environment and are prominent in it. But I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, how much measurement has taken place here in the country. Have any possible sites been removed? How many are there? What can we envision? They're talking about wind mills, I know the conversation from Gilsdar, and in Hunsar County, people have been pointing at this. I think I'm correct in saying that there were some windmill measurements with this in mind in those areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u150	V.E.G. President. During the 4th step of the frame plan, a total of 1,30040 ideas were developed, indiscriminately, that of wind plants all over the country. Of these, if I recall correctly, five were taken in phase four. Two observations were made in the third stage, the Borfell wind plant, and in the mixed, so there are some studies of this effect in the form of a Framework Programme. There are also measurements of how much energy this will supply, and so on. We're getting more and more knowledge of these matters, both on the basis of what this may produce in energy and on the environment and on nature. But I think it really matters that we have this system all over it, and for that system, nature protection needs to be taken into account, the environment needs to be taken into account, that should be the main line. Nature protection is supposed to be in first place, and I'd like to say this bill reflects it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u151	A respectable president. I had no intention of speaking in excess of this matter, but I can't do otherwise after the words of a minister in his second answer to whom I could not respond to them. The minister said, with the permission of the president: ▪ It is a complete and simple misunderstanding to argue that Group 3 does not consider public interest in it. It's just nonsense and nonsense, and you can't just push the process of a frame plan aside. It doesn't bother me that the Minister was doing this about my views or what I say, but what he thinks is simple, misunderstanding, nonsense, and nonsense are things I had from the title of a professional group two in the fourth stage of a frame plan, the same class as the minister then said had knowledge to appreciate things, but is also his claim to simple, mistaken, and foolish. I'm going to read, with the permission of the President, a few chapters from the review of the two professional groups, which have already provided evidence that the 3rd class, where the activations are in green light, should be removed from this frame. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ In view of the above, it is undesirable to complicate the matter by using different processes to evaluate the effects of wind plants, as well as the areas that do not fit within areas 1 or 2 are not really wide. A Ramma program is a tool created by the government over two decades ago in order to resolve a conflict that can result from the presence of different groups of interest in the same nation's resources. It presents a collective view of all the effects that inducers can have, whether on nature or in society, and with the global interest of the people of the country, rather than on interests, such as the U.S. Individual member or individual interest groups. A team 2 therefore considers the frame plan important and essential tools to enable the construction of the focus on national global interests - not the interests of individual interest groups or community members - and to ensure that it is fully subject to all effects that can be created. When I discussed this review of the professional group in my counter-representation, I said that it was very important to continue on the track that has been completed in the past few years, protecting a frame program that measures the control device that measures public interest in activation. It is a serious, respectable President that the Minister of the Environment melts a professional group in a framework of simplicity, misunderstandings, and nonsense and nonsense. I'm going to hope this was just a mistake where the Minister was going to hit whoever's standing here but accidentally puts the shit out on people closer to him.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u152	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a bill to correct a commitment and pollution law, a change in the handling of wastes and the recycling laws. The bill is for the induction of the cycle system. The main objective of the bill is to introduce in Icelandic 4 EU directives: European Parliament and Council Directive (EU) 2018/850 from 30 May 2018 of the Council Directive 1999/31/EC on the waste management of waste, European Parliament and Council Directive (EU) 2018/851 from May 30. 2018 on the change from 2008/98/EC on waste, European Parliament and Council Directive (EU) 2018 from 30 May 2018 on the change in 94/62/1EC of packaging and packaging waste, European Parliament and Council (EU) 2019/904 from June 5, 2018 to reduce the impact on the environment. Then a list of directives. In addition, the bill suggests changes in the manufacturer's responsibility for batteries and generators as well as the pay on motor vehicles. The bill is presented following an open introduction process in the conference of the Board of Justice last January, and in fact, it was part of the bill in a cross-check a year earlier. The aim of a menstrual economy is to reduce resource use, increase the life span of the earth's resources, and prevent material and objects from disappearing from the economy as waste. In this way adequate waste management and waste management are an important part of what needs to be present in the active cycle economy. The above directives provide new and reviewed waste management regulations. The aim was to re-improve EU rules so that they will help to create a cycle economy, as well as improve existing waste management. The same is true in this country where the results of waste management have not been entirely sufficient. For example, the recycling of household waste was only 28% in 2018, but the target for the last year was 50%. In the years to come, the goal will be increased to 65%, making it clear that the land needs to be treated quickly and that there will be changes in waste management. The bill aims to take further steps toward a circuit system. The following are the main changes proposed in the bill on waste management: First of all, it is suggested that the law be added to the aim of creating the terms of the cycle economy as well as the definitions of the definitions. Second, it is suggested that the collection of wastes should be made to a greater extent than existing laws, as well as the use of uniform means. The development of a specific collection of waste is essential for a national level that is designed to facilitate household waste. The implementation of waste is in accordance with the Regulation, but it is assumed that each waste type will receive its own signals and its characteristics and that the meaning should be used for all waste treatments throughout the country. Third, it is obligatory that individuals and legislators will be obliged to classify specifically collected waste products. The active involvement of the public and the legislators into stratosphere is a fundamental factor in specific waste collections. Fourth, special collections of wastes, plastics, and cardboard are expected to be within the property of urban homes and legislators. The aim of this change is to expand the service of inhabitants and contribute to the growth of household waste recycling. Fifth, a minister must be allowed to issue an exception to the demand for special waste to meet certain criteria, while it is clear that rural waste collection calls for different solutions. Sixth, the bill suggests that waste management is mandatory. It suggests that structural and demolition waste will be minimally classified into certain categories, which should include improving the treatment and use of such wastes and reducing the disposal of unwanted materials into water and soil. seventh, the principle that special collections of waste must be avoided for incineration or protection is assumed. This is important climate issues. This change is in accordance with the directive's purpose to reduce waste prices, especially wastes suitable for recycling or other recycling, supporting the implementation of the cycle economy. Finally, changes are proposed in the literature of rural society to collect a fee for waste management, including waste management. that they may be required to collect the actual cost of their services. On the basis of current legislation, local communities have the authority to set a fixed price for each building unit for all the costs of rural society in the collection and handling of waste. The bill suggests that this Community document will be further developed and suggested that rural communities be allowed to set the cost as fixed for each building unit to collect up to 25% of the total cost of the rural population in collecting and handling waste. At the same time, a rural society will be permitted to shift the actual cost of wastes to contribute to the economy. In this way, rural areas can encourage increased recycling by moving costs for collection and other treatments of recycling to recycling due to mixed waste. The bill then presents the length of the manufacturer's responsibility for all packaging. The responsibility of producers and immigrants is that they are responsible for the particular product when its use is completed and that it has become a waste. In order to cover the costs of waste management, the Calculus fund is laid on the relevant product. In accordance with local laws, the disposal fee is placed on cardboard, paper and plastic wrappings. However, the bill suggests that there will be additional processing fees on glass, metal, and wood stores. The bill also suggests the implementation of the manufacturer's responsibilities in industrial batteries and industrial batteries used to drive vehicles. It is suggested that manufacturers are enrolled in the Agency's registration and import systems, as with producers of other battery and generators. Then producers and immigrants are obliged to accept used industrial batteries and industrial generators free of charge. Furthermore, changes in loyalty laws and pollution prevention and extraction laws are proposed for the manufacturer's responsibility for specific plastic products. These include plastic fishing instruments, certain food containers, and food containers, drinking vessels, load bags, wet wipes, blisters, and filtering tobacco products. The bill then suggests changes in the bill to meet tips on the income of the Waste Fund. Finally, it should be noted that the bill has something to do with climate - related measures. By 2018 greenhouse gas emissions from waste management were approximately 5% of total Iceland discharge without land use. The vast majority of the above emissions from waste waste management can be discarded, or 95%, if needed. The bill aims to reduce waste prices significantly, since it is considered to be the most important climate action that can be applied to land waste. According to the Ministry Department, the bill will result in minimal cost-effective effects for the state funds. A respectable president. I've traced this bill's main subject and suggested that the bill be after the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u153	Mr. President. I thank the Minister for the story and the case. There are a number of things here that are looking at a significantly better way of dealing with waste. But I would like to ask the minister if there is no golden opportunity for Iceland to do more than simply introduce some European directives that come from the European Union, take the lead, and go beyond the European Union in certain areas, and direct our eyes to the waste that is so easy to cover on the land. That would be, for example. can be put on fish canals or plastics; it is easier to control the waste in this country than in most other places, and it can produce considerable results. I'd like to ask the Minister if this has been checked inside the Ministry, and if not, maybe we'll consider it on the Environment and Transport Committee. Then I would like to ask a secretary about what has sometimes been called the biggest plastic problem, which is another type of waste that is more common in Iceland than in most places, but there are fishing instruments, and especially the fact that the project has had a special agreement with the Elite Fund and perhaps it is simple to say that recycling of fishing instruments is in vain. I'm asking if we're taking that position with this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u154	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Hv. A senator asks: "Can we do better than the European Union? My answer to that is: Yes, we should be able to do so. However, as shown in my background, we are doing well today, with only 28% recycling of household waste but to be in 50%. The bill goes a little further than the directives when it comes to building on a urban wall. There we are putting plastic and cardboard and paper inside and inside life waste property, but the directives are strictly mandatory in the waste of life. We are also speeding up the collection of biohazardous waste to January 1, 1923, but it is on December 31, 1923, so here we may be dealing with the exports of the ships, at least in the right direction. Then I just agree with it with what. A senator that it is important to review the overall number of plastic products that can be submitted to the manufacturer's responsibility and thus into the Work Fund's management. There is something that we have begun to examine about plastics, and in view of this, there is also reason to prohibit the introduction of more plastic items than was done last year's legislation. In the second answer to a question, why? I come to the Convention of the Sea Work Fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u155	A respectable president. Yes, we are behind many of our neighboring countries on the waste matter and likely a considerable amount of land with us standing before them in this regard. But there are these parishes, where we have a unique position and can quickly control specific waste areas. Things like fish carnivorous are things we can definitely look at. For consumer plastic products, it raises other ideas, e.g. the need to step up these charges. We'll see, for example. that the glass bottle is very simple in recycling compared with plastic bottles, which may contain three types of plastic depending on where the bottle is killed. Such containers should carry a much higher extraction charge. I think it is key, however, in the second contrary to the minister's fact that he enters the sea road because of the fishing tools, that the fishing route by contracts with Exploitation Fund is in point of view to allow others to pay for recycling waste. This can hardly be in harmony with what we want in this business and shows that it may not be enough to place the product in the financial management department, such as the Minister puts it, but it needs to ensure that this management will be in harmony with a pollution - saving policy, that the person who pollutes a city for its wastes. This certainly is not the situation with the seabed during this contract with the Worker Fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u156	V.E.G. President. Based on the information I have from Exploitation Fund, there has been a review of the agreement with the European Commission on fishing opportunities. I'm not quite sure if it's working on the final meters, but I know it's been quite a while since it started and it's taken a lot of debate between the two parties. I mentioned in my introduction here that now it is my duty to place the plastic fishing tools under the manufacturer's responsibility. I think that's a very positive step forward. I agree with the rule as rule. A senator mentioned, that he should pay as long as possible. The bill's songs bear the mark, especially since we're looking at the change in rural payment, where we're gonna build a system where we're paying for what we're paying for. At the same time, rural communities will be free to increase the cost of the waste and the barrels carrying the reconstituted waste. I'd like to say, about the step shift as fast as possible. The senator mentioned here, that it is assumed that it will be done. I have to admit, I don't quite remember whether it's in the changing of the bill on the processing fee or whether it's a Regulation issue. I think it's a policy matter, but that's exactly what you're supposed to do, and that's the right way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u157	V.E.G. Mr. President, I hereby recommend a bill to correct climate change. The bill suggests that the government's objective for noncarbonizing Iceland will be established in the year 2040. In addition, the term "carbon neutralisation " is suggested to be added to the descriptions of the law. The increasing concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere has resulted in significant changes over the decades, with apparent changes in natural processes and communities around the world. It is important to respond and correct the consequences of global warming. Many countries have already set out goals for non-carbon, and Iceland is one of them. It is important to establish the goal of government policy. More countries have followed this route and have legalized goals for noncarbon, such as Sweden, Denmark, France, Hungary, New Zealand, and Britain. A goal for non-carbon Iceland in 2040 is set out in the government Treaty and is an important policy making. The Treaty states that the guide for climate policy in Iceland is the 2015 Paris Convention's policy to limit the global temperature rise at 1.5 °C. To meet the Paris Convention's target, man-made greenhouse gas emissions must be reduced as rapidly as possible, including. with lower use of fossil fuels but at the same time increasing carbon binding, such as in the soil and vegetation of ecosystems and forestry, reduction of carbon dioxide for permanent storage in aquifers or other established processes. There I remind myself of my bill adopted at the General Assembly in March. Thus, the balance between the greenhouse gases released from human activities and the uptake of carbon and its binding to the receptors must be established at any given time. The European Environment Action Programme, published in June 2020 by 48 measures, carried out in cooperation with a number of strategists, is looking to a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions to 2030. The strategy also lays the groundwork for achieving the objectives of noncarbonization in the year 2040. The rapid decline in emissions is therefore of importance but also of laying the basis for the increased carbon binding from the atmosphere to stabilise carbon emissions at the quantity that can be bound. At the start of extensive policy development on the way to non-carbon and is a long-term plan for limited greenhouse gas emissions based on the climate Convention on this road. This work will include conversations, consultations, and cooperation with the general public and provide key elements for the purpose of a non-carbon society to require changes and cooperation between partners. A respectable president. This is a very important climate issue that emphasizes the importance of the King Katrín's Jakobsdóttir's government on this important subject. With legalization of the aims of carbon delinquency, the Allied Council would set us at the same spot as other nations who have taken this step and set an example for those nations who have not legally established the goals of noncarbonization. A respectable president. I've traced this bill's main subject and suggested that it be after the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u158	Mr. President. I thank the Minister for the story and this important bill. To achieve the Paris Convention's objectives of reduction in greenhouse gas emissions is very important. What I would like to ask a minister is maybe two things. It matters in this conference, it matters how experts deal with these issues, how the general public understands, how the information is as transparent, and how it is as clear as possible. Then the fact is that in the year 2040, it is a little far away. Looking at the objective of 0 in 2040 may not say enough about what we have to do for 2025, where we will be in exactly 2030 or 2035. So I'd like to ask a minister if any consideration of the separation of this passage was made toward a lack of carbon and perhaps especially by establishing a valid emissions goal by the year 2030, according to the Paris Convention's office.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u159	President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. At the same time I can say that 2040 is a little far away, it's actually very close to us, especially in view of the large task of achieving non-carbon in the 20 years we have a bearing. And I think it's very important that we look at it as at the latest, 2040, that we need to achieve this in my opinion, and that going over to non-carbonization is the next step. Of course, it has been discussed to see if there can be a breakthrough, i.e. what results can be achieved in 2025, 2030, 2035, etc. We're on policy-making and we're with the Social Science Institute of Iceland and the Economic Institute for the University of Iceland, as well as with specialists at the University of Reykjavík, to help us figure out what we can do to 2040. This may be the case, and especially in consultation with the public and the professionals, that we need to divide it more. Then it should be easier to understand what we are achieving if we are able to compare with the year 2030 - what is a lot of noncarbon stuff? In fact, I feel that the implementation and the policy work needed to consider these factors is well considered, although it is not necessarily set in law which steps are reached in the non-carbonization of 2030 or 2035. But in itself, there may not be anything that would rule that out this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u160	A respectable president. I'm going to go so far as to say that it is necessary to establish a law for 2030, not just because in the year 2040, it is far away in the sense that governments must take action that is much earlier, but because in terms of the aim of a law on climate change, it is only said that there are conditions to live up to international commitments. The international commitments are primarily these days, the Paris State covenant, which has just 2030 as a key year. In a spirit of transparency, in the sense that the discussion can be clear, it would be perfectly normal to attach a law at any distance on the way to a non-carbon object. But the problem is that it's a natural problem. Then we need to hear and see from the government what the objective of the European Union's joint objective is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In fact, I can think of, and perhaps I'm thinking out loud: Do you have to bind the non-carbons, as it is defined here, better with man - made emissions in Iceland, so that we're not making other umbrellas to hide under?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u161	V.E.G. President. I think me and what. A senator may be talking about the same thing, I suspect he will. A senator had only misunderstood me earlier when I was talking about 2030, where I meant if some means of legalizing any means on the way to a non-carbonization, i.e. that we had a certain amount of carbon neutralising then. I can agree with that with what. A senator that it is desirable to place in law the 2030 targets in relation to the Paris Convention, as is actually stated by the law, except what it may be about what is involved in Iceland through cooperation with the European Union and Norway. The key point is, naturally, the principle of binding carbon neutralisation, when it will be reached for Icelandic society, by law because it will also bind the hands of the future governments. Of course, the law can be changed, but in my opinion, it is entirely the main purpose of this law to achieve this principle in order to handle the road. Then there's the progress on how we get this exactly, which steps we're gonna get 2025, 2030, 2035, and that's where we're always getting better and better information. We're training a man to work on this for us. We are, I mean, light years from where we were three years ago, simply because we've added human resources to institutions and conspires. We've made better use of free assistance from the university. So I think this is a project that will simply be very exciting to work on in the coming years.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u162	V.E.G. President. I recommend here for a bill for a new comprehensive framework of the environmental assessment of projects and programmes. The bill was based on an environment and resource minister's staff. The staff had seats, as well as the chairman, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Ottir's son Proppér, members of the European Union, the Association of Professional Affairs, the Department of Transport and Development, the Ministry of Employment and Development, and the Organization. The main objectives of global review of the legislation on environmental impact are increased effectiveness in decision-making of environmental impact assessments and to ensure that the public and other stakeholders in the process are in line with the requirements of the European Convention. In view of these objectives, much emphasis was placed on broad consultations with the general public and other stakeholders in reviewing the law. An open meeting was held prior to the work group's beginning, with the views of partners, executives, rural partners, institutions, academics and other stakeholders, as well as those called by public views and stakeholders in a confidentiality view. The plans for the legislation and billing were also published in the government's consultations for introductions and comments. The bill puts together cohesion on the environmental assessment legislation and on the other hand environmental assessment legislation, in one total law. This is the current law No. 106/2000, assessment of environmental impact and law No. 105/2006, of the environmental assessments, expected to fail will be approved by the bill. The bill includes the implementation of European Commission on Environment Assessment and evaluation. The integration of the legislation includes increasing clarity and perspective as the main aspects of environmental assessment and estimates are the same as the whole set of legislation on the subject are thought to reflect the interaction of environmental assessments and programmes. The bill was designed to improve the implementation of the legislation by shorter and clearer regulations and clearer chapter divisions as well as by assuming further implementation of regulations in the Regulation. An appointed task force was taking into account the identification of Attorney Aagot V. Óskarsdóttir, which worked in 2019 for the Environmental and Resource Ministry, on certain aspects of the national legislation and Scotland that deal with the state of environmental assessment and license. The bill outlines the selection of environmental management programmes and the administration of governments to improve the quality and effectiveness of the administrative organisation. This refers to the site for the executives, the license companies and the Organization to review and coordinate the process in order to improve the quality and effectiveness of projects. The bill expects the use of electronic atrials for environmental assessment, planning, and permit measures, as per the bill for the change in organizational laws now available for the treatment of the General Assembly, 275. An electronic portal provides a better perspective and a clear time line in individual languages, facilitates communication, improves information flow and traceability, thereby improving effective work and time savings for institutions and managers, cooperation of work between institutions, faster payment procedures, and faster payment procedures. With the bill, treatment for environmental assessment of activities has been simplified and made clearer, with the objective of strengthening public access to decision making. The time points in the process where the public can come to viewpoints, they are the same as the current law, but they are expected to have a compatible presentation for environmental assessments of action and planning. From a strategy to grant permission to be implemented on the general public's option to agree on the environmental assessment of the programme, which allows for the evaluation of the procedure, the public shall provide six weeks of reporting and where it is possible to sue the decision of the rural management on the implementation of a shared sectoral strategment to the decision made by the Environment and Resource Committee. It is then aimed at strengthening public access towards the process with available information and increased transparency. The Agency's decisions on the assessment of performance and the decision of the permit team on allowing the legislation are also welcome to the Environmental and Resource Decisions Committee. If the bill becomes a law, a court order for environmental assessment will be obtained closer to what is known in the neighboring countries of Iceland. The overall environmental assessment process is reduced from the current law by simplifying consultation with an assessment plan. It is expected that, rather than double discussion, this will occur once and also on a demand for primary assessment report. This is in harmony with neighboring legislation. Thus a comparison of neighboring legislation revealed that there is less treatment periods in Icelandic law than in northern countries and Scotland. Hence, the bill suggests that temporary adjustments will be made with the aim of being more practical and contributing to an increase in confidence. The rules on paint are also simplified in the bill. It is suggested that special charges due to ceremony or inactivity be suspended in the context of environmental assessment, which is considered to violate public participation rights. Compared to other northern countries and Scotland, Iceland is the only country with special charges because of violations of public rights. The report is based on the credible opinion of ESA, who felt that Icelandic law did not guarantee the right to carry the government's inactivity in evaluating environmental impacts under an independent and impartial court or a ruling committee. The Environmental and Resource Ministry has had a discussion with ESAs, the EFTA Observation Institute, on the possibility of changing these requirements. This bill suggests the changes in this point on the European Commission decision-making board of environmental and resource resources that there can be a violation of public participation under the decision-making committee in relation to the charges of the Commission's assessment of the Agency's evaluation or a government's decision on granting permission. This does not reduce public access to experimenting with activity and inactivity, as shown. The bill suggests that the terms of the Agency's opinion of environmental impact are binding to the permit group. This is in accordance with EU environmental assessment Directive. The binding conditions of the provisional organisation are also considered to have a better place in the neutrality of the allowing force in accordance with the directive's requirement. The EU Environmental Assessment Directive requires that environmental impacts be fully respected at the time of granting permission for implementation. The current legislation on environmental impact measures for the decision of the Agency on the need to review partial or total assessment by the recruiter prior to authorisation if the implementation does not occur within 10 years of the opinion of the environmental impact assessment. It is evident that in all cases such indisputable rule cannot ensure that the implementation of the procedure should be fully accepted, although the 10 years have not fully completed. Therefore, the bill provides a new guide to request the opinion of the Organization for either partial or overall environmental assessment, regardless of the time since the review has been made. After 10 years, however, such an attitude is still to be sought by the Organization. The EU Environmental Assessment Directive, on the basis of a panel of assessments of activities, and on the other hand, measures to take into account the requirements for assessment, are recommended. The directive gives Member States a choice to make a decision on the assessment of the latter projects at a time, by permission of the President, in English ◯case by case examination, by measuring for specific threshold values or by going on the reconstituted route. The current legislation measures in more detail three categories of construction, groups A, B, and C. Class C will fall into specific activities regardless of size, depending on the decision of the local government. This bill suggests reevaluation of projects with clearness in mind to minimize the occurrence of uncertainty about the implementation of the law. Concomitant use of Class C is excluded, i.e. that implementation should be reported regardless of the size and location. Due to the deletion of Class C, the threshold value of Class B has been reviewed. Experience with the implementation of current C class implementation guidelines indicates that they are unlikely to have a high environmental impact. In addition to this, the bill suggests adjustments in organizational laws, No. 123/2010, where the integration of reports and presentations through environmental assessment is further recommended, implementation and planning. It's also a law on the Environmental and Resource Decisions Committee, No. 130/2011, due to simple language rules and nature protection laws, No. 60/2013, to conform to term use according to the bill. A respectable president. I've traced the bill's main subject and suggested that it be at 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-13-77.u163	President. I'm sorry to interrupt. A whole assembly with very few words, but a few truly will be. All I wanted to do was come up here because I led a team working on this bill. In his company, let's say, the main stakeholders involved and the group worked very extensively, took a considerable long time on this, longer than planned, but reached the goal for quite many years, achieving these different viewpoints in a single bill. There they found an organization that was primarily concerned with protection at the hands of representatives of the employment organization, rural society, and the rest of the world. These views were able to collect on this bill that I personally believe is somewhat progressive and bring us closer to what we know in the countries we compare with. I simply wanted to thank for the work that went on in that group and do so here in the Hall of Congress.
