ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u1	President. Yesterday I spoke about how the government left behind the worst groups in the Covid crisis, but I did not discuss enough of the effects that the Covid crisis has had on immigrants in Iceland. As we know, foreign citizens were temporarily 40% of all the unemployed in Iceland, at the highest unemployment rate, despite being only 15% of the population. This showed us the extreme inequities that existed when it came to the loss of employment in the Covid crisis. We already know that there is not enough work to meet this group in Iceland. It has not been done enough to cope with the fires on a Brerburg path, to make sure that such a tragedy does not recur. There is not enough work to get people in unfinished homes who live in a job house and who are often at the mercy of their employers, in decent, decent, decent housing. Again, I would like to refer to a respected President's report of inequities and Covid, but on page 20. 10 will appear, with the permission of the president: The Covid crisis is at the same time an impact factor and its consequences. Incoherent or class distinctions are an important factor in the idea that low-pay groups, especially women and foreign citizens, have been in the forward line of community response to the epidemic within the health, welfare, and education system. For the sake of finality, increased stress and other preventive measures have been made their work more difficult, as well as because of the greater risk of infection among these groups than most others. Clearly, tens of thousands of chronic unemployment and losss have been dropped in order to increase economic instability in the community. It is also important to look to the social status of the most affected groups and to suffer from reduced education, language difficulties, or other borderlines. This is remembered when considering the effects of the crisis on immigrants. That's exactly what I consider an important reminder for us. This, a respectable president, I mean, is not to be found in this financial bill; that it stands to work against this inequities, that it stands to strengthen the position of foreign workers here in Iceland, that it should be done in order to get it out of the housing problem it has, a housing problem in which there is an entirely different scale than that of the native population. We look up the perimeter of the people who continued to spread our economy, who kept us going in good times. But as soon as the shoe squeezed, they were allowed to leave, without long - term work. So it was little for the government to deal with this large group of Icelandic society that keeps our economy going in good times. I would like to agree with what is stated in this report, by permission of the president, on page 24. 11, that it can be said that the epidemic has produced a stronger color of the existing inequality in society and the economic, employment, ethnic background, network, and other modulating factors. There is concern that the effects of the epidemic and its hardships may be expected to last a long time and that it has been discussed with the Covid Age in this context. I'd like to discuss this case with this late-year-old President, and why it is so important that we take on a strong investment, that we strengthen our official systems, that we are taking a major initiative in mental health and that we use the government's investments in green infrastructures to deal with the climate crisis. All of these are ways of dealing with what many scholars fear; that will be Covid-year-old, i.e. long-term and serious social effects of the Covid epidemic. People were isolated, lost their jobs, lost income, lost their rights, and suffered from these illnesses. Scholars fear that this will result in a much unevenness, a much greater risk of serious mental illness and long - term social impact. Therefore, it is so disappointing to see how ambitious this financial bill and the financial plan it is for public investments, for mental health benefits, for the services of disability and the elderly, in all the social areas in which all international institutions make it necessary to strengthen these infrastructure, not weaken them when the valley is hard to deal with. A respectable president. I see that my speech session is running out, and I had requested to have a foreign minister answer to me. I wondered if it hasn't worked.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u2	Message was delivered at the highest. Secretary of State, but she's not here yet.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u3	She's not here yet, okay? I'm still going to kill on what I was going to talk to the highest. Secretary of state. Well, I hope she'll share this with me in another way, since she couldn't be here in the Senate Hall. But it is. I wanted to share my song with a cross. Iceland is leading the Council of Europe in the coming year and I sit in the European Council of Iceland and I know how important and how much it is for Iceland in this important business of government. I see in the budget that there is an additional 23 million budget available in preparing the Presidency of Iceland in the European Council, 23 million. At the same time, Iceland's contribution to the Council of Europe falls from 76 million to 70 million. I wanted to ask the highest. Minister to this discrepancy. Why do we lower our standard contribution in the very year of management? Is it really enough to spend 23 million in the premeditation of Iceland in the Council of Ministers of the European Parliament when we feel that it is all right to spend 130 million on paying supervision of foreign funds in Iceland? They have to pay the monitoring fee, but the monitoring fee is not sufficient for the monitoring that the F.O.B. needs to keep with them, so we pay with them 127 million. At this giant stage of 47 member countries of the European Council, where cooperation is on human rights, democracy and the legal state, where Iceland can be fully promoted in a community of nations, where Iceland can present important issues, here I name equality and rights to gay people, e.g. The sexes of people, on the program, we're gonna spend 23 million, sort of 17 if we take into account the reduction I was referring to, a respectable president. But I don't seem to have any answers to these questions in this talk at least. Maybe we'll have a chance to talk it over again at 2nd. There we expect to have some positive changes in this budget, since it is not yet a matter of exactly what it contains, without our knowing anything about the changes in it. It is, in a sense, a certain seminary exercise, a respectable president, to discuss here a bill that was actually out of date as it entered here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u4	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the tour. I'd like to ask her, because she is familiar with all parts of the European Council, only to the importance of that cooperation and whether it matters, and to what extent we are engaged in an abundance of international cooperation. Of course, we are now a tiny island nation, and you wonder when you have to choose and refuse where you put your strength and what your resources are, of course, limited resources. If she could discuss just what role we as small countries in this area, in the Council of Europe, and what it means that we are there at all. Can you hear us? Does the United States have enough strength to do this, so that we are visible where we sit? If she could do a little research and see how she can manage to limit the amount of money that is limited to this particular project.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u5	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Our place at the European Council table is very important, especially because we are not members of the European Union. Then I would have thought that a small nation, such as Iceland, with a great need for international cooperation, would be able to see its advantages in having a strong voice in the Council of Europe, which is a wonderful site of cooperation for 47 European countries on human rights, democracy, and legal state. No doubt, the most famous product of this cooperation between the European Convention, all of whom we all know quite well, and the court that judges the violation of it. However, there are a number of other factors that come from the European Council, such as the European Commission and the prevention of torture, GRECO and C.E. which we rely on when we are evaluating the quality of our administrations, when we are evaluating the quality of our administration commands. The Venetian Committee is for example. a fine example of a beautiful European Council product helping support the state's legal rights and considering its management arrangements in connection with good government practices. Prettiness in the Ministry is a responsible role, one that results in, as did all the 47 other nations, we have at the table that is equivalent to all the other rules. There are 47 foreign ministers in the Council of Europe, i.e. in the Council of Ministers of the European Council, and our votes there are just as strong as the votes of everyone else. There's no such thing a northwest situation two times against the Southwestern or something like that there, but we just have this one vote. We will be premeditated at the Council of Ministers, which is a very large stage for us to demonstrate our potential in human rights. [[The president calls.]] I don't think we're ambitious enough to build up a big part of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u6	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's viewpoint on this very clear voice, and this clear emphasis, whether we use that voice well enough, whether or not we decide in common what focus we want to maintain. Is the decision made somewhere in common, or who really makes a decision on what weight we weigh in our words and what things we want to put the most emphasis on Iceland's hand? I agree with what. A senator for the support we have found in human rights, in democracy and in government is no small thing. It's incredibly important to us to get this holding, and I think it was a giant step for us and it's a giant step for us to get involved with civilized nations. But the question is, How do we get along with the indications that come from the outside?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u7	V.E.G. President. I guess it's the State Department that makes it work. But I just want to state that I am invited and prepared to help with it as much as possible. I have had five years of experience sitting in the Council of Europe. Because of it. A senator was talking about whether our voice was heard clearly enough, then I wanted to promote that we have three seats in the Council of Europe of 340, something like that. But we also have three spare seats that we will never use. Most other departments also send their guards to the Council of Europe because they can serve in all the nobility unless they prefer to vote for a vote when the main man is inside the hall. There are many committees in the European Parliament who meet at the same time during the week. Then it's good to go out with watchmen to cover all committees, but this has never been done by the Icelandic Parliament. The Icelandic Parliament has also hosted how many members of the European Parliament can pick up from the Council of Europe despite their agreement with the Council. I have also felt bad, because it means that it is more difficult for the Icelandic Parliament to take on responsibility in the European Parliament than for members of other national departments to respect the rules set out at the European Parliament on cooperation between the nations. It was a real pleasure to have opened up with Iceland's e - mail office. I think it was first last year. We were the only department without a delegation in Strasbourg to the Council of Europe, the big scene. So it's at least what's on the move. There's certainly positive signs, but it's amazing that we had to live a long time before we got a real commission to Strasbourg, and we could do a lot better when it comes to the Iceland Department, that's for sure.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u8	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sólrhi Ævarsdóttir Asvardóttir for a fine speech. I was going to come up with something that I'm going to allow myself to move over for a second answer, just in view of a discussion here, we're going to face up to it. paritaprevir Vala Vól Vól Helgadóttir on the matter of speech at the Council of Ministers, the European Parliament, in which I understood it so. A senator considered it to be a great improvement that it was equal to a minister at that table. But I figure in a very gross mind account that's about twenty times the vote that Iceland's Minister has there compared to that which is a moderate vote. Then I'm not comparing him with, for example. ... representativeofthe Germans or French. In other words, it is better to consider this matter in the Council of Ministers of the Council of Europe than, for example, the Council of Ministers. in comparison between the northwestern district and the Southwestern district, since it was mentioned in particular earlier?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u9	A respectable president. No, I don't think it's any better. I think it's very bad that the Northwest District has twice the vote of the Southwestern District, I think it's incorrigibly incompetent. I find it amazing that there are elections that the voters of the Northwestern district have a double vote right to Southwestern voters, but it should not be changed until after elections, there should be nothing to do about it until after election. I think it's a very amazing project, and it's incorrigibly incredulous. That Iceland has a twenty-fold vote compared to a ballot number at the Council of Ministers of the European Council, so we're going to take care of it, I think it's just part of the Council of Europe. This field is anyway, so there's only one vote on the head of this Minister's Council, i.e. The council where all foreign ministers take their place. This is the European Parliament's European Commission. If we were to assume that the government would ever vote for anything between us, then it would probably also be that the ideal size of each minister would not change each minister's approval. Also, there are considerably more voters behind me than there are other members of Congress, but my vote is only once. It remains that in the Council of Ministers of the European Council, we have an important voice and in the Council of Europe, where our share is more consistent with our size - we have three members of the council while the national department e.g. Germany has 18 - is often trusted with us for good works, especially because of a geographic situation and because we are considered to be somewhat independent and not on the edge of some controversy even between large areas of Europe. We are considered a neutral agent who can take on a great and powerful task considered to be a political controversial because of our position and even because of our smallness. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u10	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Just for fun, I think there's a lot of votes so that each senator is behind members of the Central Party. But it's an outcast. Then what I was going to ask about last year's answer. Hv. A senator expressed concern about living in a job house in his talk. I share her concerns that it's a real problem. If I recall correctly, there are some 7,000 people today who are expected to live in a job house that is not approved as an apartment home. What solutions do Pirantics consider to be the most reasonable? This, of course, is a matter that becomes more urgent, I would think, as time goes on and especially in the light of serious events that have taken place. Yet, if it is right for 7,000 people to live under these conditions, see why. A senator realizes that this needs to be solved by putting these people in a living home or changing the regular work of the job house today? It's a big picture question in these subjects.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u11	A respectable president. That's a good question. I feel like the government always gives up when it comes to the moment: Yes, but where are these people going? It's like this is so because we can't throw it on the street, we're not going to do anything about their living in a bad jobhouse. What do I think I should do? I think it's pretty obvious that the social housing system in Iceland needs to be supported, and there need to be some specific resources for people who are stuck in unfinished housing. I wouldn't want to change the rule, so you can just keep people in the studio, not at all. But we also need to watch the regularity around firehouses and how difficult it is to force the owners of a home to make sure that all burns are in order and how easy it is to house a lot of foreigners in a job house without having significant consequences for the person doing so. I think this is a problem that needs to be addressed from many sources. One of them is, of course, that living in Iceland is incredibly expensive. People are being brought in here in a fray to do construction work in Iceland when they're well-fed and stored in places like stocks. It's a disgrace in our rich society that it gets to pass, that we've known this for years without something being done about it. That's an incredible shame. I don't think I've ever experienced anything like the apathy of government officials in Iceland more than the apathy of this fire. I have strong memories of the highest. The prime minister was more concerned with winning some soccer game than with showing fellow feeling to those who lost family members and friends. [[The president calls.]] It was a very shameful, respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u12	A respectable president. I had requested that the highest. The Secretary of State and Development would come and I hope to get some answers from a minister despite her inability to attend. In my second talk at 1st. About the budget of 2022, I would like to cover development support, but it is a matter that concerns me very closely, where I have worked in that field for decades. This week the United Nations cohesive Office published a report on how things look for the next year, and this report is very black. Worldwide, some 274 million people are expected to need assistance, and here we are talking, not about development aid, but about emergency assistance. 274 million people, an increase of 39 million years. The need for funding, not for development aid, but for emergency relief, is estimated to increase from 31 billion dollars to 41 billion dollars. What is it that makes this? Yes, climate problems create increased droughts, floods, and stronger hurricanes, especially around the center, but wars have also prolonged or even arose in recent months in some countries. There are countries like Ethiopia, Afghanistan, and Myanmar. It is estimated that some 1% of mankind is affected by a famine and confusion over 44 million people in over 43 lands. There's women and children in much more. When I started reading the budget bill, I was thrilled to see that the proportion of GDP that Iceland will put into development from 0.32% before 2021 to 0.35% by 2022. For what? The overall body of non-involved members of this sector, as I can point out, is that the proportion of economic and global development, OECD, suggests that rich countries contribute to development as 0.7% of GDP. It is, of course, great news that we Icelanders have come halfway to that goal. This is where we Iceland are still a large northern boat and, in fact, most other countries of Western Europe. This 0.03% increase between years corresponds to 3.4 billion dollars. raise solid prices. Great news if they were actually right. It was revealed when the data were more carefully examined, especially in small type, that 3.3 billion of these increases are actually accounting effects. The Development Committee of the Economic and Development Organization gave in to pressures from countries such as Britain and other countries where conservatives are in control, and allowed nations to define the cost of receipt and expulsion from the hospice as developing cooperation. Of course, the government of Iceland took advantage of this opportunity to make things look good on paper, but that's a big mistake based on shortsightedness. Those of us who have come to the countries where people are fleeing, which have established the areas in which disasters and wars rage, and that have occurred in the tragic conditions where refugees live, even for decades, such as those in the refugee camps in the North California, have lived hundreds of thousands, some of us from 1991 - those of us who have experienced this knowledge of the importance of development and humanitarian assistance. In my former job, I offered the highest. Minister of Justice and, indeed, Minister of Foreign Affairs, to visit in such a situation. A minister may, in effect, realize what was being sent out. It is my new ultimate hope. Development minister and Supreme Minister. A minister of justice makes a trip to get a deeper understanding of what it means to send people back in these circumstances. To find a way to raise what is classified as cost to evolution by taking the cost of reception and excommunication of inmates into this spending category is a big mistake, since we are only dealing with the consequences, not the causes. You see, real development is to improve the interests of people where they live, to improve their interests so that they do not have to escape the land of their origin, to improve their interests so that they can ensure a decent future for their children and family. As you walk through the slums of big cities like Nairobi and see how people live, people who live less than two dollars a day, you understand why people are running away. When you see people in war - torn areas, such as the one you see. Afghanistan, where women no longer have any opportunities for education, you understand that people will, of course, flee where they are. On this, i.e. to deal with things where they are, we Icelanders have put our focus ever since Iceland's legislation with developing countries was established in 1971. As a child, I was allowed to observe my father, who was on the board of that committee, working to help the Cape Verde to become an independent nation and to use the seabed there. We have been a source of abundant knowledge in the fields of fishing, land healing, geothermality, and now, for the last time, equality. No matter where I've been, the work of Iceland and the Icelandic relief organization is very well felt, and I've been asking their receivers how they really are. It was a pleasure to see during the last term an increase in cooperation with a national relief organization rather than focus on a two - sided or multi - side development aid, and I miss a little on this budget bill not to see an even greater increase in this. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Thank you very much for this development and foreign minister, each of her visions as new Minister of these matters is on how we Icelanders can take our part in this difficult task.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u13	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. Ólafsson In particular, Dr. Electricisson's contribution to the budget and is sincerely pleased to know that this is a discussion of refugee support, development aid, and other factors to be key in Iceland's foreign policy. I've had experience with this type of job. A senator and I have often wondered about it, both in my previous life as a general and, indeed, in recent years, as much as we care little, little understanding, and really little responsibility. I'd like to put it into political context because we've been involved in war. We supported the Iraq invasion. We're still facing the consequences of that. That was in 2003. In 2001, Afghanistan was invaded. We have been fully involved in the work and structure that has taken place, but there has not been a hearing from the government since the shameful elimination of the NATO nations from Afghanistan, where Afghans were left in the hands of conversational candidates. It's like it's none of Iceland's business. I'd so much like to have a discussion about it here at the great General Assembly, which is the vision. I ask like what. Senator, I'm asking the highest. Foreign and Development Minister: What's the vision? What's the responsibility of Iceland? When are we going to face Iceland's responsibility in these matters, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u14	A respectable president. Thank you. 8th Senator of the Southwestern District for a good answer. Surely, it is time for us to discuss these matters. We fight here, or maybe we don't fight, those of you who have been here before have been arguing about what to do with trustrs. There we are arguing about the consequences, not the cause. We all know that trying to put plasters on things does not always mean that it does. We need to tackle things where they are. There's a war in Afghanistan. A senator mentioned it. Unfortunately, decades of policy making in the correct direction of things seems to have gone over several weeks. I'm especially thinking about women in Afghanistan and the opportunities they've lost. There we can do a big thing, and the government has said that we would like to welcome a few people, especially individuals who have been connected to Iceland in some way. At the same time, you see other countries and even individuals helping get whole football teams. I'd like to put out a little idea to the highest level. Foreign and Development Minister. Consider, too, how we can help women in Afghanistan to educate themselves, even as they are stuck within Afghanistan itself. You can also use digital technology to reach people who are hiding instead of attending a university that is now closed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u15	V.E.G. President. Yes, we need to examine the causes. No one makes a flight without cause, and we need to understand why the refugee problem is of the size of what he is today. There are conflicts and wars, even conflicts supported by Iceland. It's the climate problem without a doubt. It is also this tremendous inequities between countries around the world and countries that cause people to have no chance, or see no other chance, than to run away. We need to face ourselves deeply in this category and stop viewing people as trying to find refuge in Iceland as some problem that we will send away every time and then write on an accounting team. There is really no way to describe the insolence of an operation. There is really no way to describe that here we are, in our rich country, with everything we have to offer, every week to dismiss sensitive groups, women and children, and then to sort them as developing cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u16	A respectable president. I can't help but agree completely with what. A senator, that is a disgrace. If we want to do something like that, for example. For those who flee war in Afghanistan, there is an easy way: to stop sending away the trustees from Afghanistan that are already in Iceland. Then comes a question or a complaint from someone: Yes, but aren't these just some men who have come here? You see, I'll tell you, it's not easy being on the run. People are often in danger of being caught in a man's room or in other activities. Then it is the men who go first to take the rest of the family with them. This is the thing we forget very often. I just say, if people try to come here, at the end of the world, on some rock in the middle of the Atlantic, there are people we want here. [[The president calls.]] To people who do so much work, we should just say, "Welcome. "
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u17	The President has the right to say that the time in reply is limited and asks for it. Senators respecting it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u18	A respectable president. I feel very positive that we are discussing this series, development, and development aid, under the merits of this series. A senator does. We're sorry to hear it here in this room, as in the community discussion, that instead of looking at things that are not just right to provide help and help, it's a big opportunity for an Icelandic community if it's well done. I think this discussion is very positive, and thank you very much. A senator very much for his detailed review. Now we like to compare ourselves with the northern countries and view them as our sister and cousin countries, and we normally want to meet them. We are, for example. It is proud of our success in equality, but we know that the North countries are strong in that category. I would be interested to hear the senator tell us how this comparison appeared to him, perhaps also on the basis of the political issues presented and general discussion. Does he consider it a policy and conduct of the Icelandic government to be a non - Biblical comparison?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u19	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good question, and I would like to give you an answer. As mentioned here, Iceland is to rise from 0.32 to 0.35% of GDP. Norway has 1.02%, Sweden with 0.9%, Denmark with 0.71%. The only northern nation that's this close to us is Finland with 0.42%. Internationally, this context has much to do with the northern countries. They talk about how well they're doing in this, and Iceland's going to forget a little bit about that conversation because we're not doing too well. In fact, we are doing well in certain areas, e.g. in equality and in supporting multi-time cooperation, such as UN Women. That's what we're doing, at least proportionately, according to an appeal number. Hv. A senator mentioned the northern countries, but I wanted to mention one small country in Europe, for perhaps we need to compare ourselves more with small countries, and that's Luxembourg, which provides 1.05% of the gross domestic product in this group of languages. I've been working closely with Luxembourg in the field, and it's really nice to see how they have organized themselves in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u20	A respectable president. Of course, reasonableness has to be exercised and that we are considerably smaller than the northern nations. But it is also true that even taking into consideration an appeal number, the reality is what it is. But I like to look at what is done well, and I try to learn from it. Hv. A senator mentions the exact equality issues, and I think that we are now a nation very proud of our voice in international equality. I'd be interested to hear from you. A senator: In what other areas, such as in the wide lines, does he see an opportunity for Iceland in the international context of this category? Where are the sprouts?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u21	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good question. I think what we do in such a foreign assignment is gonna save us ten times the cost here at people's receptions, and we're not even trying to figure out what we're doing to improve people's lives. I believe, however, that there are many opportunities, especially when it comes to things related to climate, green energy use and innovation. New creation is also a language group that can help developing countries raise objects, so to speak, it is not a matter of strengthening women in starting small companies and doing such things. There's a lot of opportunities.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u22	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the talk, a fine and useful summary, and the question he raised to me. First, I just want to reiterate and emphasize the importance of developing cooperation in general. I agree with what. A member of the body may feel that the most important thing to do is to look out for people to help build the area at home, that we are doing what we can, and where we are helping them to stand on their own feet. Of course, one of the richest countries in the world is to be a full partner in developing cooperation, and we are. I want us to look forward to where we are strong, where our strengths lie, because that is how we do the most good, so I join both sides. A senator and, of course, our foreign policy up until now, where we have stressed the importance of creating a bullion project, a hot fever school, the emphasis on equality, and the education of girls. It would be interesting to see if anything new or otherwise could be done when it comes to such a basic approach in the area, since it may not necessarily need to get started, which may be bigger. Likewise, when it comes to other greener energy, because it is simply a huge matter, whether it is about air quality, or how certain areas produce food, whether it is coffee beans or anything, where we can simply improve the quality of life of the people in the area. And it's a good thing to feel that Iceland's factors are generally noticed. But always, of course, we can do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u23	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister to the counter, and it was a pleasure to hear that a minister wants to continue doing good things in this regard. But I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to use our own aid organisation and to build things through them, as the Minister of the Minister of Work did so well, whether it is a new highest priority. Minister to continue to increase the share that goes through it. I also wanted to hear what a minister has to say about our extended support through UN Women and United Nations Children's Fund, whether it is intended to increase it from year to year. We need to be careful that we are not trying to do everything but, rather, we will find certain assignments that are good for us and that we can do good things and because we can do something beyond our own size. This has been true for example. The issues of equality, including on human rights, are heard in Iceland's voice and the effects of Iceland are found in these limited areas. It's about us making use of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u24	Mr. President. I have greatly increased cooperation with a group when it comes to this work in general, and of course, I am willing to further improve such cooperation and examine ways of setting up an increased share of money through such work. Of course, the UN Women and the United Nations Children's Fund are doing outstanding work, and I agree with it. A senator that it is more likely to produce results, in fact, than perhaps our size or budget, may be the result of having a clear focus and based on the strengths we have. However, whether and how a particular increase will be made only to be seen. Likewise, I will want to sit down with all these organizations and simply get it into the vein and get them to talk about how we can expand our cooperation because this is one of the positive things we all agree on and want to do better, and we all agree on how important the work of this organization is, and we all want to be more supportive of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u25	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-sponsore. It's my hope to the highest. A minister is now taking these matters seriously during his new election period and in his new job. There I offer and probably others inside who have worked in this field for our experience and knowledge. I'd like to encourage the highest, too. Ministers to visit refugee camps and even war - torn lands. It is an experience that would greatly help to identify the issues involved. It is also my hope that in the years to come, there will be an increase in actual development support, not just a scribal scaffold.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u26	A respectable president. Coming in here as a new senator is a great lesson and coming here in the present situation, I think, just very special. We are now just before Christmas trying to reach out in a few days of how we're going to live a whole nation, and I think it's very special, so it's not that strong. We are taking hold of the basis of people's lives and pondering over some thousands of billions of people, and this is only to be done with one hand in the final record. I can't quite get around this. I'll be sitting as an agent on a budget board, and I'll have to keep myself in line to figure out what's going to happen. You understand this document that we're arguing about right now and going through the conclusion that will be something other than the fact that ministers, who suddenly came into existence and the Ministry, who came into existence all at once and no one knew about except those three sitting at the top, will make their wishes that could become great. A respectable president. So when we're looking at budgets that are supposed to deliver 170 billion in minus, and Prime Ministers notice in the media that the cost of these changes is uncertain, they don't know. Is this cost worth tens of millions, or is it worth hundreds of millions? Based on what we have heard here this morning and on the need to help people in various situations, you do not realize that they are under attack at this point. I just can't get it. Is it a matter of advice to start spending money on such things now that they know there are plenty of people in need who are not really receiving support and service? We hear from relief agencies now that they have not been able to expand. It is the same amount of letter that people are able to shop at a bonus, but the price of goods has increased so that you may obtain three fourths of your thigh now that you could buy full by the last Christmas. I don't think we're in December wondering about such things. I just can't get it. I've been trying to figure out how it is on this budget bill and I feel like everything is screwed up on the top end of the income and trying to step on the expenses as far as possible. Foremen on the income side are such that the fur line is to rise. We're going to hunt these 700,000 tons, I think they're what they're supposed to be. But now we hear that it is not easy to find a hairy stick, nor is it easy to catch it, so we do not know if it works out. It is also assumed that the tourist industry will be in only a blues next year, a total of 1.4 million tourists next year. They're probably 700,000 this year, and they were 400,000 last year. It is to double the number next year and lay the groundwork on the nation's income next year. I think it's special. Then there is a forecast of significant economic growth that may be practical, but the forecasters do not agree. AGS assumes a 4.1% interest rate at the same time as the Navy says 5.3. The mean of these existing economic forecasting is 4.9%. What's right? Should you take the top, take the bottom, or take the average average? But the best is clearly being chosen. What does it mean if AGS projections come true and economic growth becomes only 4.1%? We need to see these stage shots, what can happen. Will the income be set up in this bill? That's a lot of questions. There is a list of agents that count more than 30 persons and that will likely be improved by a number. They've suggested a call to at least Three or four more of them on the list already available, so I think a financial committee will be sitting sweaty in the next few weeks trying to get a hold of this so that you can go to 2nd. The money for Christmas. There are also some things in this bill that call my attention to being a senator of the South American District. We heard from here in the beginning that there was a challenge from the Country Club Horning on the construction of a nursing home, and there's nothing to see in this budget that they're wondering about it. When I try to read this, I realize that there are 1.5 billion expected to complete the construction of a nursing home in New York, which is now scratched and can be completed. Then they are made up of 28 compartments in Stykkistoli. I don't see in the budget bill that there's a plan for the construction of a nursing home in the South. Maybe it's somewhere, I just don't know how to read it, but I thought it would be weird after everything that happened, we've been fighting the Ministry to get it started after signing a contract in February 2019, not doing anything on the financial bill. The hospital is drowning, he and medical institutions are filled with sick people who might be in other types of service, including nursing homes. I don't understand that they're not building less expensive resources than keeping people in hospitals when they might be in other types of care. It is very difficult to grasp why you are working this way. It's also interesting, having been fighting for a new health care center in South Australia, where there's only 30,000 people living, and there's only one medical facility - there are 4,000 people who drive the Smokeyanes Way to see a doctor in Reykjavík - that it's estimated that 100 million go to prepare for health care that's been fighting for many years. 100 million. It's just a drop in the ocean. It takes about a billion to build a nursery. I can't figure out what it's like not getting started in the construction of these measures to ease the stress of medical institutions. I can't get a grip on this. Downtown, 3700 people live. There's no situation there. There is no health service in the Southnesy town.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u27	Mr. President. I thought it was kind of good how you did it. A senator expressed it; ministers who came into existence; no one knew of but the presidents themselves. Not even the people who wrote these financial laws knew of the additional minister, since the legal rights to a remuneration minister remain unchanged from the last budget, even though one minister is added to it. Not only can it be called a distranslation, this demonstrative thing, with the leaders all around this system of government, not just to the nation or to us in the government position, but to their own people and employees of the advisers, is entirely astrogenic. Because of it. A senator has an experience as a local director of the Smokeytown town for quite some time then I think he'll probably agree with me, and I imagine most of the people in this room, that sometimes only has to jump in the control system. Sometimes committees or advisers need to be changed so that they can do better, maybe get better control of the situation in the country or the state at that time, that they will achieve the State and government or rural government goals. Might have a bit of a problem. At the time, a senator had access to such organizational changes in the city of Rhines. But is it not proper to start at the other end, start by performing diagnostics, talk with the people who do the work to see how these changes can be used for good rather than merely bringing some government covenant on top of Mount Sinai, saying: "Here is this? That's what it's supposed to be, folks, all in the boats?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u28	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yes, I've come to such changes in my duties as a platoon leader. I'm in my fourth term in rural management, so I've been in rural management for 16 years, I've been participating in rural politics since 1998, and I've been involved in some things in that field. But, of course, that's small compared to what's being done here. I think that when the government is formed when the year is over, and budgets have to be before the end of the year, it is inconceivable to do this in this way. Of course, it is possible to create a labour agreement, which means that the management arrangement is being changed during the election period. Then there may be a natural problem. A senator mentioned, taking a diagnostic look at things, as we do at the state level. We employ experts who help us examine the organization we are working on and whether it serves the interests we are trying to achieve. But we do not necessarily have to do this at first. In May, rural governments usually take over, allowing the budget to be established before the next year's budget is due. So I feel that making such changes during the last few years is completely inconceivable and that the cost is uncertain. I just think it's crazy.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u29	Mr. President. It's just a natural and simple solution to just say in the topic agreement what you're going to do next year or two in a control system change. Farmers all over the country do it that way. This is how the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir did. There were extensive and necessary changes in the management system, but this was not done without analysis, without consultation with employees. It was done just like that. A senator, in saying in a government contract: We want to strengthen the Ministry so that they do their work better. Then they sort of took the entire ultimatum period, two basic steps. The major step was taken in the winter of 2010◯2011, followed by the release of the final issue of 2012-2013 at the time of the Environment and Resource Ministry and the Ministry of Employment. It's not that complicated. This shows respect for the staff, and this shows respect for the project to win this, yes, on the basis of political vision, but in a professional way, not by political affiliation all the way. But I didn't mean to spend much time with it. I'm counting on it. A senator, though only an officer on a budget board, will follow this closely because this is important in the context of the budget. I just want to talk to you about the situation in the area, on the Smokey Peninsula. The government's summer meeting was held at the Salt House in Grindavik in August, reminded me, where the ministers came in very cheerfully and claimed that they had listened extensively to the locals. But I understand why. The senator might not have received much of what was said at that meeting. [[The president calls.]] It is not much to see in this bill that deals with the particular position of the Southnes and in most respects.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u30	A respectable president. I'm not going to argue that these changes that take place are not valid. But to my knowledge, they're wrong timing. I think it would have been better to go slow down and try to work this better to get around it and that everyone could handle the changes that happen, not just these three people mentioned here, but all members of Congress and staff, so we could be careful. Yes, there was a meeting in Grindavík, and I was at that meeting. There have been many meetings, and I'm just going to thank the government for the fact that when WOW fell 2019, there were many meetings and considered opportunities to help the rural areas of Southnes at that time. But they really were just a joke, considering what happened in Covid. The lack of employment around WOW was about 10% and then goes up to 25% in the Covid situation when the airport is just closed. I guess that's about it. 40% of what we're doing in Southnes, which will be created by the air station and linked activity, so this has a significant impact on the rural population. Despite the effectiveness of the specific projects being done, they did not work for those still on unemployment benefits, the 25% on unemployment. It didn't help them, since the unemployment reform period was the shortest part of the century.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u31	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the talk and must state that I am quite concerned with the irresponsibleness of the government of not having an idea of the cost of the disparagement of all these schemes. Last night I tried to get some information from the prime minister, who is, yes, the director or rather the president of this company, the Iceland government, who should have a preview of the work ahead of us. I came to the empty cabin when it came to answering one thing: the perspective, the assessment of the project; the benefits, and most important of all, the costs. Now, it's not that this is the first time these three members of the government are having these operations. During the last term, the Ministry of Health was broken down, and the cost plan was to transfer the equality issues from the Ministry of Social Affairs to the Ministry for Presidency was 270 million, just for this, just for transporting this one project between the Ministry of Social Affairs to the Ministry and for the purposes of replacement. There wasn't going to be an increase in recruitment, just dividing them up, just creating a wall between, between, between, 270 million just for that. That's the plan. [[The president calls.]] We know what it's like for government plans, that they tend to swell out. [[The president calls.]] So this is some kind of a feeling that we can have on what happened to 2018-2019. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u32	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer, as well as for the information she's been putting out here, that this unique transition that took place there cost 270 million. K. On schedule. Besides, we don't know what it cost when it was up. But it's kind of important to hear these numbers, 270 million, that we're supposed to split up there. We know that it was only the Ministry of Presidency, the Ministry of Financial Affairs and the Department of Transport that got the most peace, and the rest was set on a fleet. If that number is 270 million. K., would it be repeated with any figure that might arise when we learn what is going on, what goes on between recruitment and which employees are moving to, who needs to be told, and who must be hired - about this new Ministry, which is called VIN, people have been hired to work to get it back on the ground, and it will not be for free? It will be interesting to see the multiplication number in this, with which of which we should multiply these 270 million to get the final result.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u33	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Yes, in the case I was involved, one project was being taken from one Ministry and transferred to another, and the expense arms of that move were 200 million. K. Some employees had to be increased because it was the government's will to promote equality, which is respectable. 70 million. K. was just the crude budget of dividing it up. In other words, there was not a growing number of stewards. Because of what? A senator said that the Ministry of Presidency, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and the Ministry of Federal Affairs may be the only department that doesn't have a fleet of these developments that we watch, which is one of the greatest divisions in the Iceland Government of the Republic's History, we'll have to carry it out, unsubstantiated operation, so it's not. They're building a new superintendent, which takes all the planning from the Environment Ministry, the Department of Social Affairs, so we can imagine what a great deal of growth it is to take place only in that department. The number of staff needs to be considerable, etc., apart from the fact that if we watch e.g. in the Ministry of Education, it can be assumed that in the Ministry of Education there is much cooperation with staff across school levels so that the same employee can be used in several ways. However, education is now being taken and distributed on at least Three departments. Then you realize that certain employees are not being able to fit in with school ladders but on the contrary. And the government has, in fact, admitted that there will be a significant increase in staff in the Management Board. And those who happen to know that probably 200 of the Council's 700 employees will be transferred to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u34	A respectable president. You know, when you hear this, you just sort of lose hands. We have been listening to those who have pointed out what we could be doing for people in need, to benefit. Right away. A senator mentions all these things, and I have stopped thinking for tens of billions, and I have stopped thinking for hundreds of millions. We must start thinking some larger numbers than what will normally be added to the 170 billion square that has been drawn up in that bill that will not be. I ask, What is the priority at this point? Are we just going to play with us if this one's gonna sit in this chair or that one or that one, right there or in here? Is this what we should be stressing at this point? It has been suggested that we have a real problem supporting people in need compared to the rest of the North countries. If we were, for example. To spend 1 billion to put into the psychological bill that was approved here last year instead of being doing this, would it not be much more beneficial to spend the money in it or to support refugees, to put this in development aid, or to raise child support, or to do anything other than just playing with us in an area?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u35	V.E.G. President. I've been paying attention to 1st. of the Bjarni son of Benediktsson, secretary of finance and economy, here in the days past, and I have thought it to be illuminating, materially and good and to give voters, the public, a good picture of what's going on here. This, of course, is our work here at the High Council, to inform us, to look through and through and provide what is needed by each member of the board. I've been disappointed, but I can't say that I'm surprised, that the members of the government, members of the council, who support this government, have not shared much in this discussion. I hope they accept the Committee themselves, in case. The budget, and maybe the 2nd. Who knows? Thus, democracy is now active, through grammatical communication, and the development of governments. Councilmen, can argue as to why they follow one method rather than another, one approach rather than the other. But what may be clear here is that the debate and the budget bill, its text, have given clear light to the fact that a new Ministry, the second secretary to the daughter of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, was the highest. To some extent, the prime minister, as I feared, is formed for the lowest political commons in the most distant political parties. But this is, in effect, a dual approach because one is that, of course, three political parties do not agree on all points and have different emphasis. That's when this path has gone the lowest common number that we actually saw the entire last terms. But it is also this way, as it has been noted, that there are certainly a very large number of cases in which the direction of the left green, the advance party, and the independence party fall into one and the same direction that flows there. This policy has been taught to do the same. I don't know if it's the right word, but it kind of describes it. Above all, it is about the status of the unchanged power system, the unchanged resource system, and the status of those who have the power of the wealth in this community. And we all know where the wealth will be in Iceland. It will be the use of natural resources, it will, of course, be available in commerce and services to some extent, but the key to Iceland is access to natural resources, has always been, and will become a future because it seems to me that this financial bill should not be tried in any way to build for new export projects or to use the human resources in the country in ways of looking for progress and development in the field of employment. All right. V.E.G. Prime Minister has discussed that the government is covering the political colors. She may do so in certain litigation groups, but I think she's kind of colory. It changes color, and it depends on what will be discussed regarding where that government is to come down. That's what happens, of course, the highest. President, when political parties take up the task voluntarily and with open eyes, for the second time in four years, to blow up the political landscape in Iceland. We have discussed this in this discussion, and there have been many discussions in the community, and there was a certain understanding of why left greens went on government work four years ago. But I can't describe my disappointment as a conjugal woman and an equal figure that a class that teaches itself on the left and green has twice in four years made a deliberate, cold, political decision to continue working with the two groups that we as the older are known as the halves, since in the last century, throughout the republic, they have had all the strands of power in this country in their hands. They have maintained the sharing of quality information, whether it was for the contractors who served the Army while on Centraleshörf, sharing with those who were allowed to import or not here in the old days, who bought the tugs, the sharing of the resource rights and how it has gone, etc. And then I have not begun to talk about how these two classes have for decades organized all their people efficient and well into the positions of authority in which these groups feel they need to be. It may be the most intimate system of judgment. Citynes comes to mind. - But you have to move forward and build up. Will this government do that? Unfortunately, there is little evidence in the budget. Of course, the budget is to keep the work that needs to be done in the country. I'd like to quote. paritaprevir The union, Kristrún Frostadóttir, representing us on the budgetary committee, has shown that the budget is written in black in white not to cover other significant new expenditures except for those related to the conditions caused by the colony's pandemic. This actually means what we know after reading the bill, that, of course, the government intends to react to the conditions that have occurred since the pandemic of the crown virus. Of course. But is she going to do something more? Will she look to the long future? Will it build up? No, that's not what this government is going to do. This bill does not indicate that none of these are in the tubes. The scheme, however, to improve, such as raising an older citizen's holiday target, is a spontaneous operation, but we all know, because every political party in Iceland has taken a look at it and made it a promise in the success of elections, that the rise of the income markets of older citizens will affect about 1,500 of 40,000 people who accept pensions. Of course, increasing the decrease in pension reserves is quite another and much larger procedure, leading to a much greater equation and a much greater need than the one needed here, though it is fine as far as it reaches. This has been published many times, reminding us of the regularity of talks. Councilmen say it's as if it does not concern this government with the terms of those who have impaired skills and/or live with disability, the terms of disabled people in Iceland. Yes, it's offered 1% over a raise, if I recall correctly, which inflation will eat up naturally if it continues in this way. There's no mention of the baloney between the lowest salary and the benefits, 80,000 dollars. That is a marvelous sum for every man, man, and woman in the land that needs disability. Then there is not a single market for employment, which, as everyone knows, has been in the same place for 12 years since Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir was a social minister in Iceland. I'd like to take this opportunity for a second, topv. To mention the material that leading women of the labor movement have mentioned in recent days, the president wrote about news articles. The ASI president, Snædal, says that clearly, i.e. status of the housing system, status of the housing market. We in the United States have spoken about it and, of course, would like to promote the general housing system. That's even. has been done by double the productions, and we do not feel that it is simply too much to do because it is a way to build safe and good and cheap housing for people with low income or medium income, and it returns to them. A rescue has shown that it returns directly to the employees'pockets. This has been a requirement for the labor movement, self - determination, and natural; for all of us know that housing is the basis for the well - being and benefit of every person in this country. Without housing security, the risk of poverty, health problems, and other bad consequences is very high, and we bring up problems, if I may say so indiscriminately, by not ensuring security. Of course, by improving the contribution to the public housing system, we are also taking serious measures to increase the market supply. Increasing the supply reduces the prices, as everyone knows. In the end, it's good for everyone to do that. The number of apartments on markets is high, and, of course, it should affect the whole market is good for all. As we know about the housing market, although we call it market, and it, of course, submits to some of the laws of supply and demand, it is that if we just leave it in the hands of the markets, the poorest groups should have no opportunity to get a roof over their heads, rent or own them. So I agree with the ASI president, I need big parties and there's no new news. This has been discussed for years. The one sitting in her previous job in a group of campaigns for housing that likely came to an end three years ago. The government had a long list of projects that needed to be attacked. Of course, some have been attacked, but some have, for example. not only one of the most important points was to promote the market protection of tenants, key to housing. - If I'd understood the highest. Budget and economic secretary rightfully intends the Government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter to raise the bounds of child reform or support for parents who have their own children to $390,000. For everyone to understand that correctly, it means that child damage will begin to reduce the income that is 390,000 k, which is close to the minimum wage in the country. I don't know if I'm supposed to say this, but, yes, it really disappoints me because I think no matter where we are, we must agree that equalizing the ideals of children and young people in this country is the most important thing we can do as politicians, the most important thing. The best way to balance the status of children and young people in Iceland is by supporting their parents, known as child support. The very best way to do that. It lifts children out of poverty, gives social opportunities that they don't otherwise have, and creates balance and balance in the community, which I hope we all want. Therefore, our neighboring countries have always a new child reform system, which is their main tax system, and that is what we should do. I am a member of the United States who wants to raise these limitations much more and do so so that we can provide support for families in the country and for the parents of children that are important to them, who free children who have poor parents from poverty traps and who give them opportunities that they would not otherwise have. We have to change this, and we need to sense our responsibility in preparing for the youngest generations of this country so that they have real opportunities to educate, to develop, to pursue leisure time, and to become mature adults in a democracy society that thinks they can suggest, want to be involved, are active participants. This is our most important role as politicians. I'm not getting off it. I just want to talk about the big talk about government employees. The director of BSRB, Ýr Þorbergsdóttir, points out this in a fine article that appeared yesterday. Medical, educational, health - based personnel are being discussed in social services as a problem for society. These are the same professions, the same people who have kept Iceland going for two years in a pandemic. The nurses, the nursery teachers, the firemen, the bus drivers, and others mention, the people who see to it that we can do our job, that we get health care, that our children get education, the people who clean up all their homes and all the people who have come here to help us in a job market from other countries to do our jobs that we just don't have people, very many of them are public employees. I find myself reviewing, especially in view of the obvious successes and sacrifices made in these professions in the last two years, that humans allow themselves to discuss the entire classes as some result of society. This is not an acceptable debate, and I agree with the head of the BSRB, which states that members of big firms and professional spokesmen should allow themselves to speak in this way. I'd like to finally discuss what has been so much discussed here this morning and yesterday in this discourse, which is the great organizational change in the Board of Directors. I can totally admit that I think it's good to jump up often. I think that's a good way of adapting the government to demand, to change circumstances, and also to focus on governments, and not to comment on that. But I comment on the lack of preparation and complete uncertainty about how much these changes will cost. We know in particular that when those in charge make such changes without doing this financial work plan - if she exists, I haven't seen her, and it would be good to get her out, maybe she'll come up to the point. The budget, how do I know, is more likely than less likely to get out of control and that the unpredicted cost sheet up somewhere in the process. This tells itself, and there is no new information. It is also on this side that Friðrik Jónsson, chairman of BHM, the League of Colleges, has pointed to and written at the highest level. The prime minister about that letter, of course, is that all of this staff in the Board of Directors has rights as public employees, and people cannot be accounted for just in some way. They need to be careful that their rights at a job market, they need to be kept in agreement. In fact, I think most of the Council of Control realize that it needs to be done. But it is equally important in this context to inform people where they are going and why, what new projects will be done, and as BHM's chairman put them so well this week, where they should be at work, and where the environment will be. Many changes in work areas can cause much uncertainty and feelings, we know them, and what may be the best way to avoid such changes is to create unnecessary uncertainty. We know that when people have to work in an environment where they don't know exactly what they are, or they change every day, or they move on to some other department or whatever they are, they simply reduce the quality of work, production, and slowing down. Without any unnecessary pessimism, I think, based on the way the planning is done or on the lack of preparation, it is not likely that it will not be as much production at the Board of Directors for the next month as it would be. All of this needs to be taken into account because it's just a part of the control system we're keeping out, and we want the project to go fast and smooth. Then there's one of them all last time. A president, who would do well to consider also here at 1st. for financial and economic Commission: One of the things this new government is going to do is create something called the Environment, Energy and Resource Ministry. The point is pretty obvious, I think. But what is not being done here may be what needs to be considered. This is a misapproached opportunity to establish the National Department of Human Resources, where all natural resources would come under, and the linking force would be there. As we know then, this series of cases has been distributed to several departments for a very long time, and although it had been a big step in the development of the government, if it had taken the step of starting at last the government Department of Resources under the Management Board, would have been of importance and status to which it was taken. We all know, and it's obvious that by inserting energy into the Environment Ministry, it's being natural to create a range of energy exchanges in which the line needs to be more activated in order for energy exchange to take place. The purpose of the weekend, and it will somehow become an independent force, approaching the important task, the energy exchange that it is, in a way, that it has become a kind of program for activation. It will be interesting to watch for new heights. The Environment, Energy and Resource Minister will be able to cope with these important and major challenges. I'm going to agree with the viewpoints that have been presented, including From a spokeswoman of the Land Protector, it appears that nature protection issues and other views, which must always be in the head of the Environment Ministry, have been carried out in these programmes. It's something important, at least. President, that in the entire climate and climate discussion and the disaster, which is truly our biggest subject in this century, sometimes forgets that it is also our task to protect the diversity of living things, of the agreement that is also the agreement of the United Nations. I'm concerned if the government and its supporters think there's a single solution in the climate, the only thing that needs to be done in Iceland in the next few years is to stimulate energy exchange, because we certainly have a place that could create more problems and more conflict than if we approach the climate issues from all directions, which is, of course, what we need to do. They're going to have to cut through every class of cases at the Board of Directors. Everything we do, everything we decide, all the activities of the government, everything in the government, must be aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions. It is a major task, and that is how it is to be approached.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u36	Mr. President. Hv. A senator was for a time an environmental minister; that was the short name at that time, in 2007◯2009. We know what has allowed us to do for this long period of time as far as the discussion has developed, regardless of what seemed radical, and really just crazy radically radically hard - and - hard in 2007 - 2009 is by no means nearly enough at this time. During my last month at the meeting of the United Nations Climate Committee in Glasgow, I began to wonder if people like us who have been in this business for a long time would be becoming an independent problem in the battle against climate change, provided that the person had not changed the rhythm of that time. I know that me and what. In recent years, a senator has recreated a track that is seen, for example, in recent years. ... we'regroupingat my bill for increased ambition, transparency, and the maintenance of climates, which is the longest that's ever been going on here in this hall. But I wondered if the people at the government table still have a government contract to determine the results of what would have been extremely effective ten years ago, if that were the problem. In Glasgow, I experienced, as I was in the hall with those in charge, as much as on the street in 100,000 protests of young people who do not understand the inactivity, who do not understand the slow course that the more experienced people view as slow movement, but as a large leap forward compared to what they used to. Could this be one of the reasons why the governments of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, have accepted as little as they do in climate matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u37	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the answer. Hv. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson wants to know if I and he's getting in the way. I hope not, I think many of the things we're doing here and offering proof to everything else. I've had the option of sitting in the COP 4 times. Of course, there are tremendous, complex negotiations between governments and experts, but what may be the most important of them are the local members, the people who are on the scene, the people who are under pressure for serious action. Happily, we are now under intense pressure from young people and their youngest generations, who do not understand why it is proper for us to rob them in the future, which is, of course, not okay. I still think there's some point to it. A senator says about old standards, and maybe that's what I was trying to describe when I mentioned here the lowest political candidate. The independent class and forwarding class of major climate operations criteria are to be, and they're completely different from left green standards, depending on the way that class talks and if you read the policy. But that, of course, is what happens in this capricious government. It seems that people begin to accept less success, but they know that they can do so in a different context.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u38	Mr. President. It's natural when we mix up all the colors of the rainbow, we get brown. This is not the most exciting form of government. Right away. A member of the Environment Minister, I remember that she sometimes talked about the Ministry as a kind of dissident in the government, who may have been especially true as she sat at the table with the Independence Party. This is the experience we had with Guðmundur Ingi Guðbrandsson in his last term, where he was a dissident with a rather small backland to achieve some serious action against the opposing forces. But what happens to this balance when the Independence Party has come to be the dissident for climate and environment at the board? Then all of this gets disturbed and it doesn't know what's good.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u39	President. How sad it is that in 2021, the first part of the 21st century, environmental ministers must be in the role of dissidents! That's kind of what's really exciting about this position, and it's obviously worrying me, as I just described earlier, that the Independence Party with its environmental and climate policies has arrived at this Ministry. Of course, it's not because I think a new minister, Gudleful Þórðarson, won't be a good worker in his Ministry. I'm afraid he'll be way too diligent on the wrong grounds and it won't bring us the results we need. Hv. A senator refers to my office seat a few years ago at the Ministry Department. Of course, it was quite true, it was a struggle, and it required dissidents, and it demanded a huge weight on the side of the Union to get the Independence Party to abandon the pressure we so called on in climates, to stop talking as if Iceland had to do nothing. Fortunately, we have moved on. But we still hear the highest. Minister of this government, this brand new government, cites the heating operations as if that is what we can still build on. We've already received what we had, and much more for the thermal work on climate contracts. That's something else we should be doing. But it's missing -- I don't know how to say it -- it's always being decorated, not stolen feathers in this case, but old and tired feathers. We need to stop.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u40	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for a good review and coverage. I immediately stopped at the beginning of the talk about where wealth will be made in the community and agrees with her opinion that it may not be expected that significant changes will occur. But I'm busy with my experience of being on the board of administration and surveillance committee at the last council, which was being discussed with Prime Minister on the change in constitution. A significant change would have been a new resource directive. There were lines and lines of conflict, I'd like to say, very clear, if the council were willing to define the word national property in the Constitution itself, so that the word gets meaning, meaning what it means that a resource is a national property and what it means to have into society all. Of course, it has the influence of what is normal, just, and reasonable currency that mirrors the message in society that the currency takes into account that this is a national property, but if it is moderate enough, companies in this article will do well. So the other factor on the temporary binding of agreements to justify that because the resource is owned, companies are not entrusted with ownership, but are given the use and management of the specified time. The slaughtering of that bill came to the left of the green itself. Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé spoke very clearly and clearly to the committee that the matter had not been made. In view of the terms of a constitution in a government covenant, what is the senator's expectations of changes in these subjects during this ideal period?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u41	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's question. I have developed the habit of looking forward to hope, not fearing difficult assignments, and coping with them and trying to solve them. I also believe that it is the role of politicians to solve problems but not create them. It may happen too often that they are made. It is quite clear that this huge issue ran out here at the end of the last terms in such a way that the Constitution is impossible to read but that this government and the three government groups have given up on the project. It seems to me that way about what's written there. This, however, must not happen. So it is our role here in the mediating and more powerful government opposition and of us who are on the board of administration and monitoring committees to keep the Constitution on the agenda of the council. I agree with what. A senator on its approach to the importance of having the resource rules in the constitution. We know that as long as employment freedom is protected by the Constitution, while the exclusive rights is protected by the Constitution rather than by the resources and nature of the country, there will always be a difference between which we will be harmed, in my opinion. Our most important task is to place natural protection and environmental laws in the Constitution, and we must not give up on it even if the government deal does not give us much hope.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u42	A respectable president. Yeah, give up and give up. It was also quite clear that it was not in itself an application of a subject on the part of all the governmental parties to enter into the gift of real meaning and meaning of the word national property. In this context, it may be unfair to stand here and mention the left green one about that conclusion, for there you could see no better than the three government groups walking hand in hand. But I'm glad to see this vision of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and Commission. I would also like to mention the significance of this claim, that it is clear from the beginning to what the senator's mind stands, because I felt uncomfortable sitting under it when it turned out the way it did. I think a lot of us have figured out how the matter was going to go and should have gone away, that the council was living with it because, of course, it was the government itself that handled matters in a way that did not become any further.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u43	V.E.G. President. Of course, it is true. paritaprevir The Þorbjörg of Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir points out that the old government had made such an arrangement for the knots, and it was only clear as soon as it became clear that there was one minister on the bill, that it could not then be blamed for having had the strength to finish the bill and finish the suggestions. It was perfectly clear to all those who have observed and observed these matters. I'd also like to use this opportunity now and agree to the senator's comments on the importance of giving the term national property input and meaning and that the resource directive has become a constitution, and that it is said to be clear. I've been doing less work for the United States as a political party spoken for the national property of resources, for calling in and offering markets, for doing so in that way that we show that we can do this. This has been done in our neighboring countries, and this can be done. Of course, it has been a matter of conflicting interests, and these same interests have many politicians, and I have nothing hidden. But let's think, the highest. President, if we'd started at the turn of the century, e.g. ... withtheinduction of fishing warrants and their auction of several percent a year... we would have been far enough to correct this fundamental crisis in Icelandic society, even if it had been solved.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u44	Mr. President. I asked to have the highest. Environment, energy and climate minister here to answer a few questions I will present at the end of the speech. But first, I have to pick up a few threads that we talked about last night regarding what Prime Minister calls the expansion of the Council's flexibility and action in that direction. I think we can all agree that it's a good thing that the Board of Management is a little flexible, that there's a way to shape a Ministry of the Day and break down those silos we call sometimes, I'm having a bit of a problem, though, because they always give me the impression of the sanctuaries in the country. But I guess this is what we call it. And this has to be done. In neighboring lands, we can see that the board of directors is quicker, that they can be compartmented according to the way the politicians call, but they are also built up for change. On the basis of all of this, laws have been built on how these changes are carried out, how to consult staff. Prime Minister, for example, says she wants to reexamine the Board of Directors, but only later. First, she wants to change, so she wants to build the ground for such changes to be what goes and happens. That's obviously the wrong end. It begins by moving a third of the Council's Council and a project between recruitment and just on political grounds, apparently. This surprises people so much that they are not even expected to receive a new minister's salary on the budget bill that the same people offer and offer these suggestions. I mean, Mr. President, this is a small change in the position of prime minister because for this point, she has not wanted to view the Council of Government as a unit, but as the individual member of the Ministry. There I'd like to review an answer received from the Þrídstein Þorsteinn of Víglundsson for the equally payoff of the Board of Directors. When the council passed a law on equally pay-authority and knew that by the regulations it was under increasing pressure on companies and organizations, we said here at the council: Let's just take a good example. Let the council be in its first session, and let the Council also be better, letting it be better and allow the Council to be equally paid as a unit because the sex - paid difference in the Council of Control is shown not only within counsel but between them because some of them are considered to be more important than others, and the sex system plays into it. The answer came from the prime minister, and it says, by permission of the president: As we know, Iceland's government is not a multi-organized administration, and it is considered to be a special institution and a special administration... According to the above, there were no legal grounds for following the emphasis of a greater part of the General and Education Committee that are listed in the Committee on the Issue and referred to above. In a committee program and in a change of motion, the General stated that this was to be done. The prime minister just said, "No, sorita, of course it's silo, we can't do anything." But okay, now that there's another sound coming from here, it's when the flexibility is about a minister's freedom to manipulate staff and projects. I'd much rather we talk, for example. the freedoms of staff to move within this 700-manpower that Iceland's Management Board is because it's been way too small. There have been laws for decades, even decades, between recruitment practices, and this could be a very good part of the individual's development of work. But I think the sexual difference in pay that exists between recruitment practices is, for example, a. one of the obstacles and many other reasons. Hence, the right end must be started and the rule of the Council must be adjusted before the universal reorganization as it is now. - Then we talked about something last night's cost. Hv. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir recalls when the Ministry of Health was divided into Social Affairs and Health, that would have cost 70 million. Then I did it for a game to look up a question from 2010 from the present noise. paritaprevir Godlighted Þórðarson, asking for the total cost of a state fund of change in hot planning, no organizational changes, just changes in hot planning. According to the financial minister of that time, it was more than 3 billion. K. who placed on four Ministry Departments who had a new name for reflecting more political emphasis. The cost was mostly to change the meanings and signs, letters, card cards, and greeting cards, to buy new stamps, and to change websites and language files and a variety of themes. This is naturally in the large context of small costs and perhaps even more symbolic, but it has not been considered, none of these. One of the changes proposed by the current government is to change the terms of the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Internal Affairs without any change to the inside. There goes a million out the window for nothing. There is to be a new minister in office, preparing a seat for one more minister so that the government groups can maintain the right balance of power within the government. How much for one minister? It's 25 million. K. In a year, only in pay. It is good to mark the same amount that was taken from the Syndicate ◯78 when they were released from the budget bill for another year in a row. I'm just going to say, Mr. President, that I'd rather have the Syndicate in the budget than struggle to increase the number of recruitment groups so that progress can sit on more chairs, most incredible than true. So let us not forget that the changes we are now making in the Council of Government that were made in the long government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir were nothing to the air but were part of the government covenant of that government. There was an entire section on the administrative reforms that would reduce the number of budgets and encourage them to handle their tasks better, saying, by permission of the president: ▪ A brief consultation will be made with staff, public, and stakeholders and will endeavor to create general understanding and solidarity on the need for these changes. Then, the season was all new to make these changes. This is not to be done as the government of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir would like to do. So that I would learn my song in a cross, and direct my words to the highest. Ministers in particular: In the last financial programme, there were increased, too little, in my opinion, but they were increased to respond to EU and Iceland's joint targets on greenhouse gas emissions rising from 40 to 55%. The Treaty then announces that ambition will still increase, from 55% in common with the European Union to 55% of Iceland's independent goals, which are likely to require more measures. I'd like to know why it doesn't take place on the budget bill. Will a minister propose that increased funds for climate discussion or that available contributions are sufficient? How will the minister follow the Treaty on what new national goals will be involved in the coming year? Will the aim of a 55% independent decline in emissions as normal to keep governments in place or will be updated by the government's plan of action on climate change when and when?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u45	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his speech and for bringing it to my attention and thank you. A senator in particular for looking at my old inquiries. It's a perfect example, and I recommend that all members of Congress do so, not only inquiries, but cases and bills, and helps so that things that are not yet passed through, pass through. I was counting on the support of the dog. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson to join in, and he'll just say what he's doing. A senator starts well. It is also good to do what is right. A senator reviews past mistakes. When I was in the health minister's office, we did what was very sensible because I was the first health minister and insurance minister, putting the insurance cases where they lived, to the Ministry of Social Affairs. It was very wise, not easy, but it was very reasonable for obvious reasons. Then bringing all of this together into one welfare department is without doubt one of the biggest mistakes that have been made in the history of the Board of Directors. How it came to the idea of putting virtually all of the government's expenses or the vast majority of them in one ministry was a mystery to all. Fortunately, this was replaced, and it really happened because it did not work out on its own and all the evidence that there was no basis for reasoning that there was a solid basis for such an effect. Such mistakes, such as those, have taken a huge toll in these important issues. But because of him. The senator split his speech, and I discuss it as a matter of course. A senator spoke in the second part of the conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u46	A respectable president. I was not going to stir up the minister in a hot discussion of administrative changes, but it is good to recall that the reason for the reduction of the problems and the increase in the research report by the Generals was encouraged because the 12 Ministry prior to failure was simply unable to carry out its role. There was a shortage of professional and political policies. Of course, it may be thought whether the abduction of the Ministry of Health was correct or not, but to be insinuating this indefinitely and back again to the twelve consulting team where any of them will become an incessant Ministry is a return to the past, a return that I would not have thought would happen on the watch of the left green, according to the way the ministers of the party spoke during the election period of 2009-03/2013. Then, for example. The current marine dignitary and agricultural minister that this is just one of the basic components of the nation's well-being, the administrative changes that were under attack. But okay. Because it's been a while since I brought up my questions to the highest level. Ministers, maybe I get to repeat them, if he's forgotten them in the meantime. First, why do we not see increased ambitions reflected in increased contributions to climate? Will a minister suggest such an increase? Will Minister follow the policy of the Treaty by suggesting that the objective of the exercise is 55%, and when can we expect an updated climate change strategy?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u47	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. How they can come to the conclusion that the Allied Research Report on the financial breakdown would make it possible for the Health Ministry to be united, and the Department of Social Affairs is a complete mystery to me. I don't remember a medical course in my research report or what was wrong with the social security system, I don't remember. Maybe it's there somewhere, but it might say something about how crazy these changes were that men use this as a reason in the case. This exactly does not hold any opinion, believe me, because I tried to discuss health matters in the elections after the collapse, and there was no great interest in it, and I can't remember any man anywhere, and much was said, saying, because the Ministry of Health was so weak or the Department of Social Affairs then had become a financial breakdown. It can't resist, Mr. Honorable President. These important questions should be addressed. A senator is coming here, I've said it before, and hopefully we'll discuss it both here in this room and elsewhere, that, of course, here's a huge project that's very important for everyone to come at. This will not be done by one agency or even if it would achieve the full approval of the council, it is an assignment for all the professionals, the economy, the career. I look forward to this project, and I am totally aware of the magnitude of it, so that for all the exports, money or anything else, I don't think we have, in what we've built up, reach perfection in the programmes that are there at this stage. So I leave all my rights to make changes. In terms of individual implementation, I'm not going to tell myself about it right now, but I'm going to have to get more involved than just the Minister and one Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u48	Mr. President. The fight against climate change is not on the table of one minister, but on the whole of the community, I completely agree with the Minister. However, there are budgets in climate, climate action plans, and climate laws on the table of the Minister. There would be nothing to speak out of some folly if the minister of the climate said in 1st. Whether the budgetary minister of climate matters reflected the government's ambitions on climate matters or not. I think it's really amazing to come to that empty cabin at the minister's house. I'm here asking clear questions about funding in the Ministry's language field, and he will answer me just in a little bit to consider in the future with some stakeholders and all kinds of teams. It's the year after three weeks. At that point, we need to complete these budgets. At that point, we need to know what the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter is going to put into the climate, whether it will focus on out - of - date ambition or on the person she claims to be with. If they don't suggest increased budgets for climate change into this budget bill, there's another missing year in climate matters that still holds the responsibility of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter and Þór Þórðarson's Godfather and others of the highest order. Secretary of the government of Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u49	A respectable president. I wanted to have a word with what I heard. A senator following his discussion here just in this issue on equality. He discussed it as much as its introduction and ideologies following legalization or validation of law, and I have found interesting and thought to be an interesting and thought - provoking approach to this government in the case of the equally pay form of government. The prime minister, who made this issue more likely to make it a higher priority, has much to discuss the significance of the equally pay contract for Iceland internationally, talked much about this matter abroad, where Iceland boasts of it and of course can be proud of its success in equality, but at the same time, it was one of the first works of the social minister to postpone the value of the law and the requisition of the law. A senator is also describing the approach, e.g. Performing a equally paid witness for the Board of Directors itself. I would have felt that it reflected better on the Polish prime minister that the social Ministry had stood by this case proud and proud. I'd like to ask you what. A senator following a discussion of the equally pay form of equality as reflected in a government contract and in a financial bill. As far as I can see, the emphasis is, for example, sexual violence is precisely the same thing that was being done during the last term, no new news. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u50	Mr. President. I'm going to start by sharing with what. The senator's joke, this joke is on page 333 of the budget bill, and it's as follows: ▪ Target 1: Remuneration of pay will be eliminated. Under these circumstances, the procedure is to ensure incorporation of the equally pay sheet within a set time period with the carer of the Presidency and a change in funding for the project within the framework. This is a joke because you do not overcome homosexual pay within existing financial borders unless, naturally, the prime minister is proclaiming the revolutionary idea of worth a living, to lower the men who are on too high a salary of low wages, to equalize it. But I'm not sure that this is what the Minister is doing. Rather, I'm much more afraid that this will reflect the seriousness that is in relation to the minister's group. It's supposed to decorate rather than do something. The problem with equally pay-authorization is that when you take out as little units as the Ministry does, where jobs are divided into as many groups as it is, the Ministry can be done at very low cost. So the amount of pay can be hidden by deliberate or unintentionally within the scheme. In terms of the equality section of the Constitution, it's another joke. It is this long, with particular regard to equality. In addition, I am deeply concerned about the people who are to be selected to follow up the legal arrangements for sexual crime in particular, a project set out for about three governments. [[The president calls.]] The final reports have been written several times, and all we need to do is start doing things, and the present minister of judicial cases, I don't think that's the man for it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u51	A respectable president. I must admit that I found it exciting at the time when the prime minister took the equality into his Ministry. At the same time, I was concerned because the prime minister may be in the role of the manager of the government, and it is supposed to be a full - time job in itself. But then you can see how this has been played when the Minister is with the group of lawsuits and then when a case related to the seminaries is presented to ministers who, in effect, are depicted as equal to the government's standards. I therefore bear in mind the court case of the then minister of education that runs a court case in the name of the United States against a woman who sought her rights and the judicial committee of equality, and the federal court has felt that she was violated by law. In this context, prime minister does not appear to be a minister of equality, for he has taken no stand on the matter and the highest. Prime Minister, I believe I have always answered the media, the public, and here in the conference hall in a way that is the subject of the Ministry of Education. This makes the government's equality somehow strange to sound. I wondered, then, what will happen now that some of the human rights matters have also come to the prime minister, but at the same time, we have a large number of cases at the Ministry of Social Affairs, of course at the Ministry of Justice and many other councils as well. Whether this is going to be the double-headed action I just described here in the previous answer, a previous question. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u52	Mr. President. Being with the mercenaries does not mean that you necessarily have all the tools of your seminary. We can also refer to the climate as the minister of the mercenaries does not necessarily have the largest tools, but there are many of them in financial or transport ministers or in many others. I think the equality issues have been transferred to the Ministry of Presidency four years ago. Because there is less fun than a job manager. I think it's more fun to be a mercenary minister, that we don't talk about litigation issues like this because you're on foreign suspicions and you're being taken for a Viking party because you're so good at equality. But then you need to have just the possibility of interrupting, since other ministers get lost. This is exactly the same situation we have with the Environment Ministry. There would have to be some of the environment's watchdogs to other advisers, and that is how this is so. The minister of equal rights would have to be able to introduce her to a high school minister when she chased a woman who was just seeking her legal rights. I'm not sure why this is happening, but I suspect it's just another form of mistrust within the government, that they have to go to a minister who wants to own it or can be trusted to take care of it. Then they can be in some peace with them. [[The president calls.]] The government covenant describes the United Nations Treaty as legally establishing the rights of disabled people, who I suspect the prime minister has not trusted in the Independence Party. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And well to mark, this promise by the government is merely a written document of the General resolution that was supposed to have been completed a year ago. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u53	The President reminds me of the speech period, two minutes to answer. Half a minute past that is a bit long.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u54	Mr. President. In my first talk, about 1st. I specifically discussed the howling misdeeds we see between this government's government's government and this financial bill. There is no serious attendance on education, on climates, on housing, and on other subjects that all our future depends on. They are also bad in terms of social security, as it seems that it is going to continue to run a very hard taxing and impairment policy against micro-organism and the income of older people and especially those who depend entirely on pension payments. I would like to use this second talk to discuss only health matters and health services for those who are disabled. But in view of the highest. Environment, climate and energy minister, Van Þór Þórðarson, is here in the hall, I'm going to direct some questions to him below and only discuss the environmental and climate issues with him. First, health care. In the ensuing end of this election, I compiled data from the Hausti site and pointed out that the patient populations have gradually declined compared with the population in Iceland for years, from 335 to 100,000 people in 2007, so it was then 227 per 100,000 people in 2019. This happened while the nation continued to age, while the percentage of older people, the population required for hospital service, went from 11.5% of total population to 14.2%, and during the period of explosion in the arrival of tourists to the country, which, of course, caused great pressures in emergency hospitals, especially during the summer. During this period, the number of patients in the hospital was directly reduced compared to the population. Meanwhile, as we know, the natural structure of nurses was in the background, and the nursing home was very expensive. Hospital volume was about 100%, and this was long before the pandemic. That's what we know. This is far, far beyond anything that is considered acceptable in emergency hospitals in the countries we compare with. The health - care providers know all of this in their own eyes, how unannounced this situation is, how it puts patients in a dangerous position. This is something that we in the United States drew special attention to and called after reforms during the last term, and especially in the last summer when pressure was the most urgent and the need for reforms. What were the answers in the administrative home? Yes, there was a statement from the then health minister that this decrease was just the natural language and was only explained by increased production and progress in medical science. It is true, of course, that as medical science goes ahead, the number of people who have been treated has decreased compared with the number of appeals around the world and that there has been a greater number of treatments being used by departments into departments. That's a fact. However, it is not possible to overlook the context of parts, to ignore how this decrease has occurred along with a dominant growth in the arrival of tourists, and the fact that Iceland is one of the European countries, where there is room for intensive care compared to the population, and the fact that Iceland is one of the European countries where there is the greatest concentration in hospitals. Yet, this was the response from the administrative camp. It's just that the decrease is somehow the most natural thing in the world and all just because of technology. In view of these views, which we heard only a few weeks before election, it is a pleasant surprise that in this financial bill, special donations are expected to increase the amount of human beings. It's just a really comfortable surprise. That's good. That's even where we're at. talking about 510 million to the head of the Highlands in Fos Soil and Ring Road. Nevertheless, it is clear that Iceland will remain the sole boat of other Norwegian countries when it comes to a number of intensive care units. This refers to the specialized hospital services, and it will be interesting to examine the subject subject and to evaluate the development, especially after reports are received from hospitals. In all our health care discussions, we need to keep in mind that in recent years there is no increase in the extent to which land hospitals are operating - these are the standards we need to look to. And as Professor Gylfi Zoëga has pointed out, with interesting calculations in the magazine evidence, this can be fully proved by looking at prices and increases in pay, by looking at the big picture, that the public contribution to the Land Hospital has not increased as much as the need for hospital service in recent years. When it comes to public hospital services, we see a direct decrease between the years of this bill and the increase in financial resources that enter the health system next year are primarily related to the Covid pandemic. Of course, we'll take a closer look at the committees, but I'm not sure that this increase will be sufficient to trust the financial foundation of the health system, reduce the pressures of health institutions, etc., let alone some step in the direction of caring for others. In dealing with people with disability. It has now been two years since the General Assembly approved our resolution in the United States on the legalization of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Infirm. That was two years ago. According to this arrangement, the contract would have been legalized in December 2020, a year ago. The government of Iceland and the then minister of the seminary were to take action and prepare the legislation according to this date, December 13, to remind me. It was simply the recommendation given by the Council. During the last term, the government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, gave a bottle. Then she introduces it by means of a political contract for the last weekend that the contract will be legalized during the terms of the election that are about to begin. Many rejoiced, of course. That is why it is quite a disappointment to see now a financial bill for reducing donations to the detriment of disabled persons from year to year. It is not only that these contributions drop from year to year but that they have according to the post paid, which are included in the bill for budgeting, just to continue to decrease in each year of this terms. In the Treaty, how is this really compatible with the promises to improve the terms and extra rights and to follow up the rights of those with disability? I don't understand. Service to disabled persons was transferred from state to rural society in 2011, and these necessary basic services have cost much more than the total tax collections and additional comments have been made. If we merely cut off to Reykjavík, then we are talking about 13.3 billion over our income during the course of 2011,52019. This is a limp that has only grown steadily over the years. Of course, this is a well - known theme, and it has been in recent years and even decades, at expense of necessary basic services, including some of its members. we those with disability, are rolled over to the rural level without financial support. The financial bill remains. Before my time ends, I'm going to step on the environment and climate, first the highest. Minister is so sweet to be here with us. According to the government covenant and the debate around him, this was to be one of the big issues. It's about 55% independent climate goals. It's totally different from what we saw during the last term where the Iceland government was supporting a much less poor climate goal than the countries around us. No, we will not reach Denmark with 70% goals, but Dana will also not be successful in reaching that goal. But 55% of our independent national goals are important. It is a joy to know that the government has decided to support that goal. But how is it, since the government's budget, as it was during the last term, was introduced, and now that new budget is introduced, nothing has changed in the climate, the environment, i.e. when it comes to the expenses and income of the state. Why is that? They're setting up an updated climate goal, but it's nowhere in these windows. I found that good questions were raised earlier: Why is there no pride in this financial bill? When does an updated climate - related plan arise? [[The president calls.]] Is it reasonable to expect the EEA to support suggestions, increase ambition in climate now between discussions, both on the spending side and on the income side when it comes to speed-up energy exchange and taking greater steps in climate change? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u55	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I would have liked to have our old arrangement, because I think it would be better to discuss the case of each minister in particular, but the ways of the Generals are in mysterious ways, and for some reason the harmony of that good thing was not achieved. But then I like it very much. Councilmen are required to give counsellers and governments legalize and ask critical questions, and that is good. I don't know exactly, Mr. Honorable President, though, because I always get the same question that I realize that the leaders are not satisfied with the answer, but it doesn't change if it's brought back. To me, it's just like this, and what I'm trying to draw out now, which I think is really important, is how big a project this is and how many people are involved. I'd be surprised if we didn't change them on the way. They were as good as they are, because these are planes, if we didn't change them. That's just what I'm stressing. But I think that we must only get out of talking about a budget to the way we are going to do this and how we can cooperate with the nation in order to do so. Of course, that's just my opinion. I'm not complaining about this, okay? People may ask me what they want and as often as they want, but I have to let people down, for the answers to the same questions will not change.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u56	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for - I can't really say the answers, but he was there at least, at least. Minister was there. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] We are disappointed that we do not find answers to these questions, since these are asking too quickly. Yeah, you're right. You're right. Minister says here, he misses that there may be more to the implementation, etc. We have the next month and the entire ideal period to discuss exports, and we will not be caught in the government opposition and we in the United States to sustain the government and contribute solutions to climate change. But here we are simply discussing financial matters. It's just that way. We're discussing next year's income and expenses, and I miss a little bit that there's no more contribution from the highest level. A minister who was taking over and that it was actually not showing any financial evidence that there is a government that is going to support ambitious climate goals than the government did during the last term. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u57	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question. I'm not going to raise any expectations from the senator that I'll answer that way. A senator will be pleased, however, that this group of paintings is thus built like most lawsuits, at least a lot of people, that all the funds can be used, and then, at some point, it can be handed over, and money needs to be used as well as possible. I've served as a minister of three councilmen, this is a third, and I think I've always been ashamed not to ask for more money. To me, it's not about that, and it's certainly not that the person here decides what the outcome is in terms of individual lawsuits. There is something that humans do according to the best of their ability, and it is never that everyone is happy, especially the ministers who take each party for himself. But there is no question about what our goals are. They're very ambitious. We need to get them. The will of this government is determined to achieve these goals, and it will not be unchanging.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u58	A respectable president. Yeah, that's just the way it is. I'm asking the highest. A minister of this because what we see in the budget bill is a complete resolution of environmental and climate issues relative to what was expected in a financial programme. I'm not just talking about the spending side, I'm talking about the income side, I'm talking about all of this, how income and expenses will develop next year and next year. It seems a little bit that this increase in cost to climate has been some kind of a response to a pandemic, few other things, somehow just economic, rather than a real application to the future. I don't understand, these are the first budgets of the four that this government will provide, a quarter of the budget package of the new government and if this is to be so for the next few years, I think it's absolutely impossible that we will achieve a 55% recession target for 2030. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We have nine years to do this, and I understand. A minister so that it did not necessarily end up doing better in climate matters but, in effect, was the decision of the government as a whole to stay gone. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u59	The president reminds me of a speech lesson. Half a minute and a little more than a minute of speech is just over.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u60	A respectable president. I cut it down in my speech anyway. A senator said that he spoke of a reduction in physical illness and what has been done and how things have changed in recent years. He mentioned to make a tourist, that there's been a lot of tourists here. We sometimes forget that if we receive one and a half million tourists, it's a multiple population of Icelanders. When it comes to dealing with this, until now in financial terms, that there is a little improvement in space, the answer has so far been that all it has to do is improve production or digital revolution in the health system. I stopped because I remember my grandfather's vow, who was a heart patient for 17 years, and therefore spent a lot of time in the City Hospital, as he was then called, was just put in the sink room because there was no room. [[The president calls.]] Is this perhaps the increase in production we need, just using the toilets and sink rooms, even the coffee rooms, and filling them with space? [[The president calls.]] Does he think it's the growth the Ministers suggest?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u61	A respectable president. I apologize for this ◯amatism, and I promise I won't go through this speech session this time. Hv. A senator ponders the demands of performance in health care. Of course, we do not want to increase the quality of health care by keeping people or nurses in the room. But we must make it a requirement for governments to make sure that money is used well, that services are given at the right level, and that it holds a good organization in the medical system, and that money is being controlled, e.g. The personal contribution of the health - care sector, but also that money is added to the system and services, increased, improved, and solved.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u62	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I think I've already found the plan to increase the production. In fact, cutting down the attack is involved. It's been cut down in the international market of Iceland, if we look at it in the budget. It's natural that we have fewer tourists in our country. There's a little else in it, it's cut off in tourist safety, but so-called Saftravel-programm, who's saved a lot of lives, goes down about 5 million, so maybe it's going back to the other side. Hv. A senator also mentioned the staff. I would say that many of the health - care professionals working in Iceland are of unique national interest, but it is offered a better salary, a better job time, and a better setting abroad. [[The president calls.]] It's our chance. What can we do to make sure that we keep these people at home? [[The president calls.]] In the past ten years, some 2,000 health - care professionals have left the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u63	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for these indications, and I completely agree with him. All means to improve health standards in Iceland and to attract people to the country. This will be done in both collective agreements when it comes to salaries and equipment. One thing is also important; because we're talking about how financial contributions down to important basic health care services, we can see, for example. to contribute to human health and to the prevention should also be reduced, despite all being included in a government contract to increase emphasis on human health and prevention. And it is after a pandemic, after the treatment prevention measures and meeting restrictions that have particularly weighed heavily on younger people. There's nothing to go forward there, either.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u64	A respectable president. It's been interesting to watch a word exchange here today. I found it especially interesting to listen to the highest. Environment Minister commends himself for attendance. I think it's a good thing for him to be in his discussion about the government budget he's in. They haven't been many, the Ministers, in this room today. The minister readily acknowledged that he also had no answers, and he spoke of the in mysterious ways of the council. It's all good. It's good to see you. Minister. [[Up front.]] But I was going to talk, not about thinking, but about words. A senator on the affairs of the disabled, for it also makes me feel that I care about the equality and our vision of what that involves. Perhaps we simply need to validate that concept. We're used to talking about equality, and equality like that. From the interests of the sexes. But this is a broader concept, and under it there must fall equal to the availability of disabled people as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u65	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for good comments. I'll take my mind off this. I think, for example. the increase of contracts for user-controlled personal assistance is one of the largest individual freedoms issues in Iceland today and for social rights. Self - centered people often talk about freedom, talk about little freedom issues; camp alcohol; and something like that. But this is the big freedom issue, increasing the agreements on user - controlled personal assistance, making it possible for those with disability to live with dignity.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u66	A respectable president. I agree with this, and in fact, I feel that these terms are closely related, equal, and freedom, that a person who does not enjoy freedom in the community does not enjoy equality. Therefore, I also worry about equality in comparison with others. I'm concerned about this case, especially because of the government's inclination to give the government a great deal of money to the government. It's true of this group, to set the rules of services they should do and do but not give them money, and then, even in some case, allow themselves to speak here from this platform about how disappointing it is to know how their rural communities will be when all the time came to this end.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u67	Madam President. I couldn't agree more. Senator on this. This has been the lent in recent decades, the cost of necessary basic services is dematched to the unit control level, such as pa·rou·siʹa. A senator mentioned. Duty and service requirements are somehow gated there without financial support. In the budget bill we're discussing today, all we see is a continuation of this evil course. It is known as a starving policy, by permission of presidents, ◯Austerity to English. It's such a course. A fine way to cut it down without clarity in the state book and without people and the media might turn it on properly, without any political intervention by ministers and governments. Then there's always some way we can point to the state level.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u68	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an interesting speech earlier. I've decided on a few factors, e.g. that the senator mentioned a contract on the rights of disabled persons and the alleged intention of the government to legalize him. This would result in changes to be made in law, etc. Which I'm not sure is a will for this government to enter. Then maybe I'm more concerned about things like that. that there must be a change in legal laws where the contract takes place that people are freer because of their disability. I'd like to ask the senator if he thinks it's realistic that this can become a reality or if all the talk about it is empty.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u69	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for a good question. I must admit that I do not have very high expectations for this government when it comes to this subject, perhaps especially in view of the fact that there has been a delay in the fact that a very clear order from the General of the UN Convention on the rights of the disabled is being followed. I can't figure out why it's been so late. Similarly, I must admit that I do not have much hope that these necessary changes in legal law and other laws will be carried out during this terms. But, of course, we hope for the best, and we press it as we possibly can in the position of government.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u70	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the answer, though there may be such a lack of appreciation for what I share in a certain way with the senator regarding the expectations of this government. Of course, the little expectations are highlighted by the methods we have already seen and perhaps by the discrepancies between the two sides of the policy debate. Prime Minister and then Congress files, which have been submitted by the majority of the section and this bill for financial purposes. This point regarding a legal agreement on the rights of disabled persons is natural something that has been in the waiting process for a very long time and that I don't know of anyone who has expressed any opposition to it. Is it not, then, why this has been delayed for a long time simply because it is not a real desire to make the necessary changes? It is not a real will to ensure the rights of disabled people. It is not a real will to ensure the freedom of disabled people and real mental changes and fundamental changes in how we approach these matters, how we approach those who are disabled in our community. That's the real problem, isn't it? We're here with a government that's primarily known as a government, but it's becoming increasingly evident during the day, to unite in the midst of chaos. These are conservative groups that generally agree that it is virtue to have things just exactly as they have always been.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u71	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for such meditation. Of course, crying out that there is more expenses, more expenses, may work a little tiresomely. But it is just so that defending social rights requires a lot of money. These contracts are costing money and have to be assumed for financial purposes. Hence, this provision today, followed by a presentation of a government contract, is offered a parish to disabled persons, with overwhelming disappointment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u72	Madam President. We're discussing the budget here, and there's a lot of things going on here. It's a very short time, though longer, that I think, than that one minute and 50 seconds that the measuring table shows me. - That's it. I got a little ahead of time. I'd like to start by discussing the energy issues, and thank you very much. Environment, energy and climate ministers for coming to the room. Note that not all of them did so when they were called. And I really think it's best to say, so I'm using this opportunity here at the beginning, not a good thing about it at the highest. The General's president, who is involved in a case such as financing of the time that has been a policy to win that document, and therefore it takes a lot of overwork, to make a Saturday meeting without having made sure that the senators enjoy their role in having access to counselees. I have to say, I think it's a good thing. At the same time, I will take advantage of the opportunity to discuss it with those who are responsible for it, but most of all. A minister who came here. Others must hear that song, and time will be allowed to do so. I would like to begin with, which is not the best- kept secret of the government, that it is her own most violent opponent when it comes to opposition to one of the major issues of its own government contract, i.e. In the time of the former reign I am speaking of the highland garden. I'm going to come to that later, but it has to do with energy. We've got energy exchange on the agenda. There's a focus on the government during the electric car wash. Of course, the structure of public transport is enormously important too. But we have another big opportunity, and one of them is the fishing road. There have been major steps on the fishing road, but governments may need to step in with the infrastructure. This is our big opportunity, and we should see - I don't think I'm gonna tell us a lot about it, but we should see the opportunity to be the first to get into the energy exchange in the fishing road, to be there radical and forward, and to move our ship fleet into the green fuel that comes from Icelandic energy sources. We have the technical solutions, but, of course, necessary infrastructure. In the foreground, of course, there is continued support for innovation. We have a new business, we have a project that is approved in a international language. We're gonna need some of the military stuff. We can, for example. see how cooperation of marine soil and energy companies have produced remarkable results in contractions in emissions from fish industry, where renewable energy is replaced by oil. But reports are now being received that the European Union has decided to restrict electricity delivery to the plant and that it has in its energy contracts an inadequate electricity agreement. It has to do with our business that we are in a country full of water energy and energy from other renewable sources that we cannot take care of this. So I would be interested to hear from the highest. A minister of whether he has a vision of how we react to this and whether this vision is comparable to the entire government policy or whether we are still seeing examples of the sophisticated multi-organized government as various Ministers of the government, in cooperation with the three governments, have used themselves when they are in conflict between their own visions and their party and the government's efforts to achieve a solidarity. Hooked this up, because I spoke earlier about the government being one of the fiercest opponents of the Highland National Park or if it had been in his treatment during the last term, I would like to ask the highest degree. Minister: What, then, is the limit between our future energy supply and our highland national park? As I understand the words of government leaders, they have not yet been given up. Then perhaps linked this too, because the government has now declared that all priming options should be brought to a waiting party, i.e. both Neon and Protector class: Could be the highest. A minister here explained what that means in human languages? What does that mean for energy support, and what does that mean for land protection in the next four? This is what I would be interested in getting a vision of the highest. The minister's going to be here. But there were other factors. The Ministry of Environment is not the only government that left greens out in negotiations about continuing seating in the Prime Minister's chair. The Ministry of Health ran off, too. It is not a matter of repute that the collaborative groups of fellow workers jumped to an evil dream when it came to elections and denied the policy of their government during the past term, not even once and not twice, but twice. The exit point for the criticism that these groups were given to support the policy of the left - green health policy was always that Iceland's government was a multi-organized government. The doctor of the left green had health issues. The situation is now second, and there is a candidate for the advance campaign who declared too far into the health - care system with its own list of checks. The news is now coming from the fact that he's the same, now the highest. Health Minister, has provided special funding for land hospitals to make good use of the second hundred selected measures and to shorten the waiting list. While it certainly does not appear in the budget bill, as I came into my speech yesterday, to make Iceland's health insurance available for more of those projects, I hope this is a foretaste of what should come with the appropriate shortening of the waiting list that has become the identifying mark of the government community of these three classes. On the other hand, I had wished to be brought here to the former highest level. The minister of health, now the minister of the sea's road and agriculture, to discuss this with the authority of the individual minister of the multiorganized government. I'm sorry, again I'll tell you, Madam President, the Minister can't see it. I get it. It's a good weather outside, and it's Saturday. Nevertheless, I'm going to push the question forward, and hopefully I'm going to have a chance to make this statement at the highest. Minister. Today, there is no evidence of a special change in policy or emphasis on the use of the marine resource. But I reviewed a policy - it's possible to talk about ideals - a better greener one from before they got married with the classes that have made it an art to protect the interests of the great deed in this case. I wanted to ask the highest. A marine minister would not want to lose the dust for the purpose that the use of the sea resources would depend on temporary agreements. I wanted to ask the highest. Minister if he would promote it on the other hand and, on the other hand, the payment for the use of this same resource will be closer to the real world, i.e. there was a fair and normal price by offering a marketing route, but if that were too capitalistic for the highest. A minister would even be looked to other ways to achieve justice for the nation. I had, too, thought to ask the highest question. Agricultural minister who was a former environmental minister in the past would use her power as Minister of these multi-organized administrations to promote and achieve changes in agricultural funding, moving it from production-related sources towards support for innovation and green production. Whether it is particularly supportive of soil and vegetation - related emissions of greenhouse gases, e.g. with the recovery of wetlands and the breakdown of the land. Rather, it does not take place in financial matters. I don't see this policy developed in a government contract. Does this mean that this isn't the direction of the left green, but or does it mean that, in this case, the sea eco-efficiency and agricultural services are not multi-organized governmental authority, where the minister achieves his own, but a collection of opinions and shows and emphasis on these three groups, which are formed in the lowest of equivalents? These are questions I have to ask for later, and I want to know that when it is thought that next time it is necessary for members of the council to sit here on Saturday to discuss matters, they will be able to make sure that they have access to advisers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u73	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for both the input and the questions. These are large, but these are key questions. Let me just be honest with you about how it's best to go to this job because it's a huge project. My first act, in fact, when I came to visit, was that I was brought to my home, in this order, to Land Protection, then to the National Protection Association of Iceland, then to Landactivation, and then to the Community of Industrials. Now I am in that place trying to figure out how this project is being accomplished. I think it would be a lot to do if we could get to a place where we could, at least, understand the basic points we're discussing things, because I feel that the discussion is a bit so that people give themselves a certain basis and also a basis for where others are coming from and how you don't have to talk to a lot of people or listen to many people to realize that it's not quite that way. Now, I don't dream that we're sitting here after a month or some year, and everyone agrees with any conclusion, but if we can at any rate figure out what the situation is, where we're at, where we're at, where we're at, and where we're possible to get what we're going, which I think is a broad harmony, if we can get there and then we agree on what we don't agree on what we're going to do. [[The president calls.]] But because my time is over now, unfortunately, I'm going to try to make up for the next good question.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u74	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister before and, of course, realizes that these are fundamental questions that will likely be addressed and discussed in the following years. But my exit point - if you don't mind me asking for the highest. Minister to focus on two in a later answer. On the one hand, he says, naturally, he wants to get to the place where we're in the big movie, but then I want less. A minister should know that when it comes to what cooperation he is then at the highest level. Minister not at the starting point, he's in the fifth year of this cooperation. All I'm saying for all those with great interest in being careful that what I read out of his words is that there were four years of waste here. I realize that it has probably not been exactly what was in the words at the highest level. Minister, but that's how I interpret it. Is this work getting started again? Then it will return to self-dent within the government, as it was. the highland national park did? Now he is not an Omega working on energy or natural protection, but he is a key figure there. As I understand it and read it between the lines, there's a bit of tension there. Are we going to see here a plot of national parks allowing specific energy levels in their targets? It's not completely unknown, but it needs solidarity. However, I would like to ask again about the three frames, which I understand pride will exist in the government at the end of the day - isn't this fourth astrological? - and if it is correctly understood that the discussion has arrived at the point where all activation options have been placed in a waiting position so that in that sense the work is beginning again.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u75	Thank you. A senator for challenging questions again. It's not that four years have been wasted, and it's not that the person standing here is on the table and there's just nothing on the table and everything needs to be started. Happily, that is not the case at all. However, that is so, and it is quite true, and we should not be discussing it any different, that there are, of course, different views in each of these categories. This may be a defect, but it may also be possible, for it needs to be discussed anyway, and hopefully it will be close to a sharing in which everyone needs to yield, or to be as disgruntled, or no matter what man says. A highland national park is much more than whether there is any energy use there or not, so much more is involved in it as the discussion began. The experience of a nation of lakes, both positive and negative, also came to mind. Hv. A senator took certain factors out, as did the one turning toward the fishing industry. Of course, it's not good, so if not deeper, when we have said for a good reason that we are here with an extraordinary status when it comes to renewable energy sources, when we have news like this. It's all something that people need to look at and take sides, and I hope that people will all approach it that way, no matter where they come from, not starting in the holes, but starting with looking at it from a position that is, just the facts that are on the table. It has been done as well as possible so that all who participate in the discussion have as much access to real - life data, as it were, and options. If we can get to that place, the discussion should become easier. But let's be clear: it won't be easy. Besides, once you've got your team together and we're going to get these big goals, it's not a small job. [[The president calls.]] I'm not telling men that the anxiety program is not at all. I'm just saying this is a very big project that concerns everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u76	Madam President. I appreciate your answers. It's a bit special being in this position, I can't get any more answers from the top. Minister. It's like this, and it's fine. Of course, you're right, and I also said that highland park is about something more than energy. But because I was now on this committee and watched the case closely during the last term, it was also this way, and I am aware that many of the things that were picked up in opposition to this matter were in the word, and the issues of energy were on the table. What I'm concerned about right now is that if we're going to go on this project and we're going to go on to the reservation to support energy gatherings in the park, they're gonna have to be on the table in a transparent process so that it's not going to work, forgotten in the discussion, because men are pushing about organized rural society or organization or cooperation with rural society or road or whatever, and I'm making it a challenge not to, Madam President - somehow underlined by this case, it's a matter of our future interests, how we're going to resolve this. It was just this kind of urgent. Finally, I want to do something, and that is, in view of the highest. Agricultural minister could not see his presence. It's the highest. Environment, energy, and climate minister and agricultural ministers shared in being former health ministers, they certainly were at different ends. But the question is, Do they have a solidarity, one on the other, the Minister of Climate and the Ministers of Agriculture, to work on the key elements involved in the modern - day growth of agriculture for farmers, consumers, and climate? I'm going to go to the top. Minister to take that ball.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u77	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. I wanted to talk about one point he mentioned about the climate, and that's where the opportunities are. I mentioned yesterday that there was a great opportunity for innovation in climate. I also mentioned that we should try to aim to make Iceland the center of international knowledge and innovation. There's a lot of money abroad in this area, and money could be drawn here to a country that is much more than the highest. A minister of climate or the highest. Minister of innovation can ever do that. I'd like to hear if I could. A senator agrees with my vision of these opportunities and where we can do such things. He also mentioned agriculture and fishing roads. Like us pioneers, there are plenty of opportunities to pioneer when we came to the use of the earth. Since then, we have been able to take that wonderful knowledge and take it around the world. I have seen the results of that commission in many parts of the world. Why can we not be leading in this regard? I'd like to hear what we're doing. A senator feels that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u78	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gísli Hyun Ólafsson is a great man for answering. I think it's a very happy discussion, and it makes me very happy, with the best. A climate minister with more in this room, focusing on the European Union because there are quite a number of ways to cooperate. The European Union's relatively recent policy, ◯Green Deal◯, offers a number of possibilities for cooperation, not just with the government, but literally encourages SMEs to search for prisoners with their ideas and to gain strength. I'm just thinking that we should be the country that's at the tip of almost any field of green solutions. We've got everything we need. We have the education, the education level. We have our connection in the Internet, we're relatively unique society, so it's easy to start such a project. We have our energy and all the more, we have the demand, because we are still dealing with how to ensure equality for education and health in our scattered and small settlements. It has innovation in green solutions, telecommunications, all kinds of opportunities for education. We're supposed to hit this thing. I'm the opinion, it's my political vision, that, to a large extent, I would like to see this happen through a green competitive fund, where sponsors are granted and supported. So, yes, I take my heart to this project, these ideas, and I think we should be there in the lead. And I'd like to talk about how we can assist other countries who are less able to handle the responsibilities we are in in the longest part of our lives. A senator mentioned something about a geologist and something else, but I might find out later.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u79	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. It's good to hear that the senator agrees with me that there are many opportunities. It's my hope to the highest. A minister sitting here, and these matters are related to this discussion in order to do good things in this regard. But I wanted to talk for a moment about something else. A senator mentioned, and there's a minister's power. Now we're sitting here in this hall, and we've been picking up a bill that's been saying it's not ready many times, that it's going to change so much. As a new senator, I think this is scary, that we get something that isn't ready. But there has been a very good discussion here. Councilmen at the same time and few members of the administration team, few ministers and few representatives of the government on a budget have taken the time to stay in here. I'd like to hear what I'm thinking. Senator, how does the senator feel about this kind of work?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-04-5.u80	Madam President. I thank you again for the counterweight. In order to complete the environmental discussion, it is kind of my vision that the environment will not be isolated in some silo but that it will spit on every subject. That we somehow get to the point where all things are going to be environmentally important. In many ways, we have reached equal issues in our society. I would like to see that there will not be any structural change, this will not be a educational policy, this will not be a medical or transport policy without all being cleared from environmental sources. It must be the next step, we're just there. That's what I wanted to say. Perhaps there is some larger vision that there is no need for some special approach in this matter, that this will cause us to be so covered in blood. But as for this discussion and this method of action, this is sanctified by the fact that a government that has been living for a whole term has failed to resist the temptation to bring us back to the spring election. There will be a pressure that makes us in, I would say, if we were to win this case properly, we would be involved in some part of it because the directors of the three federal parties needed this shelter offered by the electionist in the Northwestern district. Now they return two months after the election with a half-in-authority contract and a practically working bill. I see a point in this: Here are a number of new senators, who have many experiences behind them that have much to offer and that have used this time very carefully in their discussion and in the course of the matter. Now I'm not responsible for any position of government, but I have something to add to the position of anti-reversities, and it's strengthened here in the discussion, and it's a good thing. This will not be unnecessary. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
