ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u1	Borist has a letter from the financial and economic secretary asking for every appointment to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 1099, on the results of a group on the decline in pensional age of certain groups, from Elíasdóttir Frinífjörður Elijahdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u2	To answer, Prime Minister, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Health Ministers, Foreign and Development Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers and Social Affairs and Children's Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u3	A respectable president. In an interesting interview with the Watch Tower Society's Office, Ásgeir Jónsson, president of the Board of Staff, said on permission of a president: ◯Inland is largely controlled by interest groups. It's the highest. Prime Minister agrees with this statement by the bank manager or does the prime minister consider the bank manager to be wrong?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u4	Mr. President. If I had been a journalist, I would have asked the bank manager for an example. I must now admit that I would have chosen him to review exactly what he meant by this. I'd like to say that in our community, very different interests and interests are trying to influence things that are done. We know this from the legislature of the legislature, stakeholders sending in envelopes, meeting members, meeting with the councilmen. I have used myself as prime minister to draw all these communications to the surface in the European Commission for the Commission's new disposal laws on defenses against interests in which conflict is required to sign up and the Council is obliged to record that relationship. I'd also like to say as president of a political party that I don't think my class, which, of course, is part of the Lawgiver, is controlled by the interests of the world, and I certainly hope that the senator here would not experience it that way. As a result, I could give a number of examples. I read in this morning the criticism of stakeholders on a ground bill as approved by the votes of the greater part of the previous council reminds me that the minority has not supported the very issue of preventing the combined resource of too few hands. This has been criticized by stakeholders, but the Council did not allow them to rule. I note the comments of the stakeholders on the resource directive before the council, in which all the leading business officials violate that law. Of course, this will test the stand of the council. So, yes, stakeholders are definitely trying to influence legislative decisions. However, it is vital that we communicate with those people on board and the state of the world, where the one present truly has applied.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u5	A respectable president. What the bank manager said is exactly what the politicians are about. It's a matter of public interest, not special interest. This has been the main differences in the government for the entire ultimatum. A late banker who said that special interest groups have a lot of power, he said it was clear, would hardly say it if everything was going to work out. However, the government has completely failed to prevent so much interest groups being controlled here. In a sense, the government provided a measure of protection for these interest groups. Review has repeatedly provided suggestions for further promoting the greater interests of the public, where special rules do not apply in competitive matters for key stakeholders and support groups of the administrations. We've talked about temporary contracts that don't provide lasting monologue access to the resource. We've been talking about increased transparency on the markets and on the property of seafood companies, but this has not been achieved. We've been talking about increased transparency about the value of goods for the public and the sailors. We've been talking about the equation of votes, but this has been over and over and over. That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u6	Mr. President. There must be a requirement for reasonableness in this pontta, and the examples are listed. Hv. A senator does not do anything about the very nature of defense against conflict. I didn't realize that the government she sat in last did anything in that matter. Hv. A senator did not support it in this hall when laws were imposed that limit land ownership so that land ownership could not become a burden on too few hands. They did not trust a series of restorations to support themselves. The richness that all these stakes of interest meet - there is no trust in a series of restorations to support them. Let us just see that here an example is important. However, I believe that it would be interesting to have an explanation of this at the bank manager's office, for it is, of course, a very large statement he makes, and it is important that we discuss these issues, how the stakeholders use and what transparency is about it. That's where we've been working in the government, right now, using the extra transparency that we need in this small community of ours.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u7	Mr. President. In modern times, there is a great deal of emphasis on transparency and communication. This is true in the government contract, which says, by permission of the president: The government stresses good practices, open administrative facilities, and transparency. Kappago site must provide information on decisions and processes that have access to public interests. Then, Mr. President, I'm going to give a witness on a page published on April 21 of the past winter day. There is a news story based on the contents of a package with a report on the transport control arrangements on the border. The report tells us that the package leaflet was not originally published in the report. Then you will discuss the contents of this package leaflet. Says in the report, with permission from the President: The information on this subject was published on the June 15 board of the Council of Management Board, which was lacking in its package 3. This has now been added to the publication of the report, but according to the Council's Office's comments to the News Report's inquiry, where both the document and the explanation for why it was missing in the report, it was considered safe to publish a package 3 without more careful consideration. Then I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister: Counts of the highest. The prime minister of this project is in line with the information policy of the government that I quoted at the beginning of my talk? Does it count the reason given by the Ministry in Answer to the newspaper for a objective reason?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u8	Mr. President. When request for data from the Council, there are strict guidelines for which data are provided. Songs that are defined as job documents are new to work, but do not include decisions or such, are often and may not be supplied because of the circumstances. The senator asks about this specific package of follow-up, which was a work document for the preparation of the precautionary measures. Hv. A senator here read from the answer to the Ministry of Presidency that he had been asked to deliver this document, unless he examined the matter more carefully and asks me how I feel about the explanation or if it works. Yes, it is true, the work arrangement is under way that when asked for documents, they are sometimes provided, but not always, and the subjects there are covered. This is very clear according to the work and information laws and can always be opened to the decision-making committee, which is often and reasonably carried out. I want less of it. The senator says we changed the information law not long ago, since the Ministry now has more initiative in publishing data on the Internet. This has actually led the media to address very many questions to the Board of Management to find out what is underneath. I'd like to say that I view it as a great step in reality to publish information as best and very, in the spirit of the present government, which is that information should be most accessible to those who seek it, to the public and to the media.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u9	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, but I have to admit that I do not completely understand the specific points in the answer to the highest degree. Minister. V.E.G. Minister prefers to talk about the discussed paper as a work document. This document has the reference in the report that it is a package, to which it is part of the report. I have to admit that I'm not that part of an explanation. A minister is entirely satisfactory. I notice that the highest. A minister reminds us of steps that have taken in the direction of increasing information sources and increasing transparency. Of course, this should be a cause for rejoicing. But you must ask yourself: " If the project is what we see in this case, where an important document is not returned with other documents, and when it is a work document, and however, it is not fair to publish it, you ask for the benefits of such a course. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u10	Mr. President. If I had my right, this document was eventually delivered, but the Ministry took the time to review it. There are various viewpoints that must be considered before such documents are delivered. I must admit that I am not personally the one who does so. Rather, it is the Ministry Experts who examine to see if there may be some kind of sensitive personal information or such before such documents are delivered. I dare not go over it exactly, but I do remember that this particular package was primarily provided as a basis for further work and decision making, so to speak, of doubt that it should be delivered, but was so delivered, as was being considered here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u11	A respectable president. Initiating work, extensive work market operations for jobseekers, and professional life, the government gave away a headline. There they offered 7,000 temporary jobs and estimated that the cost would be $4.55 billion. This should be for SMEs. Companies with less than 70 employees can hire jobseekers who have been working without a job for 12 months or longer with conflicting support. Each employee is provided with 472,000. Support per month and 11% contribution to the pension fund. The recruitment period is six months, from April to December 2021. Then there are those who have six months or less after the correction. But I'd like to ask the highest. Social Minister: What has a labour agency denied many social benefits from a local partner to get a job with support of 472,000 dollars? in a month and 11.5% contribution to a pension fund? Those on social benefits are the ones who are going to be the worst. Why are they being denied this right? In this context, I also ask: How many have been rejected for another reason, e.g. not reaching six months? And is it not time for students to get their right to unemployment in line with their work rights?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u12	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry, as he was referring to the government's work initiative. It is a joy to relate at this point that it is going very well, and we have already reached some 3,000 jobs, which are taking the long way to half of what was left behind. Hv. A senator asks about those who have come into the community because of their lack of community support. For the first time now, we stretch such efforts back into time, i.e. to all the individuals who have come to the financial aid of their comrades or who have gone there during the past six months. A community can now be supported to create jobs for these individuals. In other words, we are creating a business effort through our rural communities. There was only a meeting last week with a representative of the Office of Employment, the Ministry, and the representatives of the entire country's community to encourage people to use this recruitment scholarship to create jobs. Of course, never before have I been seen looking for six months of financial support in advance. I don't really realize that, so I'm completely honest, whatever. A senator is leaving because the Labour Office has not refused to perform such work. But if the local community has failed to make such work, it would be positive and interesting to know about it, and hopefully it can be solved in cooperation with the Office of Employment, Ministry, and the local community. The European Union has ended up having a very active share in this effort, and I have found only that all rural areas around the country have expressed the willingness to create the number of jobs needed to reach these people as well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u13	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. But I have this from first hand, from a person who was refused to go to this campaign because he was on social reform because he did not fit in. I ask myself: " Why on earth are those who have been social reformed to live on someone's rights at over 150,000, 60,000 dollars, all reduced, all income, including a mate? How can we possibly deny them this position? I can't imagine that there are many of them. This is the group that needs this, needs this pepper, needs to be out, can go to work, and has been long or short on social services. And if these people are trying to get a job, for God's sake, let them get a job. Don't say no to these people.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u14	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. As the senator traced, the financial assistance of a local partner is in the range of 1 60,000,220,000 dollars. per month. That's why we encouraged rural society to include this initiative in rural society, providing 472,000 plus pension payments, 11.5%, to create jobs for these individuals. That applies to individuals who have been on financial support six months in advance and who are actually in need of relief, have used their 30 - month period, and have had six months of financial support. So the campaign covers these individuals in cooperation with the local community. If there are individuals in my community who have not responded and who have created a job instead of paying financial support, I want to use this opportunity to encourage it, I don't have this example on my table, to create jobs for the individual, to put him in action, to increase his progress, and also to reduce the cost of the local community. It's really the right scene. We are equipped, with enormous financial motivations, with the most economic motivations ever made in creating jobs, to encourage rural society to do so, and that is a reason to use this area to encourage it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u15	A respectable president. One of the most important resources in each democracies is free media, where professional and critical coverage provides authority and public information. Free media is not just about property, it's about business and professionalism. The TV is and is supposed to be a free mass shareholder in public service nothing but its owner, the Icelandic people. An example of such reporting was in November of 2019, when information was presented in the television news program on how the Samherja company operates in Namibia. As a result, a criminal investigation began, with a suspect's legal status. The defenses of the company have been, not to refute the material presented in these factors, but to black out sources and to the newsmen involved in lawsuits for the National Committee and distribution of propaganda videos that have been specifically weighed against the Helgi Seljan, the reporter who carried the heat and weight of the show. While the company refuses to represent itself in their case and answer material questions, it insists that the matter is about the rage and hatred of the reporter and, in fact, the entire agency, as if the National Radio could in itself have some opinion or feelings about the operation of the United States. There is no question that the plans of the executives of the company are to frighten reporters from doing their job. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of education on her opinion of this process and whether she does not support the Government Radio even now that the Agency is taken by men who consider themselves over its discussion to be a source of wealth and power.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u16	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator very much for his inquiry. I wholeheartedly agree with him on the importance of free media and can deal with current issues. I'm asked if I don't support the State Radio. Of course I will, in this coverage and in these battles. I'd also like to say that I feel that Samherji is going too far in his reaction. I feel like it's done to give up the salmon and hope he'll give up. But these salmon they're dealing with are more likely to react in a more strong way, to swim against the current, and to continue. I believe the Government Radio Government has responded correctly, how they have handled this matter. It's my opinion that it all matters that the press is free and that, of course, we support our State Radio, and I believe that Samherji has gone too far.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u17	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister of education for this answer and considers it important to have it up until the Minister of Education in the country supports the National Radio for such attacks on the activities of the Agency. This is the case because we heard earlier in discussions from the highest level. Prime Minister and Chairman Welcoming at the highest level. The prime minister spoke of interest rates and prices, and even this could be understood as being a natural value stake and a natural price. It's the highest. A minister of education agreed that the Group's conduct with the State Radio can be classed, so, in fact, her old workplace, the Secret Bank, whether it is possible to describe the march as the sole protection of interest?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u18	Are you putting words in my mouth?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u19	A respectable president. I think all of this stuff actually shows that we're here in a free and open community, i.e. When the matter is discussed, it is done in a highly critical way, and the media are not reluctant to do so. When we're dealing with the media in Iceland, I think they're doing quite well, as we've seen now. How exactly should we class this? That's a big deal, of course. We see that people and our community feel this way, and I say we live in a free, open, democratic society, that people come out. That's what they think. So does it here at the council. I think there's a very desirable community where we can go over things like we're doing here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u20	Mr. President. I must make a note of it when it happened. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson comes up here and says in my mouth, I said here on the front page that the United States Association conduct is a normal security system. You're wrong. Senator. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir asked me a simple question about whether the interests of this community were controlling everything, and I went over what has been done, including. to increase translucency. There, I did not specifically discuss the Samherja and their campaign on that matter, and I bear them up as a matter of course. A senator here presents himself in a verbal exchange with someone of the highest order. Minister. I don't think it's tasteful, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u21	Hv. A senator may be accused if he thinks he is being accused or if he wishes to do so, but otherwise a general discussion of this is not opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u22	I'm not pulling this back.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u23	Hv. A senator does not want the word?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u24	No, I have no special charges to bear, and I'm not pulling anything back.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u25	Then this exchange is over.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u26	President. In a democracies community, it is important that there be a strong fourth power to monitor and maintain power over rulers. The media also need to be able to provide private sector support, although perhaps a marine export company in Iceland could rightly be counted as a ruler, for they have been assigned to fit the common resource and resource resources of the nation. It is clear that Samherja is perfectly normal to use the nation's resources in a slanderous campaign and reputation killing the modern - day Helgi Seljan, including the U.S.A. in the multi-digited advertising video on YouTube. I'm going to the top. ▪ Prime Minister to let the idea that the nation's resources are being used for slandering campaigns and reputations on a media player who did what his profession should do and pointed to the corruption of the Samherja? Does a minister consider Samherja's conduct towards the Helgi Seljan normal involvement in media coverage? What's the highest plan. A minister to take action to prevent such attacks on the media from taking place again?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u27	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. There may be three things that matter here. First of all, what's wrong. A senator refers to the resource use. Of course, it is very important that the Allied Parliament have some conclusions in terms of national resources directives. It is of utmost importance that there will be part of the basic laws of society and, of course, it is no accident that the stakeholders of the macros have opposed the resource directives currently being covered by a board of administration and monitoring committee. It may not be strange, since they likely wish for the same condition. I think it's very important that the U.S. Council responds to the nation's pleas for that. Second, here at the council is a special bill of increased support for the private media, which I believe is very important to be law-enforcement. It is of great importance for the freedom of the press in Iceland that along with the support of a powerful public radio, we support the private media. I personally presented as the minister of Education and Culture as a very clear legal adjustment at the time, which made it possible for evangelical independence to be imposed on the law and fortification of journalists. Then there is what each person can say, and it is a challenge to restrict the freedom of expression. But if large corporations with large elements in the community offend society by their spoken language, they will lose their respect for the same community. I think putting freedom of expression on that subject is very complicated. We can make clear rules about the use of resources and can be more supportive with the media in order to do our job. But I also think that if people offend society through their language, it will affect their social status.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u28	Thanks for that, though it wasn't my question. But I certainly agree that the right of the nation over its resources has to be guaranteed. The currently available bill of private media is simply not far enough. There have been visitors from both the smaller and the larger media, the smaller ones saying that the larger ones will get most of this money, and the larger ones have preferably wanted to talk about the need to take RUV away from a commercial market. I find it interesting, too, that it will not be good for Samherja, on the free market, I expect. It just doesn't work that way, because this union has tremendous power in its power because it is filled with people who base their safety on working with them. It is important to take action. I'm calling for the highest. Ministers are going to do something to stem the abnormal property of rich people and interest groups in Iceland. How will a minister ensure that society can rely on the media to provide control systems and those using national resources?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u29	Mr. President. Hv. A senator asked about the presentation of large corporations in a previous question, but now he asks about the possession of rich people on the media. It is a completely new subject that might be better to talk to the highest. Secretary of education, i.e. Who's going to have the press? Some time ago, this discussion was about distributing property on the media, and it went the way it did. So I think that's a really complicated question. A senator brings up the question: Who can have a medium? I believe, however, that by improving the government's support of the media, as is suggested by this government, in fact, the first thing that it does, we make it better for the media to fulfill its role in a democratic society. Likewise, we make it possible for people to run the media that is not simply wealthy, such as the dog. A senator witnesses to this point, i.e. We support the base of the network of the unique media. It's part of a government contract, that's why I've been talking, and it's been my move for a long time. [[The president calls.]] But I think it's very difficult to give a perspective on who may have the media.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u30	V.E.G. President. These days are the annual spawning stop, the 30th in a continuous row. Thus, in 1992 it had been said that the hatch had been under average for several years and that the spawning population had reached its minimum historical minimum. On the basis of it, it was decided to give cods peace to spawn, thus increasing the possibility of better recruitment in the years to come. The increased consumption of larger ships in shallow waters, which catch with drafts has led to massive fishing in a shallow cod, which is, of course, very bad, and I would like to ask the highest level. Minister if he is interested in dealing with this situation by limiting the application of drag to a shallow path as used in the past. There is also much concern about a great deal of resources. Almost wherever you go at cod fishing, you hunt as a means of power and in some places so much of it that it is the dominant figure in the cohesion. This is despite the fact that humans are trying to avoid areas where the sea is catching a lot of fish. I'd like to ask the highest, too. A minister whether he intends to react to this great challenge and if he thinks about how he intends to do it and when arrangements can be faced with some reaction to this problem, which is certainly a problem and risking evasion if nothing has to be done or if a boat has to be docked. Then I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to the beach fishing business that is about to begin, and hopefully they will succeed in the summer, if he intends to seek all ways to secure them for 48 days. I understand the highest. A minister has recently been considering that it would be possible to ensure 48 days in coastal fishing. I'm very happy with it, if you know what I mean. A minister is working on it, and it has been requested for a long time and good to know if a minister sees the possibility of it this summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u31	A respectable president. Thank you. A member of the council, although late, asked. Yet, there are important questions. The first thing about the spawning and hunting of cod is the spawning stop, which has been performed for many years, as noted in the case of young people. Senator. I think the Regulation on this issue has not really been changed for 15 years. And it was already inside. So I think we can totally agree that it is a good thing and, in fact, a great deal of peace over the arrangement of trying to protect the spawning population by stopping its fishing over this most delicate time. Even if you're beginning to hear a claim, it's only a matter of extension. However, there has been debates, depending on the area it is, around the river of larger ships by 12 miles. We know of the discussion that has taken place, even for the past two years, the changes to the east, at the city fair, and there. We also have the Southland and the Smokeynes. Fortunately, we now have better information on the land cover of the parish of Icelandic fishing ships. We have even. can draw information from the Fishing Room about what kind of thing this is. I don't know about it, and I don't know it. I don't have the numbers that codfish in the base path grew dramatically in recent years, I don't know it. I know, though, that in the past, there was a great catch. I'm sure that's what you're looking at. So I'll tell you if you're going to react to the draft especially, I haven't been to that place to take it outside as a special fishing tool. As for the beach fishing, I'm going to come to that later in my answer, and as for the argument, I'll answer why. A senator in the second man's answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u32	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I would have liked to have a clearer response to whether there was something to look at in the catch on the cod, since it is just a major problem with the fishing industry. I believe there must be some way to deal with the problem in the way you cooperate with Merro, as well as with the drag to the ground where people have complained for a very long time and have been responding to the outside of the Cities Ocean. I'd also like to ask you about cross-checking. It's been cut down from year to year, if it's the highest. The minister plans to correct the sources that go to cross-country and ensure them to the end of this fishing year and a little more on whether he intends to ensure a beach hunt during the summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u33	A respectable president. I'm sorry, I couldn't get over to the flare. We have responded. I've increased fiasco levels. Last week I issued a Regulation about that. The target was increased by 8,000 tons, from 44,000 tons to 52,000 tons. We did so in a good discussion with the Marine Research Institute, which put it in such a way that the Agency would not violate the growth of the target in the current year. They have our experts'opinion that this should be subtracted from the release of the next year, and we have presented it in this way, even though I think it's a special decision. With regard to the coastal fishing: Yes, we've been looking at options in this regard. And so do the citation, we've been adding it so gradually. My main concern is that we have 5.3% of the laws that set the Ministry's boundaries on what can be done. But so far, we've got all the space we've got to make it count to the beach, and my emphasis is for it. [[The president calls.]] As the situation is today, we haven't been on our way to it yet, but we're on the watch, as they say.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u34	Like what? Allied officials, known as Tryggvi Gunnarsson, the emissary of the Generals, have been granted release from office by May 1. It is General's job to vote for an agent, and it is also the World Council Presidency Committee to make a suggestion to the council for an individual in the office. The Presidency Committee appointed three members of his company to provide a proposal for the presiding committee for an individual in election to the office of the Council of the Council. The Subcommittee appointed the one here speaking, the servant of S. Brjánsson and Bryndís Haraldsdóttir. The Subcommittee received advice on three specialists, who appointed the former Supreme Court judge, Kristín Benediktsdóttir, at the University of Iceland's Law, and Herdís Pálsdóttir, the director of the management field and HR director of Delotte. Both committees work in accordance with the rules set out by the prime committee to prepare for the election of an individual in order to perform the office of a state accountant or a member of the General Assembly. Such rules are found on the Generals' Web site. The vote applies to 7 mg. 82. g. Congress states that when it comes to choosing one person, they are the only ones designated and not to object. At this morning's meeting of the Presidency Committee, one was approved to appoint Skúli Magnússon, the governor of the County Court of Reykjavík, as U.S. Marshal for the next four years. Other appointments have not been received by a president within the period of the law, so Skúli is elected alone. The President has decided that the vote will be made by the vote system, such as by Congress. It can be tied to a secret written vote. The vote system will now be set so that the tablets on the wall will show only the votes and not the way they voted, nor the storage memory of the computer. Those who choose the Skúli Magnússon press the yes button but those who want to return the blank push on the button marked, do not vote. No button is inactive. A yellow light on the middle button of the council when a vote has been paid, no matter which button you have pressed. Similarly, only yellow lights are on the wall.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u35	Skúli Magnússon has been elected U.S. marshal with 49 votes, 4 do not vote. As soon as I welcome Skúli Magnússon to work, I'd like to thank Tryggvi Gunnarsson for his long and successful career as U.S. Marshal, who has served that office for more than 22 years, who accepted the office of agent on November 1, 1998.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u36	Mr. President. I think I'm one of the senators who have always supported it, with one exception, that the petition will be accepted. However, I do feel that I do well to call attention to the fact that the Allied Council had a special research committee on the fall of the savings funds. If I'm right, Mr. President, that report cost 500 million. K. It was handed to the General Assembly in April 2014. I wondered, " What will be the new issue of this report request that has not been presented in the huge report delivered to the Council of 2014? ' I think it's okay to wonder when we decide to accept such a request: What is being sought for? What new information is here expected?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u37	Mr. President. I'll inform the council and what. A senator on what is being requested in this request. On April 22, 2010, the SEC made a decision on the provision of property and the debt of the Satisf Chefvik to the SKef savings Fund. This was done in an effort to save depositors from losing money on the savings of the savings fund. Then the Icelandic government founded the savings Fund SpKef. According to a report published by the State's Accounting, the cost of growth was 25 billion in total. Because of Mr. SpKef. The payment was given to the Bank of Lands, with a bond of government. The State owed itself to pay the Bank of Land, the difference between property and debt. In view of all of this, it is important that the taxpayers and the State Department be informed about the damage caused by the Bank, including the national bank. what was the real harm to the Bank of Land Bank and to the European Commission of the Land Bank, i.e. each overcrowding property due to the SKef was arranged and at what price. It is also of great importance to know what information was already available about the financial status and financial problem of the Cheflavík Savings Fund when making such a dramatic decision on the provision of funds from the state fund was taken. Study project, i.e. Generalis, was investigating the effects and causes of the difficulties and fall of the savings fund. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] She was not assigned to investigate the processing of the savings fund. [[The president calls.]] At that time, the NTSB failed to address the ultimate damage of the state funds because of a decision on the disposition of property and the debt of the savings of Keflavík and SKef's savings, or the property of the Bank. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The purpose of this request is to shed light on this government interests that have not been discussed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u38	The speech period was long over.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u39	Mr. President. In the context of a report request, there has been some debate that it might be better before a filing report request is submitted to a vote at the Senate Hall for some discussion, e.g. ... ona committee. That idea has been moving, including. ... ona matter of the Senate Committee. This is not to speak of preventing a report request from being submitted. Rather, it is to make clear only the purpose of the report request, and that all members of the Parliament have a better position to determine whether or not there is a basis for the reporting in the form it is proposed. However, as members of Congress know, reports are presented without warning, without discussion, and without any conversation about how this is to be done. I think this case a little bear evidence that a good thing had been to have had a little discussion about it, e.g. to sharpen the new information you can expect to provide such a report. [[The president calls.]] Like what? paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason pointed out that a major investigation has taken place earlier on these exact issues. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u40	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Healthcare Minister for special attention to the changes in the management of cervical and breast cancer screening procedures. Substantial criticism of the changes, preparation, and induction of a new arrangement has been observed. I support the transfer of the service to the health care unit. That's a good change. However, my opinion is that there have been a total of overemphasis regarding performance and information, and there has been a temporary interruption or delay in the ministry. This process of change is not before the end, and it has been a little too small, so when one problem is solved, another comes out. Special groups have been founded on community media to discuss these matters, and the discussion has repeatedly reached the Senate Hall, but today we have a fine opportunity to deepen our discussion. The purpose of this discussion is to understand the change in the management of this project and to focus on how progressive changes in management will be conducted from now on, the perspective and coordination of the service assured for the future, and the right way to build confidence in the arrangement. In my opinion, the most important project is to embrace the group of individuals who have had to wait too long for the results and further analyses and services due to the breach that took place. They need to recognize and respect the position they are in. These include women who have waited six months or a half years for information about whether they need further research, even taking a four - week waiting period for their next medical appointment. V.E.G. A minister must find a way to put his arm around this group. I don't know how big this group is, but these are women in a more delicate position who need to be treated with respect while working with the whole process, that's clear and trustworthy, as has been done in the past few months. I also have concerns about too many intermediate personnel in handling show in the current research program. The difference between cervical and breast cancers is in all women of the country - yes, husbands, fathers, brothers, and sons. As a result, each country's home is affected by its impact on health care as a whole. In February 2020, we discussed a planned change here, depending on the circumstances. paritaprevir The Halla "Signý" Sigar new Kristjánsdóttir. It was clearly observed in the highest range. Healthcare Ministers that this service must be reliable and based on the best knowledge at any given time, and it is also important that it be available in all parts of the country. To help me understand the situation and the way ahead, I would like to direct the following questions to the minister: When was the decision to make for the changes in the arrangement made, and who came to that decision? How was the responsibility for visualization and change management defined to ensure the integration and guidance of change? What is the purpose of achieving a targeted change in control and perspective from now on? Under that point, there is a natural great deal to consider, e.g. how a more professional decision-making about future screening arrangements will be conducted and how changes in the frequency and age parameters of screens will be presented, in line with the changes dropped in January. Who is to follow the role of single women in the screening program after the change, and who is assigned to represent a general invitation to women? Who is aimed at ensuring follow-up and access to more frequent screenings for increased risks, such as history of cytogenetic changes, HPV analyses, bowling alleys, or subsequent diagnosis of genetic factors such as BRCA? Where should women who need further research because of the results of screening turn and are assured of a reasonable way to experts? Has the time of reply become acceptable? Finally: Does it create the vision to be analysed in Denmark any new challenges to safety in handling show, personal protection, and the storage of biopsies?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u41	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator took the initiative, but the senator requested a discussion about the possibility of screening for cervical and breast cancers and changes that happened at the end of the year. These changes have been very long. The primary objective of changing monitors from year to year is to bring the organization closer to what is recommended in international screening guidelines, thereby ensuring further safety and quality of screens here. The improved monitoring is also in line with the future vision, and the primary objective of health policy to the year 2030 agreed by the Council for 2019. In accordance with the cancer program, surgeons set up a cross-cutting, regardless of their screening guide to implement proposals for future cancer screening for and for national treatment procedures. Following the completion of the screening board, surgeons provided proposals for the administration, location, administration, and screening that were based on the opinion and professional counselling of the screening board. It was estimated that it was time for a screening programme in Iceland to be introduced in nearly the recommended European sensory guidance and provided suggestions carefully for the introduction of the European cancer programme and health policy to the year 2030. The proposals for screening are in accordance with European and national screening programmes, and it is considered by the surgeon to be more likely to increase the risk that projects involved in operations, quality and monitoring will be more likely to be performed if screened as part of the general and public health care. Substitutional screening for cervical cancer and breast cancer, which took place for the past few years, is in line with the opinion and suggestions of the surgeon and the body council of the office. With a letter from the Ministry of Health in June 2020, the surgeon general's office, the health care of the capital area, the country's health care throughout the country, the Land Hospital and the Hospital at Akureyri were formally assigned the role and responsibility of the altered organization and the execution of cancer screenings from the end of the New Year's Eve. The switch of responsibilities between the last few years is as follows: An advanced surgeon was given the full preview of cancer screening, including the responsibility for the testing instructions. In addition, surgeons are responsible for setting effective criteria and quality indicators for screening and monitoring for the effectiveness and implementation of screening. The health care of the capital area was entrusted with business and responsibility for the cancerski Coalition, which includes the role of the others. ....................................................................................................................................... This even hides. in the context of the planned screening and co-ordination with those involved in a planned, population-based screening. The facility is responsible for the screening procedure and ensures that women who wish to participate in the screening will have the opportunity to do so. It ensures that women are informed about the screening, screening results and follow-up information. National health care has been assigned to take samples for cervical cancer screening and has a good effect on health care. Hospitals were entrusted with the implementation of screening for breast cancer as well as a special examination of breast and cervix for the whole country. The National Hospital is appointed to cooperate with the Akureyri Hospital and to have the premeditation of cooperation between the director of other health institutions for the screening of breast cancer and a special examination of the breast with the aim of reaching women abroad. Since 2017, the Landspians have taken special checks on the breast and from the past few years, the hospital was screened for breast cancer and cervicaloscopy, but a screening for breast cancer in the capital area has been taken from Skögaröll to Erik Street. In Akureyri there is a screening for breast cancer at the Akureyri Hospital, as it has been. Therefore, the tenant will arrange for screening in the region in cooperation with the Akureyri Hospital, with a similar arrangement and for changes. Regarding cervical screening in the country, midwives and nurses at health care centres have been shown to be screened for cervical cancer since 2015 and received special training for this, but now they have been trained to take cervical samples. Thus, the use of cervical samples has only changed in the capital area. The application of gynaecologists to screens for cervical cancer screening remains unchanged, i.e. gynaecologists can take samples according to the screening instructions and send them for analysis. Today, women receive results from screening on the island, the same arrangement that took place until the end of the year. In later years, data will be available at health clinics.is where women can see the results and when the next screening will be scheduled according to national cancer clinic guidelines.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u42	Mr. President. First, I want to thank you for this need for the heat issues these screens have been in the winter. It was recently observed that there are still six weeks of minimum waiting for the results of analysis of samples from the time they were taken. It is contrary to repeated statements earlier in the year that a diagnostic process would take two to three weeks. In recent days, we have learned that women who were screened in November of last year are now getting results. The conclusion is that even the woman needs further investigation. Mr. President. So we are talking about a six - month waiting period in the uncertainty. All this time, women have been waiting in fear and uncertainty, and they have no idea when they would hear the results. They have even heard from the media that their DNA is found in cardboard boxes in the housing of the capital area in Hamburg. What would Persian protection say about this? Now that they finally hear of their need for further research, they are naturally troubled by anxiety and anger. They feel ignored. On top of this, in the contract with a Danish investigator, you should keep a normal sample for six years. In this country, the vision has been stored for ten years. I ask: Is this change in accordance with the law on biographies and patient law? How much confusion can we endure in these matters? Mr. President. No. Of course, this operation is to be done on land. Here is knowledge, equipment, and all other equipment. Thus all of this would be less expensive than most safe than the current process. I also ask, Mr. President, where would we be discussing this matter if it had not been a powerful struggle for the women who have been under the motto Acceptable to Women's Health? Where would we be?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u43	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you very much for this conversation that has been informative and informative. I agree with the anxieties of the thousands of women who signed a challenge to the highest degree. Secretary of health, and I'm taking care of a verbal advocate. It has been interesting to observe government statements regarding these changes in women's health care, which were reported to be in preparation for at least Two years, but as has been noted many times, a year's years of unsatisfactory success took place. In his speech, he placed the highest power. Health Ministers responsible for the office of surgeons, health professionals, and Hospitals, but the responsibility for insufficient preparation is the highest. Minister. Following the transfer of all these medical services from the cancer community and health care services, not all of which have adequate access, to parts of the Land Hospital and to a dance laboratory, more and more women are in complete uncertainty about the loss of their cervical samples, including women who are in complete uncertainty. women who have previously been diagnosed with cytogenetic changes and who have experienced events also attended a bowling alley with associated follow-up. They're now inexplicable. That a number of women have not been answered almost all this year, after a performance in January or February, there is a lax service in the administration of the government that can't escape responsibility. The late and ill answers to women who have reached conclusions lead to great inconveniences in these women, as can be seen in a talk by a large group of women in the local community who discuss their concerns with their sex sisters. Mr. President. The situation was the highest. Healthcare Minister of light at the beginning of this year, but now at the end of April, this transfer has not been completed sufficiently, and is unfortunate.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u44	A respectable president. It is a pleasure to say that in the last year the health of women in Iceland has been very much discussed. In fact, it would have been better if the reason was not for fear of women over changes in the way we shot for cancer. In this regard, however, it is important to me that we realize that so far the involvement of Icelandic women in breast screening has been unacceptable, or around 60%. Of course, we should set our sights on 753/4.80%. I expect the highest. Therefore, a health minister will follow closely after monitoring how this trend will occur after any changes in the programme for breast cancer. I'd like to take this opportunity and add a little bit to the question run to the highest level. Minister. During unprepared question period of March 3rd. I discussed these matters at the highest. Secretary of health. Then we discussed extensions that had occurred in changing the age, lower limit, about the breast screening. As anyone knows, the secretary has deferred that decision. Has the final decision been made on when we are going to breast-feed? Then I'd like to throw in the discussion if it's not wise to invite women from 40 years of age to breast screening, although the emphasis on gaining more participation is at 50 years of age. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Minister to screening for colorectal cancer. That's a matter that's been going on for a long time, and we've got quite an old Senate arrangement on this matter. V.E.G. A minister has answered that it is in preparation. If a minister had the opportunity to enter it in his speech, I think it would be most intriguing to know what we can see in those topics. [[The president calls.]] When can we start that screening, and what would the arrangement be?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u45	President. It's a common story that I hear around me from other women where someone had been sick for a long time and nothing was found, but then the person had cancer and died a little later. It could be classified as rumors or rumors, but I've only heard it from so many sources and so many times I've come to believe it myself. I don't think that women in general do not trust the health system to provide adequate care for their health and life. But I'm going to be content with the opportunity to read here from a report made by the Operational Team Access to the health of women this morning. That's where even the two of them come from. until, by permission of the President: ▪ It is safe to say that the present situation is totally unacceptable and does not ensure the safety and quality of this kind of work. The wait for results from a sample is far too long and it has been found that if a woman needs further investigation or surgery after the result is received, the wait is also too long. Clearly, neither health care nor health care have weighed the risks of the changes made, and the status of the project is, unfortunately, still in complete disintegration. At the end of this announcement, the company is anxious about the channel and is requested to be turned around the first. Thus, confidence in the cervical canal is now at the lowest and far in the country until it returns. The confidence that women in general have in the medical system is not particularly strong, but I will discuss it more in the next talk. Does Ministers believe that the procedures that will be taken in the cervical canal and have been taken to ensure that women and hysterics can trust these screenings?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u46	A respectable president. March 2nd. I, along with 25 other members of the council, wanted to do the utmost. A health minister would be assigned to report changes in the structure and conduct screening for cervical cancer. That is what I did after a lot of criticism from women and doctors and health care professionals. The result of these changes is insecurity to the system. It's an unacceptable situation. The secretary of the council has ten weeks to report such a report to the council, but tomorrow eight weeks have passed. Yet little has been heard, and none of this work. Information was requested from the council president on April 14, but answers on the situation have not been received. The reason I mention the time limit is that the request has been made, by permission of the president: ... that the report on the above factors will be performed by an independent organisation. It is desirable to consult with members of a body of members for the independent party that will be assigned to the work. But now that there are two weeks there for the Minister to report to the council, nothing has been heard from the highest level. Health Minister on which members will be assigned to do so. This, I think, is in line with another preparation of the case or any of these changes on the part of the government. All of this is missing. There is no need for conversation with women who have all of this service, and there is no conversation with the system itself. The aim of the report request was to get answers to important questions so that information on this is available, for example. who was and what evidence was behind it? I am disappointed to see now that eight weeks have passed, no evidence that there is a problem with this job, and I offer a professional opinion of the case. An honest and thorough discussion will have to take place, and the Council has, in fact, agreed to do so. A respectable president. Women deserve better than this. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is this report intended to be carried out according to the council's clear will?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u47	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. Senator Anna Sævarsdóttir for this discussion. The transfer of cervical screening from the cancer center to the health care system seemed to highlight the health - care directors how many undiagnosed specimens followed. In a report on the subject of Reykdalsson Roddalsson, director of health care, the president of the clinic, has a word for word, according to the president's permission: I don't think this is an error, it took just a little longer than we would have wanted, of course, we would have wanted to do it two, three weeks earlier. He expected some samples from the cancer club, not 2,000. But wouldn't it have been a short wait if the contracts with the Danish lab had been ready in January? ◯ Yeah, I guess it's them. - That's what Óskar says. -Yes, I'm sure it is. Would it not have been one of the main authorities' tasks in translocation to determine how many samples would come from the cancer community that would need to be analyzed and to ensure that the vision would be examined immediately rather than to be stored for more weeks? The cancer club claims that it was prior to the beginning of November that the Society would stop analysis by November 6 and send them to check with the health care provider. It is the responsibility of the government to make sure that such a matter does not arise. There should never have been any doubt about how many samples would come from the Cancer Society and when the analysis would have to be performed. Hence, the decision to negotiate with a Danish hospital for analysis shows far beyond criticism. Icelandic doctors report that there is a skills and equipment available for the implementation of HPVskiir. It is therefore surprising that the government would rather send the vision on a trip to Denmark. It's just a matter of extending the procedure, increasing the risk. The government must answer what justice is involved in sending samples to foreign lands at screening.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u48	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for your discussion and thank you. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir negative for bringing this up. At the beginning of the last year, it became clear that changes were ahead of us. Twice I focused on this important matter in queries to the highest degree. Minister. It is now six months from the time of the change. There are a number of factors that have taken place, but it seems that an important point has not been reached. It is clear that while the objectives of the change have not been reached, the target for the proposed target is increasing the participation of women in a reduced screening process as well as the security of women with cancer. There seems to be a limited amount of change in control here. It is important in all changes that, if it is to be improved, information should be made powerful. It's failed here. The latest reports in the media show that women are waiting for an abnormally long time for the results of cervical samples, the leak of knowledge, and a longer distance from the goal we planned for ourselves to treat women with cancer on the land. This does not guarantee any safety or quality that is reserved for such activities. It is of utmost importance that women will be combined in an organized search for cervical and breast cancer. Women must be able to trust that screening will continue safely. Sadly, in recent years women have found that they have had less difficulty in reaching out for this privilege of service. By means of good preparation and loyal service, and good and accessible information, it can be refurbished again.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u49	Mr. President. Talk about health care is always important, and discussion about women's health care is of utmost importance. I want to thank you very much. A minister who has shown tremendous interest in the health of women in his work as a minister. This is important, for we know that women have not always received the services they need, and unfortunately, their medical circumstances have sometimes changed. It is important to talk about it and it is important to deal with it. V.E.G. In his speech, a minister reviewed the possibility of a change in cancerski organization. I believe the emphasis on bringing the organization closer to what is recommended in international screening guidelines is important. That we need to get better at women and increase their participation in screening. However, I agree that the waiting period for answers has been too long, and I believe that it is working to shorten it and to improve that career. To say this, I also believe that by changing the arrangement and making these screenings part of the public health care program, it is taking a very important step because women's greetings are not meant to be but, rather, must be intertwined. [[The president calls.]] There I believe that the arrival of the government, and that extramarital situation, was of utmost importance.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u50	Mr. President. I want to start my case because of you. The apocalyptic and the highest. Minister for this discussion on very important health issues. As is well known, the decision made by a health minister to send a cervical sample to Denmark was severely criticized by women and gynecologists and oncologists. It has been observed that cervical samples can be detected in this country and that they have been observed in the field hospital's response to the Ministry's inquiry, which is referred to here in the news on March 17 of the year. I'd like to refer to the Medical Association's conclusions since February 8th. which says, by permission of the President: A surgeon, an Icelandic gynecologist, and anatal doctor's community, a research team, and a greater part of the National Research Centre for cervical cancer screening to aim for all aspects of the screening process to be carried out in this country. Then, Mr. President, I would like to quote an open letter to the health minister of Anna Margrét Jónsdóttir, president of the Social Research Association, and specialist in pathology, in which she says: ▪ A health minister says it is a security matter to get outsiders to analyze the vision. It is worth considering that the health minister should speak down Icelandic laboratories and be concerned that samples are sent from the country on grounds that the quality and safety of research within the country cannot be guaranteed. Mr. President. Finally, I will quote articles by Anna Margrét Jónsdóttir, Ísleifur Ólafsson, and Þorbjörn Jónsson, all of whom are doctors and directors of the European Research Association. [[The president calls.]] The article refers to an accident in the administration board and is traced, as well as in interviews, to the need for an assessment of the political accidents that have taken place here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u51	Mr. President. It is clear that there has been a post-mortem condition in one of the most important health factors during this term, which are changes in screening for cervical and breast cancers. The reason for the decision to change the procedure has been unclear. The action has been misdirected, badly organized, and, above all, misdirected to women, who have caused insecurity and a lack of confidence in the system to serve women and their health. This failure has been dramatic, and it has now been reported that a group of over 14,000 women and their victims who started the signing collection over two months ago sent out a press release today because women had not yet come to a conclusion in their studies this year. The group reports that the process of diagnosis and share of the results of cervical cancer screening is fragmented. There's no planning information available to women. Mr. President. Why was it decided to negotiate with a laboratory in Denmark for the diagnosis of cervical samples taken here when the research could be done here, which according to experts would have meant a more rapid and more targeted process? In the case of lower research costs in Denmark, as the Ministry of Health has claimed, no clear information on the lower costs has been submitted. Many months have passed without a clear explanation for women's cervical screening and the process of doing so, much less professionally. Mr. President. It is not acceptable for women to have results in their own personal cervical screening months after the sample was taken. Unsure, anxiety, and distrust create feelings of distress and fear, which could easily have been avoided by means of organized and clear practices of the Ministry of Health. If the purpose was to bring the organization closer to international standards, why didn't the process have been coordinated and organized so that the screening and communication would go on rapidly and safely when the first samples were sent to Denmark? Mr. President. Today, there are still women who have not had the final results, though they were initially screened in November of last year. Others have even come to the conclusion that they need further research after a nearly six - month period of uncertainty and fear. These tests may take up to four weeks. [[The president calls.]] This is an unsurpassed work, both of the women and of their neighbors, as well as of their physicians, at the beginning of the summer. [[The president calls.]] The present situation in these aspects of women's health is entirely unacceptable and does not guarantee the safety and quality that women and their caregivers deserve. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u52	A respectable president. Here we discuss important health care, which is indeed a matter of preconceived care, and it is of utmost importance to our public health. I think that this and its history have a lot in common with others in our other cool and good health systems. Our health - care system has recently shown in Covid; health care, land hospital, nurses, and institutions throughout the country have shown tremendous persistence and efficiency with excellent measures in solving the situation. They are screening and vaccinating all day long while performing another service. It's no big deal. It's always a matter of order and order. How are we going to do things and have them as the most accessible, with the ministry as the most efficient, so that our services and economics are the most effective? While access is good and services are good, more are being screened, and we are getting the results of this course. And the more practical it is, the more we can do at screenings and add more species of cancer - and so on. This may be the big problem we have in many of our health systems, whether it's in Iceland's Medical Insurance or somewhere else in the system, that we need something to say: What are we going to buy? What service are we seeking, and who offers to provide it in the most practical, most accessible, and best possible way? It's in the place we need to get to. We succeeded in handling health care in the capital area. It was just what kind of service we were going to buy, and everyone was paid to do the same. They know what is being planned and then the business plans work to do it in the best possible way. We need to fix these screenings. We need to leave the analysis in the country and do this so that it is accessible and we reach our goals.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u53	President. Diseases and the effects of disease or drugs on the polder have not been placed on the table of medicine in the medical community. Data on disease and drug effects are based on the male body and, as with so many others, modern medicine is based on studies conducted by men. The latest example is that when vaccination with Covid-19 appeared to cause blood clots, the vaccine was immediately stopped until proven otherwise, while the contraceptive pill for the uterus was written up to 12 years of age, although it is clear that there is a massive risk of blood clots from taking the medicines. The reason that medical science does not know why the pill has such an effect on young women may be that they are not interested in knowing this. In fact, there are so many accounts in which a person's womb is sent to doctors to say that he or she has hysteria or the disease of the womb, and later it becomes apparent that it is tissue, chronic stress, or even cancer. What will the Ministry of Health do to ensure long - term respect for the health system toward those who have been buried, and how will the Ministry build up the trust of the head of the people with regard to the health system?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u54	Mr. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir tune, it's a great thing to open up. During the short time I have wanted to focus on the true reason that the multi-name samples are moved to Denmark and why so many different reasons have been given for that transfer. It happens that when I was preparing, I got on Facebook pages from the top row. A health minister from February reporting from the highest point of view. Minister, or VG, the objective of a cancer examination to the health care and the objective of the performance to Denmark. That's where even the two of them come from. to ensure that there would be adequate diagnostic skills in this country that new decisions might be made. That certainly was interesting to me. From my point of view, this is yet another argument that has ever existed. Health authorities' rationale that the sample should be moved to Denmark has been put under pressure from Covid-19 Hospital, a shortage of the Land Hospital's will to receive the studies, and a foreseeing decrease in the analysis in small Iceland that makes it impossible to do the work here. These claims have all been spoken against by professionals in this country, especially by professionals in the Land Hospital. Then there's the cost. The evidence has not been supported, nor has it answered the reason why an invitation was overlooked, as it were. No matter how you calculate, this is always far from the amount of money that is generally considered mandatory in the purchase of public service. So these are questions that have not been answered. There are many things underneath; women's health and that feeling that for some reason they have set out on an uncertainty tour with women's health. Of course, that alone is completely unacceptable. [[The president calls.]] The other is also bad, that women's confidence in the ministry has been damaged. [[The president calls.]] That alone is a major concern, even though the fact is that the underlying reason why questions have not been answered is that there is someone other than the fact that there is no answer. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u55	A respectable president. We're being screened for cervical cancer. Doctors have called upon to see information about contracts with the hospital in Hvidovre and have criticized that this project has not been undertaken. If this arrangement was to save money, it is long aware that the potential benefits are gone, and the number of samples needed to be redesigned at the beginning of the contract. At that time, governments have to make their own way clean and explain why the decision was made to transfer these tasks from the cancer society. Did it affect the appearance of fewer screens when the HPV vaccine arrives at the time of screening age? Did it make sense to discover the wrong diagnosis by the cancer club? Did information regarding the wrong diagnosis have to do with the government's decision to move screens away from the cancer cell? We have to realize that now in the middle of Covid, the fact is, somewhere I made figures that the occurrence of cancer has decreased to 50% in certain types of cancer. It doesn't tell us that there were miracles, that there are 50% that are identified. It's because the situation is that they don't get as many analyses as they used to. This, on its own, tells us that we need to take these matters seriously and that we need to analyze them as soon as possible. There should be no waiting time, and we should make sure that all of this is on the surface and done immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u56	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers of the answers and all those who participated in the discussion. I'd like to reiterate that I agree with the reasons for the changes in the management of cervical and breast cancers, but that's why I'm also more concerned with the success and continuation of the procedure and the improvement of the situation. There is no doubt that the transition could have been successful. The ministry was interrupted. The analysis period has been too long, although progress is improving in the number of sample recipients during the past few weeks, many have improved. But a better view of such a complicated process of transformation is needed. It's, I think, not enough to hide parts of a letter project. It requires coordination, one co-star, and therefore can be replaced for the future. I continue to worry about the risks of failure to transfer information from the Icelandic research database to the dance site and then back again when data are available that in all studies there are weak links where such transfer takes place. Therefore, I ask, "Do I continue to examine the possibility of doing my research here?'And if the results could be developed faster into a health environment, such as I think is the goal. Then I'd like to reiterate at the highest. Ministers that it is important to find a way of handling the group of women who came between the change and especially those women who had some particular supervision. But the Icelandic health - care system has shown that it can do this well.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u57	A respectable president. Thank you for having a great discussion here. I'm gonna try to answer the queries that have been received in this round. I'll start at the end where it hurts. A senator and a divulgeer ask if the National Hospital could take up these tests. I have previously discussed in the Generals' talk that last summer, the Land Hospital answered that he was not reaching out for the project. In view of this, there were other routes to investigate, and the agreement with Hvidovre had to be made. Then came the speculations and comments made by various doctors and others in a local hospital referred to in the discussion. So I thought it was time to see if the hospital had changed. The answer was urgent, and now it is a review of the health care of the capital area. I guess I'm getting some answers from the health care department this week. So this might mean that the service was properly performed here. Now the situation has come to be, so an answer comes within six weeks. The purpose of the contract is three to four weeks. The ball we inherited at the transfer was 3,300 samples. They have been sent outside, and answers to them have been received. But there are still some of the answers that have not been received, i.e. due to revocation. Of course, we need to fix it, and we aim to achieve the right rhythm in this regard. There's also a request for colonics. We have a meeting with the health care of the capital area later in the week on that matter, for we have reserved funds to begin planning for it. During this discussion, it was claimed that women were less involved in screening. [[The president calls.]] There haven't been any numbers, but we have no data on this. The central screening centre will keep track of these data. [[The president calls.]] This is, as we have seen, a large public health problem and we want to see a significant increase in participation. [[The president calls.]] But this was what we were most concerned about, and our cancer society had it too before the decision was made to move to public parties. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u58	A respectable president. After the return of Iceland to green with the European Environment Agency's ink card, one European country, two group infections have been flared up in the last few weeks. Population analysis has shown that the British species are involved and this group can be attributed to leakage on a border. It is important to note that the cross-infection is not linked to the releases that occurred ten days ago, but to events that occurred before the last month's conventions. Reactions have been the same as before, i.e. sample, isolation, transmission and infestation for those suspected to have been infected, while also screening Icelandic genetic testing for community transmission during the past week to find potential asymptomatic individuals with no positive samples detected. Now we're getting reports of a few Covid infections in Elfus, so we can assume that the virus is out in the community. Today it is uncertain whether this group can be passed on by local measures, but according to the covid.is, a total of 351 persons are infected by aseptic catheter, 1,100 in a so-called screening district, 169 persons in isolation and five in hospital, according to figures this morning. For vaccinations, it is safe to say that their status is good and successful. On Friday, April 23rd, nearly 81,000 subjects had received the first or both doses of the vaccine against Covid-19 and are being vaccinated with less than one third of the target population intended to be vaccinated in this country. Full-vaccinated infants were conducted on Friday, 32,609 individuals, with the highest planned week of vaccination for this week when more than 25,000 doses of vaccine are administered, of whom 23,000 subjects receive prior vaccinations. Plans estimate that at the beginning of May, all over 60 years of age have received at least the first dose of the vaccine against Covid19 and 50 years of age and above at the beginning of June. It is planned that all over 16 years of age have received a previous vaccination at the beginning of July. Established delivery schedules assume that this week approximately 32,000 doses will be delivered to the country that will be used next week and will therefore aim for even higher weekly vaccinations here next week. Because it was successful to develop a group disease that started at the end of March with a severe operation for three weeks, it was decided that a psychiatrist's proposal to reduce the restrictions was made from April 15 on. At that time, the number of restrictions was emptied, sports was permitted, and swimming and exercise stations were opened. On April 21, minor variations in the national boundaries took place for harmony and slight detoxification. As noted, last week the government introduced a program on continuing recovery of restrictions within the country at the rate of the increase in vaccinations. It is estimated that all 16 years of age and older received at least one vaccination of July 1, as noted, in addition to those at risk cohorts, they will be fully vaccinated and the limitations can be corrected within the country in the latter part of June or near the month's end when 75% of those who are scheduled to receive a prior or both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. Tomorrow, the value of a new district, isolation and demonstration of the Iceland border for Covid-19 will take place, but the main change on the border will be that everyone from state to state, or who has stayed in countries where 14 days of exposure to infection is more than 500 per 100,000 inhabitants, has to enter a disease-infested environment while leaving a passenger from a state where there is a new incidence between 500 and 700, can be applied for the separation from a facility, provided that the person can be infested with infection according to local regulations and standards. It will not be granted to those who come from countries with over 700 incidences except important reasons for doing so, such as disability, development, or other comparable circumstances for candidates. However, those who have proof of vaccination or previous infection are protected from disease following their arrival in the country but need to have one sample of the border. In short, it can be said that the epidemic is at a very delicate stage, and our emphasis is all on the border and that the regulations for the environment are being followed. My hope is that groups can be reduced by local measures and that there is no need to take active action within the country. Vaccination is exerted vigorously, and I think all members of the Parliament can thank the health care provider for a powerful, handsome outside of that procedure. So it all goes well, and it's to help us when we can relax the arrangements within the country, step by step.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u59	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Pre-historic minister. As the people around the world know, there was considerable noise during the past Wednesday and Thursday when the changes in alcohol laws were accepted with a smaller part of the vote after the committee had entered the council from time to time. A welfare committee where a smaller section of the Committee signed the procedure. I want to pray to the highest. Healthcare Minister to review it in short, if possible, in what way the two regulations presented for the presentation of the case - for of course the bill and then the two guidelines presented for presentation, on the one hand by the health minister and by the Minister of Justice, were respected overall in the Committee. The minister will correct me if I make false statements, but it seems to me that only the Department of Health has been published. At least I couldn't find the regulations of the Minister of Justice in a hurry. So I have to ask if this is the way the matter works, if I don't read the Board's Homepage, because it was, of course, that the points of the Regulation must have a major impact on the whole case. Now I see that the lead of the minority opinion, huh? The vice president of the welfare committee, sits here in the hall, and he may be able to correct me if this is a misreading. Besides, I'd like to ask the highest. Despite this, the health - care minister may not have a reason for this. A panorama has been allowed to see the contracts at the time, allowing the Senate to see them already that the European Union is beginning a conflict with AstraZeneca on the basis of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u60	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Really, it is, because of what. A senator specifically asks about the interaction of these two regulations, that it is totally possible to use it independently, and that it is not necessary to hang together. But because of him. A member of the Parliament also asks specifically about the fact that this was truly presented as a package for the committee, so the committee specifically presented it in its discussion, i.e. For example, the section of the committee that signed the committee opinion that the figures mentioned in the report with the bill were. It was thought that it was to strengthen the very idea that a psychiatrist could have any leeway in the suggestions that he could then make on the basis of the law to me and to the Minister of Justice after an incident. Hv. A senator also asks specifically about the agreements and releases of them, and if I know the facts correctly, the agreements have been made confidential. I hope people can signal if I'm not saying the right thing. I suppose that confidence is primarily about the price or other information, I think. But I understand that it is, however, that the agreement with AstraZeneca has already been published on the European Union web. I think there must be some evidence that at least it is safe to publish at least. the agreements to the party.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u61	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for. I don't often bring a computer up here in a pit, but I'm gonna let myself have it today. It's a pleasure to hear that it's the highest. A minister does not see a problem in publishing the relevant contracts now, given that they have become available on the European Union website. Therefore, I assume they will be published here at the General Assembly, hopefully before the end of the day. However, the points involved in the Regulation of Justice and presented as part of the package, so to speak, did not come up with these comprehensive standards for high risk areas. I'm going to allow me to read some of the regulations that have been submitted and, as I please, not been published. It turns to the corresponding accessories for arrival recipients. The point I'm making is that the law done there really excluded all the groups or people most worried about having difficulty caring for cosmosis. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ Code 1. does not apply to foreigners who live in this country, including those who live on the basis of a permanent home or another kind of residence or home estate. Code 1. does not apply to Icelandic citizens. Code 1. does not refer to foreigners who have a long - term close relationship with an Icelandic citizen or a legal person living here. Code 1. does not apply to foreigners who may present proof of vaccination or proof that Covid-19 infection is over. Code 1. nor does it apply to foreigners who come to the country because of their urgent efforts, including the following members: passengers in contact flights, health care professionals, employees who are involved in transporting goods and services, individuals who have need of international protection, individuals who have to travel for urgent reasons with their families, individuals and emissaries who come to the country by the government of the United States... [[The president calls.]] Good President. I'm about to finish, with permission: - That's how the art keeps going. It's quite extensive, and I just can't believe that this Regulation has not been published has not affected the situation as it was put before the council on Wednesday. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u62	A respectable president. As mentioned in my case, it is not my job here to give an answer to the Regulation of the Minister of Justice but to the regulations I signed and it is already published at midnight and it is due to be plagued, as was shown in my history. Either I didn't speak clearly or clearly. A senator misspoken words when I spoke of the release of contracts. I spoke of an agreement with AstraZeneca on the European Union website, and I said that I didn't think that there was any basis for publishing that contract. However, it is important to maintain the right of members of Congress to obtain that data is far richer than others.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u63	A respectable president. It was over a year ago that we as a nation were sent into a long race, some sort of super-surmarathon full of mountains and lots of rivers along the way. The worst part is that we didn't know how long this race would be, how many years we'd have to cross, or how many hills we had to climb. Sadly, some of us do not come to the finish line, and others come to the finish line. But, Mr President, I have to say, for the rest of us who have been fortunate in this epidemic and not infected, the plan that the government has introduced last week to us on decommissions is absolutely important. It's so important to know, when you're dealing with something, that the end-point is there somewhere. I think we're getting close to the last slope, but we're not on the finish line at all and that's why we need endurance. However, the reduction program is just what we need to make sure that we can rejoice in the steps we have made. It is therefore a pleasure to see how successful we are in vaccinating. After all, it is the way out of this epidemic. I'm also going to say that the methods we've used here at the screening, the transmissible transmission, and the contagion have worked very well and, of course, we'll continue to do so, except for the personal disinfectants we're all supposed to know on the outside. But I would like to ask the highest. Minister to the age of vaccination. The reduction program speaks of achieving the goal of vaccinating all over 16 years of age at one time. I don't recall much discussion about how far we were going to go down in age on vaccinations. If the highest. A minister may inform us: Is it necessary for children to be vaccinated until they are 16 years of age? Will it even be recommended to vaccinate children younger than this? [[The president calls.]] Or are we allowed to compare with any age limit other than 16 years?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u64	A respectable president. In the numbers and plans we have been taking, we have usually compared with 16 years of age and older. It gives us this number, which, of course, is always a plus/minus something, that is about 280,000 people offered to be vaccinated. It's always been the standard we've had. It is partly based on the Marketing Authorisation of the vaccines, i.e. for how young people are allowed to use these materials. Research for children and young people is now being conducted for vaccines, and I hear pediatrics and pediatrics refer to them as being more likely than less likely that the vaccine will be offered to children at least The older ones in a group of children, but so far, we cannot make any plans, considering that we don't have enough data. Research is ongoing, and we do not know exactly how it works. But that makes it possible that even though we are talking about delinquency here in the middle of the summer - like a beard. We still need to be on our personal anti-infective control, keeping track of groups and distances and all that we really know so well - it may still be that we are going to take our youngest people's vaccination sessions, possibly during the fall. We have been able to buy enough vaccines to handle such projects if that is the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u65	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of these answers. I want it to be directed to the highest. Minister and its subordinates, i.e. A surgeon and a psychiatrist, at some point, must start a discussion about children and vaccines. Of course, the person being present will accept vaccination when offered, but I have to admit that as a mother it is a very difficult step to decide whether to tell my children to receive a vaccine that we know has only been studied for a short time, and we cannot know what the long - term effects are. At the beginning of this epidemic, before we saw the British species lying on children, I had strong hopes that a vaccine would only have to be given to adults and preferably over a certain age. Then I'd like to direct that question to the highest level. Minister, and ask again on personal terms as a mother where I have a daughter in her early 20's who has accepted the first injection from AstraZeneca: Is it wise for young girls to take second vaccination from AstraZeneca or to have plans for other vaccines for that group?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u66	A respectable president. I know this question burns on many people, but it can be said that it helps us answer the question that it is assumed that three months will pass between previous and subsequent vaccinations with AstraZenea. Before the discussion began, the possibility that the vaccine might be ineligible for younger groups, and particularly for younger women, a small number of healthcare professionals, and particularly young women who received this vaccine, were included. I am aware that in some parts of the world, we are wondering if there will be a second dose from another manufacturer. There has been an opinion and discussion in the countries around us to develop in Britain. We have not yet come to the conclusion of that matter, believing that we still have the means to do so. But I'm aware that this question is addressed by the surgeon general and the psychiatrist. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u67	Mr. President. To date, members of Parliament have used metaphors such as the light at the end of the tunnel, but people are now using the word endpoint, as is the case. paritaprevir The Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir's Daughter. Of course, it has been a difficult time, and we look forward to freedom, but it is also important that we do not give up our expectations and that our governments have great responsibility. Recently, the government as if nothing was more obvious than that all the limits should be removed within the country of July 1, across the feelings that Dr. Þórólfur has. Let us take a closer look. Granted, the public will have a gentle, smiling attitude toward the summer, and it is good to raise expectations and increase their joy around the summer day. Of course, the companies, especially those who have been in paralysis, will take it to heart too. They start their engines, adjust their guitars, open their windows, and wet their sheets and prepare to receive all the people. But it's that simple, topv. Minister? Are these expectations anything that the government can really live up to? There are reports of an increase in social transmission, and the virus spreads throughout the world and is increasingly failing on youths and children who will not be vaccinated during the summer. So the question is: How rapidly does the government plan to reevaluate his plans so that excessive expectations can, of course, bring much frustration and also increase cost and financial loss to governments that are beyond the reach of it?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u68	A respectable president. Whatever it is. A senator here touches on the very part of this line dance we are in and has been in this year of the second, i.e. attempting to give as much warning as we can, but at the same time, be heartless and realistic about the fact that the epidemic will be assessed by a psychiatrist at any given time. He's been doing it all along, and he'll do it while we're in this wrestling situation. All dates may vary with regard to the course of vaccination and the development of the pandemic, both within the country and outside, and especially on the border. That's how it's gonna be. It is clear, however, that once we have the position that one fourth of the nation has at least one quarter of its population. receiving a previous injection, and at the beginning of May it will be 35%, the latter part of May it will be half of the population, and the second part of June it will be 75% of the population that have at least 75% of the population. given a previous injection, of course, will affect our plans in other ways, leaving these vaccination plans. It is my opinion that it is responsible and important for the government to show these cards, of course, with all the warnings I have listed here. I think society has become absolutely seared in taking what we are thinking about in the future with them. We have become seared in the prospect of a brief notice of the epidemic. [[The president calls.]] It is true today that there is a flash of light, but it is my conviction that it is better than talking about this combination of vaccinations and disinfectants within the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u69	President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I would have thought much better that we just talked about the second injection. Sometimes talking about the first injection and the second injection is small, as is the case in terms of economic issues when mixing the bridge with the net, where there is a basis for this. But I guess the highest. A minister would agree that this statement at the press conference was quite clear. They just said, "This is the way it's gonna be on July 1st. Þórólfur said that after 60% of vaccination was completed, the recovery could begin. This is in line with what is now taking place in the Norwegian media, where people expect that even if all over 16 years of age have been vaccinated in that country, there will still have to be disease prevention and measures, quite burdensome, perhaps all the next winter. Then we know that as time passes, new variations may develop, especially since we in Western lands have not been able to help better the poorer countries, and they may be infected, and they may have an effect, and we may need to be vaccinated for the third time. That's what we all know. Now I'd like to share my optimism. Minister and I fully support it in the actions we are facing. But I'm asking again if it wasn't a bit foolish to claim so overwhelmingly at the magazine meeting in Darp about July 1st. I know being in such a beautiful house can inspire courage, and you can let things out that you didn't do otherwise. But is this not dangerous?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u70	A respectable president. We know that there is considerable protection from a previous injection. It would not be consistent with a moderate degree of ignoring this protection, although it is certainly a protection of the full - time series. This is to create a premise for a person to receive a full vaccination course. A lot of communities around us, I mention to form Britain, and I also mention some of the northern countries, have been publishing translation programs based on previous injections. Of course, it's just with all the warnings I mentioned earlier. Thank you. A senator for wanting to be optimistic with me. I think it's important to be, of course, if it is based primarily on practical wisdom. I have not been able to talk about it here at the General Assembly and elsewhere that there may be cases that are not visible on radar at this time, to form mutants and complex conditions of various kinds. For filming, live anyway. The welfare committee so much about the matter from the council last week that a psychiatrist could take special note of what I think is very important. But I think, a respectable president, it's realistic and responsible to say that when a relative is reached in the previous syringe in the community, it remains in the hands of decommissionation in the country, and we've begun to defuse it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u71	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Ministers for arriving here for the council one more trip and exercising little exercise along the way by standing twenty-two times out of a chair and settling down to have a word with members of Congress. This is important for the council and important, I think, the whole community is very important. Now that we see better times, both earth and country, and also health, and the Covid epidemic, it is important to look to what happens next, how we have structured plans, how we are going to get our community back into action, and maybe especially how we look at social factors, in terms of health and health. It is important for me to know that the community is involved in this strategy, and particularly members of such groups as the labor movement, employers' unions, rural groups, some transport services, and perhaps not least the patient organisations and groups of individuals who have become ill in Covid and who are dealing with long-term consequences. I'd like to hear at the highest. A minister on the way she sees that governments will control that vision, as far as government controls control the vision of the future, or in what way governments can foresee a positive way to lead society, not only through the epidemic, but also through it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u72	A respectable president. I think that when we look back, when we get there in a few years and we look back at what happened in the winter 20200/2021, and actually from February 2020, we may have handled it in few sentences; that we have dealt well with the epidemic. It's been going well, we've been turning pies together, and we've been doing well for shots, etc. Then there is the long story and the big story that becomes a real challenge both to say and go through, and that is how we work through the economic and social consequences of the epidemic's direct and indirect epidemic. Of course, the number of measures taken during the pandemic is large. We know the close strength, maintenance strength and specific measures in mental health, etc. .............. A senator knows well. We are talking about specific tasks that are designed to increase the number of jobs. It's been going well. We're talking about a significant injection into development, research and innovation. All are the seeds that sprout and bear fruit in a slightly distant future, at least Some of those projects. But I think it all matters that the restoration after this dip will be so much that it will teach, that it will indicate that we want the community to be restored to action based on the basic vision that we need to ensure the social equation and prevent society from being restored so that people will have lasting problems. [[The president calls.]] And then, first of all, I want to give you a long - term lack of work, something that we need to resist with all our means. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u73	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. It's important that we work together to show off the cards, to tell us how we can imagine the community being by Covid. I'd like to come in on the second round just a few vaccinations and the possibility that is becoming more and more of a discussion in the countries around us, i.e. The possibility of a third vaccination, and even, as some are discussed, that we could look forward to reviewing repeated vaccinations over the next few years and years. That's the Ministry. A minister begins to examine it, perhaps even considering health and health costs and such? It's a little important. In this context, there is also the question. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir came in here on vaccinees of individuals less than 16 years of age and at what time it might be. So perhaps finally, to what I have mentioned repeatedly here in a talk chair, i.e. The potential for this and the time of the minister to predict that more materials are being used for vaccinations and whether they still fully hang on to the European Medicines Agency, whether or not we can take certain steps to obtain such materials.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u74	A respectable president. The questions we had. A senator is all in the discussion in one way or another, and we at the Ministry of Health are naturally keeping track of how all of them progress. These questions have been partially discussed in the working group with the vaccine, with regard to new waves, new variations, third injection, and children, all that has been discussed in the discussion. The European Union is considering purchases from producers into the future and when things begin to get clearer, we need to take a position on how we deal with them. Of course, studies with pharmaceutical manufacturers regarding these factors are large in both the children and the third injection. We must, in effect, place our full trust in the best people in that subject, since knowledge will come into existence as time goes on. We also receive new materials from the European Convention and some of them - e.g. comes some CureVac, reminds me, at the end of the second quarter and possibly something in the third quarter of the year. More species have been infested like Novavax. All of this helps us to have a broader ◯front. We will see how much strength it is already in having a vaccine from more than one and more than two vaccine manufacturers. If one subject is to be waited on for any reason, then, etc., as well as the future of knowledge. We see that one subject is more suitable for older ones when others are more suitable for younger ones. So we watch it and we're at the table here, right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u75	President. This is an amazing discussion. I don't really know how to get it. Ministers or some member statesmen can say some things here in a very ignominious manner. To show off the cards, you say. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson. We've been asking for a year to show the cards, since the government's financial programme was delayed, asked for time, where government policy on how to get out of Covid is right. When she finally arrived six months later, there was no information, nothing. Hv. paritaprevir Bryndís, the daughter of Haraldsdóttir, says that we have been sent to a long run a year ago. A brief outbreak of hope was then. A long epidemic was never expected. There was no stage for an epidemic. We're seeing this repeatedly in every court, including the Ministry of State. A health minister, where there is a need to extract information through a shuffle and when it succeeds, is not satisfied. The confidence in the contracts is discussed here, which is now not supposed to be possible because there were some merits. How easy to publish without prices and get information on the number of doses to come in the near future? Only last week will tell us that all limits to the 1st of July should be removed because the vaccination will have been completed at least 16 years of age and older. once. Why are we getting that information first in April? Why was it not clear before New Year's when contracts were completed? I don't understand why it's so hard to show off the cards. Now over a year later, we still don't know why we should put down all the limits when we have all 16 years of age and older vaccinated. [[The president calls.]] Why not 50 years of age, as mentioned in the opening program in Denmark, or 40 years of age or 30 years of age? Why 16?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u76	A respectable president. I'm sorry about what. A senator is not happy about all of this because I think we can just be relatively happy with the results. Of course, that is the most important thing when we consider the position at any point, whether now or at any other point in the epidemic, that we have been successful. The results, of course, are the main factors in how they are made. Hv. A senator knows exactly that we couldn't say anything about delivery in January because we didn't have that information in our hands. It was simply that way. Hv. A senator was here at the council and is aware of the discussion. I'm going to talk about it now that there should have been something to say in January about what we know in April, it's natural to just get out of thin air. Nothing will help this discussion. And to argue that all information had to be pulled out by a thread - I'm dismissing it because it's not true. We've applied ourselves to this epidemic, and it's looked into in other countries, and we're asked how we've reached it, to do our best to keep information as wide as possible and open as possible through this epidemic, with a lot of information on the vaccine contracts, their progress, their delivery. Although there have been some changes in drop-down plans, we've been able to check them out as soon as we know what they look like. My position is clear: I think it's very important to the community that information is available as far as possible. Some may criticize that this results in uncertainty and chaos because information changes between periods of time. [[The president calls.]] But we receive commendation from international institutions on how we have maintained these issues, and the results speak for themselves. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u77	A respectable president. In his transportation address, a minister said that the community has become seared in taking everything on notice, and that is where I bring it. Although the dates are inaccurate, missing accurate date on vaccine delivery and the like, the basis is still something that can be related. When given at least 16 years of age or older, all subjects will be given the vaccine. Once then, we stop all the limits. We don't know a date, but that's the reference we're going to have. Was that just possible for the first time in the last week? Couldn't have been said that, e.g. Before New Year's Eve? That's the information we've been trying to ask for. How is the organization about us getting out of this epidemic? And if we take the economic consequences of this epidemic, am I happy about it? No, that's a lot of unemployment. Of course, we do not like the results there, but we do not. Minister, it's for the government and the secretary of finance to have that headache. I can honestly say that despite the small Catholics, we have been very successful in preventing disease, especially because of the high level of attention that has been provided by people who have applied the guidance. It's been very difficult to get information about the exact way in which you are going to go to bed. I was, for example. during the last week. According to the website covid.is, I would have been actually separated from those in my home, but I received instructions from the disease - control team that everyone in my household should be under siege. That was misleading information. This is the problem we've been trying to draw out, to keep things straight, but they haven't been. Now we have an enormously blurred situation about seeing the cards, what it's going to be before elections, especially economics. Solutions such as e.g. We're running out of jobs in six months, they're elections, and then the bottom is out of that barrel, and we don't know what happens next. [[The president calls.]] All these plans are missing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u78	A respectable president. One year ago, a health - safety doctor has said that all the restrictions in the country could be removed when herd resistance was reached. Then we didn't, more distinguished President, know we'd be bringing a vaccine at this point. He kept us completely informed of this factor. Then we've been talking about it here all winter, in the winter of 2020 to 2021, each of these criteria is legible. What point is that? Is it 60%, 80%, 75%, what is it? Well, maybe. A senator's answer?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u79	It's the government that's supposed to answer...
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u80	Is it the government that should answer that question? This is the research material of the world's manufacturers and communities today when we are able to develop herd resistance. We can have standards based on knowledge that we now have. This year we knew that there was considerable protection on the first injection. We knew this year. So the information we're getting - I understand why. A senator is impatient. The nations of the world are impatient about Covid-19. However, I pray for a measure of reasonableness in the discussion when information and knowledge are becoming as difficult as that none of us allow themselves to stand here as we have all the answers because they are not here. It is for all of us, for information and review, to discuss entirely unprecedented situations. It's safe to say. It is the pandemic of Covid-19, mankind's greatest and most complex subject since World War II. It's just that way. The parameters are intense. The results are dramatic because science has shown that we can handle these things if we return together. But feeling impatient that not all the answers are here in April 2021 does not make me feel that I understand the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u81	A respectable president. Covid is an endless source of discussion here. That's how we get to the country together. It is vital that we keep up the pace of this struggle that we all hope to overcome. A year ago, the uncertainty of uncertainty was a normal feeling, anxiety, and insecurity. We do not give in to the position we are in now that we have already had one third of the population. It was very uncertain whether a vaccine would be found and found so quickly. Our vaccination plans are good in comparison with other countries, so we are on the right track. This time has actually been the annual celebration of scientists, not just the battle against this virus, but the knowledge and experience that will be used against other diseases, the development of vaccines, the use of preventative shieldings, and other vital factors that are important in the struggles that this is and will bring forward to us. This world has grown many times, but we are in the midst of a storm. There are currently high priority groups of vaccinees, but I can't find in the priorities of people with mental illness, e.g. poor health, which has been treated. I'd like to ask the highest question. Healthcare Minister: Was it discussed when the priority groups were set up in this Regulation? Did something come up for discussion and is there any discussion that this group in a more sensitive position, some who have even shut themselves off, have not contacted their own people, or just generally gone to the store, move up, or are going into this list?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u82	A respectable president. We have in cooperation, me and a DC, provided a premeditated schedule for the introduction of vaccinations. As we all know, because even now some of us in the hall are receiving a vaccination, these groups are winding up, and we are in the seventh group or so. The cohorts with chronic medical conditions are those currently vaccinated and people aged 60 to 170 years. All the groups that had it. A senator would no doubt mention part of people who either have underlying diseases or who are in a difficult social position. Especially is it true that people who are in a difficult social or economic situation because of the possibility of chronic health problems, which are therefore normal for them to go further in this order. The main objective of the order is always to protect those who are most in danger. It's always the thought. That is why we start with all the older ones, so we try to protect the health care professionals so that health institutions are as safe as ever. Then we take to heart the information and the information available on which groups are the most vulnerable to Covid-19 and are most likely to be exposed and severely ill. That is why the order is listed here. But the group who had it. A senator is not defined as one in priority.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u83	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. Like what? A senator tells us that we will all be vaccinated in June at least the first injection, and then we will be able to jump to the Field and celebrate the festival. At least that would be a reason for doing so. Then I'd like to come into this country only if it isn't enough for all of us here. To hold this down on a global scale, the whole world, all of those living on this earth, must be kept safe. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if she knows how this wind works when it comes to vaccinating groups in less advanced countries of the world. There was a story the other day that said there was a very low percentage, e.g. correspondent in Africa I ask you, what is our role as a nation? Although we are so tiny, we can have a powerful influence. What is our responsibility for these groups to be vaccinated, and what ways have they gone? We're in cooperation with the European Union in the field of vaccinations. Are we following them on this or on plan? Can we do anything better to allow these groups in smaller countries to be quickly and well vaccinated?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u84	A respectable president. Indeed, it is true. A senator says, though most of the time, when we're talking about these matters, we're perhaps the most occupied with talking about ourselves and our community here, it's the whole human task of dealing with Covid-19. We are not finished until we are all finished with the worldwide epidemic. But we are in a particular partnership with the United Nations, which is taught by COVAAX. We've put 500 million in that pot and 100,000 doses. It is then estimated that we will give all doses that are higher than when we have completed the vaccinations here, so there is a chance that these doses will be used elsewhere. So we support all the initiatives that are taking place, whether in the United Nations, the European Union, or our own initiative, because this is very important. But as we can see, it is not only about vaccines but also about other health materials and tools to care for those who are ill. We can best see this from the newscasts from India that have come to us these past few days. The widespread illness in that area and the strife of society are a real challenge for society to deal with, to care for those who are ill, because the interior is sick, because the health sufferers are weak. Signing the check and sending a vaccine is not enough. [[The president calls.]] We also need to look for ways to support other kingdoms in another way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u85	Mr. President. I think it's safe to say that during this epidemic, while it continues to rage to a certain extent, the nation was standing like a rock behind the disease officials and doing a very good job. Now that we've begun to see the sun, the sun shines here in the East, and people are gathering there. I'd love to share it with the highest. Ministers of Optimism that we have begun to anticipate the end of this situation. Nevertheless, all of us are impatient, and somehow we want to know what lies ahead. At a press conference last week in Hörpe, I think I'm right, was a corneal introduction, and included a corneal introduction. The clear which bore the title In the spring. While people have often referred to it as a government decomposition plan, it is still extremely small. Maybe I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if there's more to the interpretation and translocation of the extraction plan. Then I'm not asking for any particular date, because this I know is a very difficult subject, but there are certain criteria that can be set for how many have been vaccinated, at any age, etc., and if the results are achieved, this and the measures will be lifted. Is working on something like that, and if it is, it could be the best. A minister informs us when we might expect this?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u86	President. I think I'll just tell you that I'll probably take a skirmish in the government tomorrow, where we'll be doing exactly what the senator talks about, listing these specific criteria where we can say we've crossed the first step which is 25% contact with the first shot, which led us to the first step that was taken now in April and then a guard into the summer where we may be in 35%, 50%, 75%, and in what manner we can expect to get off on with it. I expect to report this kind of plan right after a government meeting tomorrow or that it's going out on a press release. But it has been my thought, and I think it would be good because in some parts of the countries around us, to form in Finland, to put the plan on government consultations. There are so many views, from employment, culture, public, schools, etc, that come in on such a plan, so I think it would be good to open up the discussion, since it's not really a rule of Regulation or anything like this, rather a plan of society. But I think and I share it with a what. A senator that we all have materials to talk more clearly about what the guard is, how they look, and what to expect.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u87	Mr. President. I'd like to welcome this wonderful answer from a minister, and I'm very excited to see what that plan looks like. I think it's very important even if, as I mentioned earlier, it's not dated, if we know the criteria. Especially do I rejoice that this is happening, and I might say, " Though it had been before. ' But I'm not gonna say it, so let's just celebrate if the plan is to come and I'm looking forward to seeing it. As this discussion has repeatedly shown, it is also very important not to give too much hope that will be difficult to live up to. Hence, it may be wise to be more rigid and able to rather relax. [[The president calls.]] There was no question here, but I'm glad to see that the plan is to come out.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u88	A respectable president. Hv. A senator said this, and he didn't say that he thought it could've come sooner, and I agree with him. I think it'd always be better. It's always this conflict to not build too much expectations, to live up to what you're saying, but I think we now have exactly all the materials that are needed to speak clearly about this step. I think we should, and I think it's also very important to have the community discussion that opens up about it because we need to be able to plan our lives, not just our professional life, but whether we can hold the big parties we've been waiting for far too long.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u89	A respectable president. I got the good news from last night's text messages that I was on the list of Wednesdays for a shot and I get AstraZeneca. I couldn't care less, I'm just glad to get into a shot. But then I started checking it out, and it turns out that after the first injection, I have three months to get the second injection, which is, like, 12 weeks. It won't be until it's time for shopping weekend. I'm wondering when the level of activity is going to be that I don't have to worry about getting it. Some say two weeks, three weeks. But then why are there 12 weeks between them? That's a question. What I may be more concerned about is that groups that are for some reason very anxious about getting the wrong vaccine, not being allowed to choose the right vaccine. I sometimes meet these people, and they're kind of terrified. Can we allow people to enter a syringe or reject a syringe if they are afraid of getting the vaccine type? I don't think it's a big group. I'm asking the highest. Minister if people can't be allowed, through health care, or only for health care - and at least examine them. how large this group is to put their arms around him because there are people with anxiety, anxiety, anxiety disorder, mental illness. I'm sure it's not a big group. It must be moderate in this context to that group, so that they will not be able to come into a syringe even if it takes a week or a half months for people to receive an injection, but that they can be present and receive whatever material they can happily receive.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u90	A respectable president. There are manufacturer's instructions for having three months apart, and I'm not going to try to explain them here. It is certainly a protection against serious illness and serious infection, but it is not a guarantee of failure to infect or infect the person. We know that. There's no such thing as 100% defense. But we know that vaccination is primarily a public health procedure, primarily a procedure involving the community as a whole. Although each one is first protected, we have come to a place where, when we have a particular group or ratio, that is, of course, that it is possible to put the whole community under cover, and that, of course, is the goal. Hv. In particular, a senator asks when the discussion begins to revolve around certain types of vaccines. It's an amazing subject of interest over a head. Imagine if we were always talking about producers when we bought a prescription or what it is, saying, "I'm not going to buy this person that makes paracetamol, but from the other person, because I trust that company better, etc. Now we're all experts in this, and the discussion is just the way it is. However, for groups, a disease - control doctor makes a decision, and there was an enormously important work to identify contraindications for AstraZeneca and what groups were under it. Of course, there is a great responsibility in our health - care providers as well as in the fact that all information can be transmitted to those in question. But we trust the executives, we trust those who are handling vaccinations. These are actually the geniuses of the day, these people who organize and fill the Saturday Palace and other major places of people who go to vaccinees, and they do amazing things.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u91	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A health minister for the answers. But I just want to point her out, for example. In relation to allergy medication, I need to take antiallergics and it's not whatever allergy medication I take, because I know that one thing works and one thing doesn't even work and it even doesn't work well for me, so there's my choice. I didn't get the answer to my question about choosing a vaccine, but I know this can be the feeling. We know that medication has been used to work, depending on how much you believe it works. I think it's much better to let people believe that a drug works than to say to them: "You don't get to choose, and put it in the back of the row, and even I don't know what happens because we know we don't reason with those who have much anxiety or other concerns. We should let them choose. It must be fair, at least testing how large this group is and whether it cannot be taken into account.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u92	A respectable president. There was someone pointing out to me for fun that I must stand up every time we take this discussion here. I think it's the fifth or sixth time this discussion takes place. I trust each other. paritaprevir The Guðguundur of Ingi Kristinsson to always discuss the right to choose a vaccine, since we also do so regularly, discussing it. And my answers are always the same, they are always that it must be the evaluation of the experts who feel that vaccines are suitable for each group. And, of course, it's a DC doctor who does, and that's how it's been through these vaccinations, and that's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u93	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Ministers for the answers she has given today and before this discussion. Sin is subtle, and a title for Jón Cadet's life story was kadettur. The Covid virus can be proved to be subtle and smooth. The virus comes behind us over and over and does not follow any laws or rules. Hence, there is a greater understanding of the country's need for unconventional measures to protect the people's health and interests when the law is not subtly or smooth in its fight against the virus. Last week, the government temporarily introduced action on the border. It is important that the measures were temporary, targeted, and handled in order to create situations that allowed the authorities to defuse the greatest restrictions in the country, despite the widespread spread of the pandemic abroad. As a result, the General Parliament approved a bill for changes in existing disease prevention laws, which includes the basis for the action being proclaimed. At the same time, the government's purpose for immunization was presented and inspired most hopes. Here we can expect a reduction of all restrictions within the country when most adults have received the previous dose of the vaccine. A respectable president. What does the future look like? This week, some 25,000 people will be vaccinated to make a new assessment of vaccinations for one week. Of these, large numbers are at risk for the virus and are greatly relieved of having arrived in that group. If we persist in our fight against the virus, we will eventually conquer and open up the land and the career that will bring us the best standard of living. I ask the minister, How do we reach the people's solidarity at the end of the race and get them to believe in the future?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u94	A respectable president. There are little questions here at the end of this fine discussion. What we've enjoyed in Icelandic society through this epidemic is, in fact, a unique solidarity. It's so much solidarity that you notice it. Perhaps it reflects in some way what kind of association we are. We are relatively few, we are enlightened, we are educated, we are relatively well-deserved for economic purposes, with the average, but most important, we have received very good guidance from our fine trieyes, who have endeavored to get information to the general population. As a member of the political bitch, we have decided to make the wrestling with the epidemic, not about political cones, but about doing what is right. If we're lucky to keep that beat to the end, I hope we can look over this round, i.e. The struggle with the epidemic, and the pride of having done it well, that we have done it well as a community, that we have done it well as an informed society and a society with great knowledge and also a community with good fortune to avoid becoming a political target. So I think if we continue to do that rhythm, we'll be fine. We see that there are still more than 90% of those who believe in what the authorities are doing, and we still see that trust in the government, and especially in the medical system, is increasing. So I think this government can at least... When it comes to elections, pride was taken away.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u95	A respectable president. I'll agree with the highest. Minister, it's important to have solidarity. I've worked hard to cooperate with the trinkets and the Minister on these matters. Of course, there are some things that have been possible with strong opinions, but I think the situation will ultimately triumph in this as a second. I think we'll see that once they've been vaccinated, tourists will be filling up the hotels and buses and tourist attractions and entertainment companies and professional life. But I'd like to ask the Minister one question that may not have occurred today, I'm not quite prepared, there are many. Has the minister been able to take time to examine the long - term effects of the virus's stress on health care professionals?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u96	A respectable president. There are a number of factors that need to be considered and considered in this epidemic, especially as far as possible. A member of this convention is especially concerned with the pressures of our health care and the pressures of our health care providers. There's a lot of work to do in the dark, turn pies together, deny that summer 2020 vacations, which I think an amazing number of people have done, some of which are working in more than one and more than two places. This needs to be done very well. Similarly, health - care agencies and personnel have been greatly grateful and greatly appreciated and merited applause on the back that all of us are to be careful to maintain. I mentioned the above - mentioned clinics holding samples and vaccinations, but I also mention Land hospitals with their good walking department and with all the health institutions in the country that have been doing this very well. We need to hold on to it, but we also need to be careful about what it feels like when it comes to the epidemic.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u97	A respectable president. I present the Commission's opinion on the proposals of the Western National Council from their annual meeting in 2020. I'm going to allow myself to read because it's very short. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by the Directors of the S. Brjánsson, president of Iceland's Western Council, Bylgja of the Árnadóttir, secretary of the Iceland Department, and Sigurður Ólafsson, director of the Western National Council. The proposal challenges the government to carry out the three resolutions of the Western Council adopted at the annual meeting of the Council on November 6, 2020. They are of increasing cooperation with the Western co-work ministers of the northern countries, with increased cooperation between the Western Ministers, who are in charge of the northern issues and support of the increasedpression of the Faeroe Islands and Greenlands, with the World Health Organization. An essay with the proposal includes a series of articles. to the lack of agreement between a Western associate minister on the conclusions of the Western Council and its implementation. Hence, it is called upon to conclude with the Western Council No. 1/2020, the international colleagues in Iceland, Greenland, and the Faeroe Islands are working together to negotiate a annual meeting. In conclusion of the Western Council No. 2/2020 is called after a formal Western partnership in northern languages. The Ministers of Iceland, Greenland, and the Faeroe Islands are expected to meet each year on the progress of Western interests in the north and give the Western Council a joint report on the Western policy of the Northern states and the Arctic Council. In conclusion of the Western Council No. 3/2020 is the government of Iceland and the National Governments of the Faeroe Islands and Greenland are encouraged to support the possible addition of Greenland and the movers to the World Health Organization, WHO. Countries that do not have complete independence and the management of foreign affairs may have an increased share in the Agency, but the application needs to be passed on by the state of the countries. In the treatment of the case, it was stated that by the declarations of the minister of the State of Denmark in 2020, the Danish government is supporting the declared will of the movers to gain an additional share in the Agency's work. The Commission reiterates that in the conclusion, the Parliament's support for national administrations of the Faeroe Islands and Greenland authorities is not an attempt to influence government decisionmaking or to promote a government - service system in these matters. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted. Fur Logi Einarsson and Þorgerður K. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter were absent at the hearing. Bryndís Haraldsdóttir was away from the case, but he signed this opinion under a warrant at 4 mg. 18th par. Orders of staff members of the Generals. Olga Margrét Cilia, an officer of Pirata's hearing, declared support for that opinion. Under the direction of the Director of Foreign Affairs, Sigríður Á. Andersen, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, Brístís Haraldsdóttir, Ísleifsson Isafjölsson, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gönsótir, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson and Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynlfótir. A respectable president. This is no longer the case, but I'd like to say that this is the first time that the Western Council has proposed one synonym with the resolutions adopted at a annual meeting. We know over the years that here there has been a plagion proposal for each subject. In fact, this is the only worldwide work we have that has this direct connection with the council by coming here to the Senate resolutions of the annual meeting and to be paid off in the Senate Hall. This is one of the subjects that have been discussed when we have been considering the worldwide work and its format. I think it's been a great option and has strengthened this global cohesion of the Western Council. I believe it is an important international organization, although there are little in the sense that there are only three countries, but there are six members from each country. This too has called for annual meetings to be requested by the Ministry of Justice for the implementation of the conclusions. This report has been provided for the annual meeting, and you can read about how the decrees have been carried out in each country. I have often found it very informative and good reading, as well as follow-up to the Commission, how it will carry out the conclusions that have been approved here. However, there has been a mistake, as unfortunately it would be appropriate for Congress to conclude that they are not being followed by the European Commission. A respectable president. With those words, I am saying that this arrangement has been a good one. On the other hand, it is new here that the conclusions of the meeting are put together in one synopsis and that I think that I'm fine. As I mentioned earlier, this may have been the best conclusion to support the addition of the Faeroes and Greenlands that we discussed considerably. Both were discussed. The Foreign Affairs Committee but also at the Western Council Department when this proposal was first proposed, mainly because it was important to us that this application was carried on by the countries itself, i.e. From the Faeroe Islands and the Greenlands, but they would not come from the Western Council, even though everyone agreed that it was probably part of the increase. This, of course, follows the example of Covid, who first saw the Faeroe Islands and then in favor of having an additional World Health Organization. I'd also like to say with regard to the Arctic, there is one conclusion that there is a greater cooperation between the Western Ministers responsible for the northern affairs. I think it'd be a great idea. Not long ago from the Summit of the Western Council, it was concluded. In fact, it was at a annual meeting held here in this hall where guests were the foreign ministers of Iceland, the Faeroe Islands, and Greenland. Following that meeting, a press conference was held and signed an agreement to increase the cooperation of the foreign minister of these countries. This caused so much trouble in the Dana Empire when Dana's minister of foreign affairs did so in a way that the agreement was actually not valid, in view of the fact that the Faeroe Islands and Greenland did not treat their foreign affairs. I know that many of our friends in the Faeroe Islands and in Greenland started a specific discussion on how these matters should be handled. Of course, we know that the struggle for independence is considerable. But this isn't Catholic, and not all members of Congress support or support their independence at least. not in the same way. But I think that when it comes to northern affairs, it will be very good to see that the Foreign Ministers have strong dealings with the group in which we have much in common. Of course, Iceland is a member of the Arctic Council, where the Western Council obtained a few years ago an audience. The Republic of Denmark is also part of the Arctic Council, of course because of Greenland. Dans have been diligent in allowing the Greenlandites and the Faeroes to participate in that work and have looked to their will in that regard. Not long ago, it was our policy in the Western Council to present some kind of Western emphasis or a northern declaration, i.e. The common northern policy of these countries. There hasn't been much walk for that work. The one here belongs to that group. Perhaps there are many things to say. Of course, there have been frequent elections and exchanges in these committees, which may be the major factor. But it can also be thought about how realistic it is, because while this tiny kingdom can unite in various things and should do so, it is a matter of interest and evaluation for each State when it comes to the vast Arctic language. Then you have to admit that you can also hear that the Greenlandites, some of them, think the Entets may be less important when it comes to dealing with northern states, since the movers are not a northern country. At any rate, the Faeroe Islands are very close to the North, and they have great interest in what happens there as the rest of us. A respectable president. I'm not gonna have this much further. As I said before, we suggest that these conclusions be accepted. It has to be encouraged that the Ministry will follow this and that the Western Council will regularly receive a report there at its annual meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u98	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The faith of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir for the transfer of the Commission's Committee of Foreign Affairs suggests that the conclusions of the Western Council will be agreed. Not much more is needed on their subject. Hv. A senator cut off the contents slightly, but the Western Council's conclusions have a special place. They are held in the Queens of the Western states, and they receive their coverage and are accepted according to the incident. It's worth anything to think of. This is the tradition created at the end of the last century, that conclusions made in the Westnoric Council were presented as church decrees at the Council. This tradition was adopted at the meetings of the two neighboring nations. The Western partnership is remarkable and stable, and the Western Council is one of the oldest northern tool we have, a formal tool. Whether this conclusion is reasonable before the council, there may be a number of reasons, and there may be conflicting opinions. I think I know there's a difference in opinion. In fact, we do not have that much backland to present our conclusions except the council. There's been effort, like a wag. A member of the council came on, to formalize cooperation on the behalf of Ministers, that they meet regularly, both foreign ministers and ministers who have a slightly slow approach. One of the conclusions that we now discuss is that they meet in a formal way, discuss the conclusions of the Western Council, take their stand, and place them in the direction they see fit to do more work, and then inform us about these matters. Of course, all of this is done to direct the government and the national governments to the approval of the council, to appoint them before the council. This is being done in another way at the Council of the Northern Country, where approval or conclusions of the Council of the Nations will not take place, as there is a backland and a supporting network all around the Northern Council. In fact, in 2003 the Western Council signed a collaborative agreement with the Iceland government and the National Governments of the Faeroe Islands and Greenland, resulting in the administration of a annual report on the state of affairs regarding the conclusions of the Council. Hv. paritaprevir In his speech, the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir came into it. It's useful. They are trying to close these conclusions and to fall into a coma. Mr. President. During the past few years, the conclusions made by the Western Council have been presented as church decrees for each of the General Assembly. This year, however, the newly invented, slightly dramatic and commercialization of today's supermarkets is taking three suggestions into one place. It encourages the government to work on the three conclusions adopted during this fall at the annual meeting. This is not the first time, but it has not been done often, last year 2000. It is similar with our neighbors in the Faeroese Islands, and it provides further information on each of the Western Council's conclusions. It can be found in the chart on the conclusion. Mr. President. This trinity document has now received a well-valided coverage by the State Department, and on behalf of the Western Council, I thank the Committee's positive coverage. I have hoped that the conclusions of the Western Council will be greatly supported here at a later vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u99	Mr. President. We will discuss this annually, the conclusions adopted by the Western Council at its annual meeting. This time, there are three, three points that matter. First of all, it is very good to promote the cooperation of the Ministers, the government level, that ministers of the Western partnership meet each year and discuss both the traditional policies or the cooperations, the occupations, and the culture, as well as the new or recent issues of importance. Of course, I'm referring to the climate that's all over the world. I'm also talking about transport issues. Sailors in this area, transports, and so forth are key factors, but not only that, but also flights. All three countries are heavily dependent on air, and there is enough to take there, e.g. flight energy exchange. Then it's a sustainable fishing industry. I'm sure I can reason that the fishing of these three countries is not necessarily sustainable in all areas and that there is enough work to do. Then I'd like to mention the state of the ocean, especially the acidification of the ocean, which is a concern and should be carefully monitored. It is possible to work through the cooperation of these three ministers and members of the council and the governments with good juxtaposition. That's why I strongly support this point. Second, foreign ministers are being asked to handle the Arctic matter in relation to the Western region. The arrival of the Faeroe Islands, as defined in the north, was not established. Senators from the 5th Parliament elected in the Faeroe Islands, and senators in Greenland, sitting at the Parliament in Copenhagen, will not come near the Council of the North Pole itself, nor will ministers who might have a place there. On the other hand, they participate in the Northern Parliamentary Conference. It is the same members of Parliament that would be considered as members who would be more divided by the Arctic work in various ways. If the cooperation of the three ministerial ministers who are dealing with the Arctic can be better than that, that would be very good. There's too enough to be taken. I already mentioned transportation, it's opening up new routes, and it's gonna matter to all these countries. I had specifically mentioned the fishing industry, and then there is another resource use that revolves around minerals, actually digging mines, i.e. Either minerals such as metals or such as oil and gas. I am eager to remind you that the mines of any species are not a sustainable resource abuse. This may be necessary and is necessary. We can only take ourselves as an example, and look at the building materials of Iceland, and we'll dig in half and whole the mountains here, and we'll have to do that in order to have material in the way and buildings, etc. Of course, these are not sustainable uses, as are other minerals and of course oil and gas, which are nonrenewable resources. It's very important to remind you. The final thing I'd like to mention about northern society is the increase in tensions we feel only in the North Atlantic and should, of course, be the subject of these three Ministers, because it has to do with most of these three countries, the Faeroe Islands, Iceland and Greenland, which form part of the so-called GUK gate, i.e. that tell the gate to the northern part of the sea that reaches from Britain to Greenland. The issues discussed are of great importance to us, cooperation, conversation, and cooperation, which are the key to success in these matters. So I'm still rooting for this point. Then there is no need to comment on the membership of the Faeroe Islands to the World Health Organization. We have, of course, been taught by Covid that national health is absolutely essential for such countries as Greenland and the Faeroe Islands and the Icelanders to carry the international cooperation on health matters themselves. So I think this point is very supportive too. I've done all three of them with one big yes. - I've finished my case, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u100	Mr. President. This bill is about environmental pollution caused by a single use container for drinking products, recycling, and return fees, traveling around 2. magazines on the 20th April issue of Awake! Most recently, though, toll or toll authorities reported comments on this matter. These statements call for a review of a 3rd cover. adjustment of the validation principle. So, this is a technical change, but it will be presented here in a very good consultation with both the local Ministry and the customs department. This comment stated that the bill involves both toll files and structural changes. Thus, when such laws take place, it is difficult for customs overseers to respond when a certain date is not clear. So it is suggested that rather than saying that the law already comes into effect, as stated in Article 6. The bill, the law is valid on May 1, 2021, after a few days. A formal adjustment proposal has arrived on my behalf, an office of Congress. The environment and transport committee, which simply reads: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. par. put it This law goes into effect on May 1, 2021. Mr. President. As a result, I have made an account of this transition between the 2nd and 3rd districts.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u101	Mr. President. I'll explain to members of the committee's program with a change in bill proposal to legalize the loan therapy of loan companies and stock companies. The bill on this subject suggests that the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council 2017/2399 for a change in Directive 2014/59, with regard to the level of insured debts in a series of legal order under unskilled measures, will be introduced into Icelandic rights. The main change in materials proposed in the bill is that in the payment of the loan management legislation and the stock markets the priorities of enterprises which fall under the scope of the law. One material adjustment is made. Twenty-fiveth. the management of loan organisations and stock companies requires the obligation of loan institutions to keep track of financial agreements to which the lender is responsible. Then the report on the authority's authority decides that other enterprises and units that fall under the law's standards will maintain such a list. However, the committee gave a tip to the Ministry that the above cases amounted to more than the prior responsibilities required in the directive. If necessary, the obligation would be unfounded with increased knowledge of the principle. So you have suggested a change to 25. The law says that due to the strict obligation of the loan institutions to keep a record under the law will be removed and the authority will instead be granted authority to demand that such a file be established, if they consider it necessary. Other changes proposed by the committee are not material but technological. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson was absent from the case. Under the heading, however, all the members of the committee, who stand here, Óli Björn the son of Kárason, Brubbur the Brynjar of Bryndís, Haraldsdóttir, Roa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryjolfótir, Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir Gónsdotir, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, Smári Mccarthy, and the Pétursson Ingi.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u102	A respectable president. I recommend here for a bill to correct the change in the law on the real estate where there are changes to the law relating to electronic communication and a wide variety of housing. The bill was written at the Department of Social Affairs, having agreed with the Organization of Business and Service and the Home Deposit Society. It is necessary to present the bill now in the light of changing circumstances in society where there is a high level of uncertainty due to the pandemic of the crown virus, which causes the Covid-19 disease. The age and meeting limits for it have directly affected the owners of multi owned houses, including ... becauseof house meetings, social interaction within your partner's home, and decision making. In addition, in view of the changing planning and the rapidly growing human activities with a variety of housing, it is necessary to provide owners with more leeway to compromise legal requirements with the aim of improving the use and simple decision making as a result of adapting their housing to the needs of the owners of a wide variety of housing. A respectable president. The bill suggests making changes in the laws on the real estate and adapting them to the progress in electronic communications that have taken place in recent decades and to the condition existing in society so that the owners of many houses will be authorized to keep electronic house meetings and to use electronic documents and e - mails in communications between governments and members of the community. The law's regulations for meeting houses were passed on to law before electronic media became as common as the case, assuming that houses are held so that members arrive at a fixed site and are present in their own person. This is not a direct authority in the law to hold an electronic house meeting or to use electronic documents and e - mails in relationships between governments and members of the community. The bill suggests that there will be changes in the multi-set laws, allowing for direct permission to keep electronic meetings and e - mails between governments and members of the community. The objective of the bill is, therefore, to provide big - property houses with more leeway and a choice as to whether houses meets an electronic or in part electronically and whether there will be an electronic relationship between members and the management of a home society. The bill also suggests that homemates in their own houses, where both apartments and facilities used for employment will be authorized to depart from the legal requirements of a special domestic release. Since the multigain law is a major policy to indiscriminate and to a large extent tailored to the needs of citizens of the multidicial houses only with apartments, it must be ensured that the law will provide sufficient flexibility to manage a variety of houses, i.e. houses with both apartments and housing for others, such as for jobs. A respectable president. As mentioned earlier, the bill was consulted with the Landlord Society and Business and Service Association. In addition, the bill was published to the public in the government's consultations and was taken into account the comments that were made when the discussion was agreed on as far as possible. I believe that if the bill is that the law will have a positive effect in difficult situations in society, where it stresses that more houses can hold house meetings. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u103	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a hearing of increased cooperation between Greenland and Iceland. The Parliament's decision is to consult with the Generals for a discussion with the Greenlandian government on a two-sided cross-collar deal, based on the proposals of the Foreign and Developmental Ministers. As a minister of foreign affairs, I have put great emphasis on the north and on dealing with other northern states. In the northern regions, increasing communication between countries and business opportunities in this immensely vulnerable area, there has been a special focus for the past year, and I have already started work to analyze these issues and Iceland's interests. A respectable president. Greenland plays a key role in the north and is also a geographic neighbor to Iceland's next neighbor. During recent years, two - side communication between countries has intensified, especially by opening Iceland's e - mail office in Nuuk in 2013 and opening a green - language e - mail office in Reykjavík in 2018. The communication between cultures, arts, and sports has been quite extensive, as has the Great Red Cross been accomplished by the French and the Red Cross. I think it's important to promote cooperation further. The countries already have a lot of common interests to care for, including In the area of fishing, air service, air traffic, travel, climate, and Arctic products As noted earlier, in April 2018, I ordered a committee on the development of increased cooperation with Greenland and Iceland in new northern regions. This year, the committee returned me a thorough report with its proposal to increase the cooperation of the countries. Under proposals of the Committee, a comprehensive analysis of the status of the two-sided national communication is, in fact, the greatest analysis ever performed on national relations. The committee set out ten suggestions for policy making on a total of 99 suggestions. At the same time, the committee stressed that Greenland and Iceland had a future framework for cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u104	It's the highest. A minister makes sure that he has a talk in the right part of the program? About Iceland's policy on northern affairs?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u105	No, it's just not that at all. That's a long road away.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u106	The president asks for it to the highest level. Minister will discuss the agenda, which is Iceland's policy in the affairs of the north.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u107	Of course, if a respectable president prays so kindly, the minister will be willing to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u108	The President is very grateful.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u109	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a synopsis of Iceland's policy in the affairs of the north. North countries have for years been among the main focus of foreign policy policy, which has to do with issues they have to deal with Iceland's interests in many ways. The current Arctic policy is based on Congress resolution No. 20/139 approved by the Council in March 2011. During the ten years, there has been a significant trend in the affairs of the region, including Based on climate change impacts. The sign of warming is not as evident as in the north, but temperature increases more than twice as fast as the average globally, including with the result of melting prey and ice ice picks. The international interest in the region has increased considerably, especially as a result of a streamlining approach and a potential for resource use. At the same time, increasing tension in the region has been maintained, mainly because of the rise in Russian military activities and also because of the growing Chinese greed. In the past two years, Iceland has played an important role in leading the Arctic Council, which is the most important member of the territory. The following month, the Council's Ministerial Conference is held here and the U.S. and Russian foreign ministers have already confirmed their involvement. At that meeting, we will return the cylinder to the Russians, who take the lead of the council until the next two years. During this breakthrough, as a decade has passed since the Council first developed its position on the north, and already at the end of our lead in the council, I thought it was time to make a decision to review Iceland's Arctic policy. So I appointed a Senate committee with representatives of all members of the council and assigned it to cover the affairs of the north from a broad angle, including Ecosystems, economics, and politicals, but especially with regard to the high safety concerns involved in the region. The committee held a total of 17 meetings and consulted a number of experts and economists. The nominees also had the option to participate in their visit to Akureyri in May last year, where there were a number of people involved in the Northland Arctic work. The Parliamentary Committee gave me its proposals in March of the past, and they are in a accompanying document with this proposal, as well as what they have been published on the board of directors. They aim to ensure Iceland's interests in a broad sense through sustainable development and peaceful cooperation. The draft proposal, along with a report, is based on proposals made by the Committee and the grounds for which it felt that a new Arctic policy should be proposed. I want to use this opportunity to thank them. Parliaments who were involved in this project very much for their well-work. According to this suggestion, a new Arctic policy should be based on 19 key factors, which include the following: that international cooperation on the issues of the region, environmental protection and response to the negative impacts of climate change, the welfare of the north, the use of economic instruments, the development of security, the search and survival, the building of knowledge and the implementation of the northern national centres. In the last two years, although the unexpected challenges caused by the Covid-19 pandemic have been successfully solved by the Council of North Pole. As far as I'm concerned, the Council would be a great success if a new Arctic policy was formed at the time that the Prehuman Times will be completed in spring at a Ministerial Conference held in Reykjavík. A respectable president. I suggest that the proposal be referred to. The Foreign Affairs Committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u110	Mr. President. We're here on a proposal for the resolution of Iceland's policy on the North Sea policy which, if it is approved, accepts and replaces the current policy of the same material adopted at the General Assembly on spring days 2011. Much water and more than seems to be good for the Arctic and international development since then and the natural development of the matter. Mr. President. In the present political and climate change landscapes, environmental and social issues are urgent. The challenges and forward - to - future challenges for society are calling for farsighted solutions, strong cooperation, regional and international. The challenges are large for the areas themselves, politics, scientists, and the educational community throughout the world, to promote cooperation in knowledge, creation, and clear thinking. All research and surveys point to a huge project. The general public, especially the younger generation, which shows its mind in action, wants that the climate and environment are taken by decisive and responsible. A loud appeal is for a new social approach and a change of values in which the sustainability and cycle economy are put first. In a small number of parts of the world, the impacts of climate change are as visible as here in the North and are already being influenced in many areas of society; gearing up glaciers, shrinking seas, and permafrost development. The temperature in the North continues to rise at least twice as fast as the average international level, like the highest. The minister came in. Thus, the UN's global objective for sustainable development is expressed in all policies and cooperation in the north, and in the three main areas, economic, social, and environmental. Many northern communities are few and remote, and many are lacking necessary wood. Yet, communities are not uniform, nor is the region of the northern world of some four million people. Many of these are well - developed and well connected, both by communication and by network. Green solutions in planning and energy, people's health, equality, education and sustainable resource resources are also a major concern to North-country society and are already important in many areas. Development is an arrow, whether it is a challenge to the environment and climate or a flash of air during military activities, north-way traffic security in the air as a uterus, all manner of resource use, and pollution control. Together, this calls for increased consciousness and a progressive approach. In this dissociative situation, a panel of members of the Parliament took over a review of Iceland's current policies on northern affairs, which was presented to a minister on March 19 last year, as we have seen. Northern nation, northern kingdom. Iceland, although there is no simple definition of this concept or phenomenon, is considered undisputably to be one of them. But according to the standards that are commonly used, the country is largely within the limit of the north, as well as the largest part of the economic law and has this special status, as well as e.g. Greenland. The image of the north has always been a peaceful region where cooperation is successful and effective, with international law and national rights being respected. However, there are many signs of a change, or at least becoming a change. The superpowers are becoming ever more interested in the region, and resources are testing and climate change create new situations, new possibilities, major challenges. Tension has become increasingly high, and the increase in the military activities of the superpowers has greatly affected and is a major solution to the nations far and wide. Mr. President. As noted in the proposals of a panel of members of the Parliament, the Arctic Council plays a very important role in the eight nations it forms and is one of the most valuable consultations and cooperation sites on the affairs of the region. However, the Arctic Council is not an international institution in that sense, and it does not establish binding rules, although legal binding agreements on common interests have actually been established. Its strength may be primarily in building bridges between science and politics. In this regard Iceland has been a zealous team, e.g. by strengthening various projects, e.g. North Sea Ringboard, which is a good result of the proposals made by members of the Parliament and proposed to further a great deal of growth. There is also a suggestion that Akureyri will be the northern Arctic centre of Iceland and that that work, that role, should be furthered. This is in accordance with Iceland's policies on northern affairs since 2010, where a report was to set up an international center on northern issues in Akureyri. Sadly, little has happened, but hopefully this new course will be a real change. If we look at our neighboring nations, then there we have been focusing on organizing north-generation jobs outside the capitals, and that is why the policy of building up the northern Arctic centre of Iceland in Akureyri is very consistent with what has been done with our neighbors. Then there's a very good basis for such a centre in Akureyri and it's clear that further construction of the north-generation work in Akureyri guarantees long-term arrival of Iceland for a conversation about the north-ways to be self-sustained. It is noted that the founding of William, son of Stephen, in Akureyri, provides a fine example of an institution that extends to the State's budget by means of a donation from competitive funds abroad. The same can be said of the North Path network in Akureyri, which has been funded in many parts of the country and abroad. Mr. President. The Arctic Council is an important site and is increasingly involved. They're interested in the project. As the attention has increased for several reasons, more nations believe that they have direct and indirect interests and want to connect the council, observe and influence. It's only good. Today, there are thirteen countries that have an audience, although far from the north, often mention themselves neighbors of the north. In addition, a third of the world's institutions and free partners share in the same involvement, and interest is increasing. The proposal to serve as a panel of 19 members is traced to the highest motion. Minister transferred us earlier. I will not deal with them here, every one of them, but I will go over the material in general, tap on the big one, and, if I may say so, run for a few things. What comes to mind quickly, of course, is the northern life. While circumstances vary, most of them include established communities with their distinct characteristics, pride, and established culture. However, there are common factors that need to be addressed, such as transportation, communication, health care, and education options. All of this is a matter of life for all people, but especially for young people in the future and the possibility that young people might choose north ways as a place for permanent living and building up. The population is one tenth of the population's population and has six indigenous organizations in the Arctic Council. Icelanders have totally supported their efforts and policy in their struggles. The above points have also emphasized the Western Council's work with special emphasis on young people's lot and the future of young people in the north. There are a number of other factors to discuss, as well as the devastating effects of global warming and acidification. All of these, however, are inclined to connect with one another. Increased Arctic traffic calls for special vigilance, traffic of freight ships are already increasing, and will further do so by launching the Northern Routes in the next decade or two, as is the increase in the number of large passenger ships in the north. The risk of pollution accidents is real and the safety of seafarers is compromised. This vast, vast, vast, vast area of equipment is lacking, but Iceland's search and rescue zones are, for example, About 1.9 million square miles [1.9 million km], more than twice as much territory as the Icelandic economic law. The situation there can indeed be challenging. Thus, it is urgent to counteract the threat of pollution, whether caused by oil spills, toxic chemicals, radioactive materials, or plastic waste. This is listed in the suggestions of the group. The use of black oil in shipping is a serious concern and must be completed quickly. The situation is frightening. Iceland's environmental protection groups have noted that between 2015 and 2020, waste disposal from Arctic shipping has increased 72% from black oil burning ships and 85% from all ships heading north. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. My time is running out. However, I would like to try to name the flight and flight systems, as well as the safety of both seafarers and those passing through the sky. There's a situation to be handled, and it's killed in the motions of the group. I would have wanted to discuss all the details a little longer, but my time is sadly over.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u111	Mr. President. There is reason to celebrate this synopsis. It's parapolitic, and it's not every day that we have it here. She's fine and progressive, as far as I'm concerned. I'm going to discuss just a few of the 19 teams that are in the Senate arrangement. I'm here for team number one. 1, which says: 1st Taking an active part in international cooperation on northern issues based on the values established in Icelandic foreign policy, including of peace, democracy, human rights and equality. This is very important because there are many international issues and small countries such as Iceland should emphasize exactly this and stick to those values. 2. To continue to support the Arctic Council and to promote it as the most important platform for consultation and cooperation in the affairs of the region. It is a means of looking to a practice that has been practiced there, which is, in fact, a procedure. they do not discuss the issues that can cause extreme tension and modern pleasures, i.e. Defense and security. So in many ways it's an example when it comes to international cooperation, and in the same way they show the negotiations and progress that have been made by the Council of North Pole, it's the Scene with a large V, so that's what I'm saying right now. Now the Russians take the lead in Iceland, and I've had the opportunity to study their emphasis for the next two years. I must say that there are very positive emphasis and, in part, unusual to the point of saying something different from that of a few years ago. I'm not going to get into that. Furthermore, by permission of the president, it says: 4. To guide sustainable development and to take into account the UN's world goals. It is very important to watch what sustainability means, three aspects of sustainability, that's nature and society and money, because when we discuss resource use in the North, it is very often said to talk about sustainable mining. It's simply wrong. You can't talk about a sustainable study operation. It can be as environmentally friendly as it can be by using such tools and making them, but being able to be sustainable is a wrong use of the wording because it will be destroyed and a construction contractor in Iceland, when you take half and whole mountains, is not a sustainable business but a necessary business and can work in a sustainable way. However, minerals in northern regions, metals, gas oils, and so forth cannot be worked in a sustainable way. It is very important to remember. Dot 5 and 7 simply work together, i.e. stressing combating climate change and responding to its negative impacts in the North, as well as the protection of the marine health, including counteracting threats from acidification and pollution at sea. The finger is placed there on a very important point, simply because it has been found that during the Covid Year, greenhouse gases emissions were not combined. The economic problem was improved by increasing production and emissions, so unfortunately it did. This is so important because it is not only a question of acidification but also a possible change in ocean currents, so it must be laid, as Iceland did in its prehumane period which ended in May, a high priority on the responsibility of the nations, the collective companies and the collective community and cooperation to inspire this ghost in the cow as possible and in the shortest of time. I'd like to remind you of the following: 9. Looking intently at the welfare of northern inhabitants, including Their ability to survive and their access to digital communications, education, and health services, to support the rights of natives and equality fully as well as their efforts to protect the culture and language of the people of the north. This is very important. But I'd like to note that the main points involved are the young people and the earlys, because the natives have a very important knowledge about how to work and live in the north, and the young people are the ones who replace us. It is of great importance that young people see a future in working and working in the north. 14th To protect the safety interests of the north on civil grounds and on the basis of national security policy, to carefully monitor the development of security in agreement with the other northern nations and our other states in NATO, to protest warfare, and to work hard to maintain peace and stability in the area. This point is clearly a compromise between the eight categories involved in reevaluating the 2011 policy. This is an acceptable point in itself. But it's very important to watch the stage, i.e. The superpowers, Russia, and the United States on the one hand, NATO with Canada, and some of the northern countries within the board, and the two non-parties of NATO, i.e. Swine and Finns, who work hard with NATO, how action and reply have been gradually done on both sides -- It is not possible to blame the way Russians are going and nor can it be blamed for what is going on, but how the interaction between these two parties is in the north; exercise, increased presence, new military bases, a new center in Norfolk in the United States that is to care for the North Atlantic, the cleaning of a larger being in Norway of the United States, or a position on the Greenland, Russia building eight, stopping nine along the Siberian way, and some very large and powerful etc. This is reality. Our role in this is to try to prevent what I call ping-pong, the ping-pong situation in defense and security, where the tension is slowly growing. In this way, China comes in with a variety of types, let's say steps to increase its impact, move north-way policy, reach out for railroads, airports, airports, or whatever it may be, get in by Chinese companies, resource uses, and so forth. I'm saying the Chinese aren't alone in this. The Australians are in this, too, and more. So it's our job to start this defense and security discussion outside the Arctic Council and beyond the Northern Parliamentary Conference, i.e. Try to get them in the direction of what I would call in English, by permission of President Pear Code 3, because Polar Code 1 exists and has a policy of conduct on sailing in the north. There was a deal. At conferences, and now at the northern Parliamentary Conference, there has been a need to find out what might be called Polar Code 2, or a policy of behavior in resource use in the north. Then we would have one code that stated the rules of conduct on the sea, or in the sea of transportation, cruise ships, and so on, another code that would have resource use for land, and the third would be rules of conduct, or a code on how to behave in these areas when it comes to military activities or building things in any way. So this is very important. Finally, I'd like to mention that it is in the 18th and 19th centuries that we need to create the Ringboard of the North Path. But it's also supposed to be promoting Akureyri as the center of Northern Affairs in Iceland. There's gonna be a very careful need analysis, and these two projects will be solved together.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u112	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the speech and the forward plagion proposal, which I consider quite important. I think it was the most accurate step in the world. Minister to reexamine our northern policy. Several things have changed in this area. This is the area on the globe that changes the most, and we see changes each year as the ice melts. As a result, in many cases there is great interest in the media and the need for us to rethink our policy, as well as for the discussion of the important category of issues that are in the north. As a member of the international community, I am aware of the wide interest in northern lands. I sometimes feel that the interest in northern affairs has even been higher among members of our country from Japan, Korea, or China than perhaps with our main neighbors. Of course, because of global warming, the dramatic change lies ahead. Therefore, it is so important that all our words and our actions on this policy depend on climate and environment. What we're talking about in the North needs to be self-sustained. There we have a fine story. We have so much to offer when it comes to such a job structure. On the other hand, we can talk about our fishing system and our experience in building a sustainable fishing regime, then our energy and other activities. A respectable president. I was privileged to be delighted to lead the group that gave the minister a report on which he was building his suggestions. So I could give a long talk about these points, but I'll try to keep it on the short side. We emphasized the fact that people live in the north, and that we are. It's us Icelanders. We live in the north, we're northern people. You see, when considering the north in the international context, this process begins to become a hot box, not just because people here are warming up but because they start to think about a defensive position. Some also fall into the trap of talking about this as an area that somehow needs to be protected and therefore cannot be caught or built up. I have often said, these are not just some polar bears, as beautiful as they are, on icebergs, but people live here. It must, I think, always be the foundation of our course, how we're going to stay in this area and make it ideal to live in the north. Therefore, all of our infrastructure and sectoral development needs to be subject to sustainable development. There's a lot of security issues, and in one of these points we're members of NATO, and that's very important to us, that's our defense policy. But we also pondered our cooperation with the North countries, which so far have been good in so many fields, believing that there is a reason to look at it in this regard. I don't know, Mr. Honorable President, whether everyone realizes the importance of the North Pole and that we sit there at the table. V.E.G. There's a meeting where we give in to the prehumanity and the Russian taking over and how important this field is to a whole and conversation between these countries. We are there like any other state at the table, and it is of great importance. I also think that in all of the contexts, it is important, and you hear it from the United States, that, really, the North Pole is the only site where there is active communication between Russia and the United States, where they come together and have a conversation. As a result, this is important. There are various points here, but I'm assuming that the matter will go over with us at the Foreign Affairs Committee, and we will continue to discuss this. What I find most interesting for myself, and the greatest opportunity, so to speak, is that of developing intelligence and knowledge. It is interesting to have had the opportunity to get to know all the wonderful people who work in the Arctic language every day. Then I'm not only talking about scientists but also about people who are involved in sharing information, test results, and other topics and keeping them in mind. We have reached a solid foundation in being the location that is discussed when speaking of northern languages. Then I refer to the Ringboard of the North, which our former president has established and has managed to create a vast, important platform. That's where I think we have a chance to make ourselves more stable. We need to make sure that the event The Ringboard of the North, which can be developed further, remains in Iceland. There are opportunities, therefore, to bring together people in the field of science, research, innovation, and employment, the third sector, all kinds of community organizations that deal with the situation, and the politics. This is a unique scene, and it is important to be sure that it remains. As noted in a talk earlier, Akureyri is the center of the north, it has been. The University of Akureyri has done an extremely successful job with her study, and we have offices for work under the Arctic Council in Akureyri. The structure of Akureyri has been high, and it is important that it continues, and this important place is in Akureyri. To say, I also feel that it is very important that things are not handled in a way that includes everything that has to do with the northern part of Akureyri. The metal party is just so much bigger than that, so it is important that other universities, other research institutions, and members of this network are dealing with Arctics, since they all associate with us in so many ways. A respectable president. I look forward to having the assignment to discuss the subject in question. A foreign press committee and would like to emphasize the importance of using our position as Arctic states and opportunities for environmental innovations and research related to green industry, green innovations, whether we hear a talk about Carbix, that is going to discard carbon dioxide, or whatever it is related to this situation. We see that other measures made by the government fall exactly the same way: we are encouraging innovation, we are raising refunds for research and development, and we have special incentives for green investments. A respectable president. This is what will create our future, and there is truly the opportunity. I'd like to encourage all of us in this field.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u113	Mr. President. We're here to address a proposal for a resolution on Iceland's policy on North Sea affairs. I'm one of the members of the council. This is the same ide as we were working in a new energy policy for Iceland, a high-end parapolitic work in the group, and a good discussion of the shape of policy we are now discussing, and the foreign and development cohesion ministers offer as a Congress resolution proposal. This is often the case, and it is a very important subject. The point has been entered, so I'm going to talk more about what has been less discussed, such as the satellite account. It seems to me that no one has properly introduced the discussion, and we have few minutes, so maybe it's time to mention it. We'll discuss 19 points in this direction. One of the points turns to a satellite reference and its importance. We've discussed it here in the Senate Hall for the past few years with increasing emphasis on a case that has to do with satellite guidance. It is often referred to as the EGOS system run by the European Space Institute, followed by the United States as the WAS. It's a question of how we'll see this in the future, whether there could be an overlap over the Atlantic Ocean, and so over Iceland, and perhaps Greenland, with these two systems that could extend both across this region, the North Atlantic and Greenland. This is of utmost importance, both by means of a flight guide and by ship traffic. So it's a big, important case. It's a very big case for Iceland, but it's a huge case for Greenland. Greenland is twenty-one times bigger than Iceland, 2.2 million km2. Greenlanders rely heavily on the flight as the only real national transportation, whether used by regular aircraft or helicopters. Using such a satellite route creates a much greater potential for flight and migration to land far and wide throughout Greenland, and this is also important for public flight and then for search and survival. This actually means that you can fly a satellite guide down to a valley and a feather where equipment cannot be placed badly, i.e. Standard flight equipment, on the ground below, except for massive costs. So there's an enormous potential for Greenland, and there's a lot of potential in Iceland. We're seeing at the eastern part of Iceland the changes in the air transport that are turning towards the satellite route, including below the minimum airports on the eastern side of the country. We've begun to see this in the armed forces and in Húsavík, and we're working on these matters at Cape and Egls. And we're starting to see some good improvements in these points related to Akureyri. So it is a common interest that is also being adopted in the Western Council and beyond, so over the past few years, the interest in these matters has increased greatly. It is right to assume that we will discuss this in one of our proposals, in the 14th motion from the staff that is presented here in the synopsis: To protect the security of the north on civil grounds and on the basis of national security policy, to be a good guard in terms of security with the other northern nations and our other alliances in NATO, recommend military development and work diligently to maintain peace and stability in the region. That's what we're talking about, we want to maintain what has often been called low-volved areas in the North Atlantic and the North Atlantic and the Arctic. We've seen a lot of changes over the past few years in defense and security issues in our part of the world. There has been significant developments since 2018 in the affairs of Greenland and the new airports on the western coast of Greenland, Ilulissat and Nuuk, and then on the southwest corner of the Qaqortoq country. The interest of foreign superpowers in this business has increased, and we have also seen it in general on the sailing ships and on military services and in the monitoring of military forces, e.g. NATO countries and natural Russia, last year we're losing weight, maybe more than often. In general, however, we focus on maintaining this low-voltage area and aim to achieve the best results. It is also a search and rescue. It's one of the points we're working on, point 13, to improve the ability to search and save, as well as the reaction to pollution accidents, including by building up a national rescue mall and further strengthening international cooperation. As far as Iceland is concerned, it's not just a search and rescue of this over 100,000 km2 in Iceland, but our jurisdiction is nearly 800,000 miles2, so it's being taken care of as well. But we also control a much larger area than the economic history. If I remember correctly, it's an area about 1.8 million miles2, or about eighteen times more than Iceland, which we really control. This is in cooperation with foreign countries, and we have especially cooperated with the Danish Navy or Danish Marine Railroad on matters precisely related to helicopters and their patrols. So this is a big, big subject and would be desirable for us to be successful in the coming years to improve this ability through our friends' countries and to see how we can think about this for a long time. Then the person here also looks to see if there are any possibilities at the northeast corner to expand his search and rescue. More traffique has been developing here on the north side of the country and in the north of the country, and has increased in recent years, whether by cruises or by commercial freight transports, by gas transport from Russia's northern regions, west to the United States, and to the West. It is also one of these big points that is stressed. Now I'm going back and forth over the points we're discussing. I have also personally been deeply concerned about the acidification of the sea and the stage scenes that have been put on what can happen in the acidification of the sea over the next 30 to 40 years. We're only coming into this at the points of the staff. Of course, the lack of acidification of the ocean is extremely important to Icelandic interests so that it affects crops and the natural environment in general in the seas around Iceland. It's hard to go through all the points here in 10 minutes. But I especially want to enter the 19th dot, i.e. to further support Akureyri as the Arctic centre in Iceland, including with the support of educational and research institutions and knowledge centres and by promoting international conventions and cooperation on the issues of the north. It has to be possible, and this is in the northern Arctic center of Iceland in Akureyri, that there has been a lot of work to do with the northern states for the past 25 years. Then Vilhjálmur's son Stefánsson's office was founded in Akureyri, and then some other institutions have been added by the Council of North Poles, PAMEs, and CAF. During this time, over the last 20 to25 years, the center of knowledge in northern societies has been built to form through social scientific research on sustainability and self - control, equality and social well - being, equal to and adaptability in climate change times. That's what Iceland has most to offer in cooperation with countries in the north. So the Outfit suggests that this work is being done. I could list a number of other things that have been working in recent years and decades in Akureyri linked to the north. However, this is one of the big and important points in the proposals made by the Foreign Minister, who will then continue to appear before the Parliament's Parliamentary Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u114	A respectable president. Here's a proposal for a hearing of Iceland's policy in northern affairs, and it's a celebration. The proposal is based on the proposals made by a panel committee appointed by State and Development Cooperation Minister to revise Iceland's policy in the affairs of the north. I was so lucky to be on that committee, and it gave us the opportunity to acquire a great deal of information and knowledge about the north and the north-bound activities of the Icelanders. I had to think of it as a very strong motion or a firm emphasis. 19 points have been proposed, and the Allied Council has directed the government to follow a course based on these 19 focus factors. Those senators who have spoken before have come on different points and points from this conclusion. I'm gonna come in to a few, and maybe start at 17, 18, and 19, they're actually going to do international scientific work. The focus factor is to support international scientific cooperation in the north and facilitate the exchange of scientific data and to promote international research activities, including to develop a research program on the north, to further improve national research and participation in international scientific activities. Then the 18th point is to build on the effectiveness of the Ringboard of the North and thus create a setting for the future by establishing an automation agency at a North-generation site in Iceland. This is what I think is very important. In fact, Iceland has become some kind of contact point, this has developed a link where people meet and discuss the business of the north, and it is very important to create the ringboard so that it continues to connect and we can continue to build around it. Then there's the 19th dot. Friðbertsson And I'm going on with that, i.e. to further support Akureyri as the Arctic centre in Iceland, including With the support of educational and research institutions and knowledge centres, promoting international and international cooperation on the issues of the north. I wanted to trace some of the emphasis. As we know, the Arctic Circle lies through the northernmost core of Akureyri City, i.e. Through Grimey. That is for itself a great deal of reason to be connected well with the north. But in Akureyri, for many years there have been specialization and a variety of specialized northern activities, both in domestic and international contexts. It is an art form of knowledge that is made up of offices by the Council of North Pole and Corporations, and it is a very important cake and an example of how clustering activities can function and load like snowball. In this room is the founding of William, son of Stephen, who has been involved in the northern affairs of 1997. Then there is the Office of the International Arctic Science Commission, IASC, and offices of two North Pole workgroups, to protect the environment of the Arctic, CAFF, and the media, PAME. The University of Akureyri is such a part of the Northern College Network, Arctic, and one of its founders, but the university has many years of master's work in Arctic rights. It also provides the position of a guest professor, Nansens's professor, who is supported by the foreign conferences of Iceland and Norway. There are other duties involved in the North Sea. What I especially wanted to establish is that Akureyri City is actively involved in the northern-survival growth organization and the scene of the city and town council of the north. Then there are research centres in Northern Europe, one of the Kárhil in the Þinga Islands, which has to do with eastern interracial activities, and also the North Light Research Centre for Japan's Polar Research and Real Science Agency on Tarrnesi. Then I'd like to mention Rif's research station on the Meldak Plain. International research has been conducted on the impacts of northern climate change and the monitoring of vulnerable ecosystems. In other words, the Melacrad Plain is the only ecosystem that actually falls under what is called the Š subbarctic-enforcement system. Indeed, it is important that the northern affairs of a cross-cutting approach, as is a good experience in this cooperation in Akureyri and elsewhere, which has been built up as centers that can achieve a synergistic effect in the cluster business. In Akureyri, the town is now well - meaning to determine an even clearer position as the center of the North Sea in Iceland and should be supported by local representatives. Then, of course, as we have also seen in the discussion, a great deal of direct communication from Akureyri to Greenland is provided from Akureyri to Greenland. Then I'd like to go to other things, but before I go to the next point, it's obviously emphasized here that the UN's global aim for sustainable development is always in the context of policy and cooperation in the north. The 17 world goals are, of course, integrated and integrated, forming a balance between the three pillars of sustainable development; the economic support, the social support, and the environmental support. All of this is important in the north. Then I'd like to tap into the use of a satellite, both satellite and telecommunication systems, as we have entered here in our discussion but also the opportunities of satellite use. If a powerful northern satellite network is developed, it can be used in a number of natural monitoring systems, both natural and natural for monitoring changes, as well as for the use of nature and to assess tolerance for the use and sustainability of nature. There are, of course, great interests in securing transport safety by sealing the northern satellite network. Then I wanted to enter the 9th focus factor, which is to focus on the welfare of people of the north. Of course, they need opportunities and opportunities to develop their livelihood, including theirs. with access to digital communications, education and health care. National rights and equality must be fully supported, such as efforts to protect the cultural and language of the people of the north. Then you can ask yourself, " Do I not have anything to share here because we are getting our language into a digital world? ' But there are other things Iceland has supported in efforts to strengthen the northern infrastructure and contribute to economic development and well - being. For example, Iceland has been responsible for years of international equality projects in the North, but also projects on innovation in the blue economy and the sharing of knowledge about sustainable energy. There have been various cooperation projects aimed at protecting human rights, promoting equality and well - being, including those of the United States. for the prevention and control of public health, such as prevention of alcohol and drug abuse, and the work of improving mental health. [[The president calls.]] I wish. The Foreign Affairs Committee is well - off with this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u115	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir's log for the speech. The nature of the matter, according to the Norwegian-West Quartet, was inspired by the senator in his talk on the role of northern and north-eastern districts. That is well, for there have been many good work in the northern part of the country, especially in the University of Akureyri and its posts. But I'd like to maintain something here for the work that has been done by the many scholars at the University of Iceland who are doing research on the North East. Today, strong lectures are best remembered at Iceland's University on the University of Northern Research at the University of the North. These include extensive impacts of climate change in northern regions, in that series of lectures. I'd like to ask that question to why. The senator, how can we be more cooperative between this powerful university here in the United States, Iceland's University and the scholars here, and such as the scholars of the north, because the affairs of the north are not Northland or the settlements in the north, but all of us. It links us all to one another and enters society's domain, like a whale. A senator was so impressed with his speech, that there is a wide range of areas of society involved in the northern language. But I wanted to hear from what. A senator how it takes place, not only to increase its weight in northern affairs, but to this cooperation, which must also take place between scholars here on the southwest corner and the University of Iceland and then scholars and investigators in the Northland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u116	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. Of course, those dealing with scholars in Iceland have as many as possible to get involved in research and discussion on the issues of the north. The focus point in the proposal to further promote Akureyri as the Arctic center in Iceland is, in fact, just to confirm that there is a measure of leadership, and following it is important to follow through. Improve communication between all universities. We then have the Ringboard of the North, where we have seen all the colleges supply their knowledge and take part in the discussion of teachers from all over the world sharing their knowledge. Of course, it also has to be done in the international work of science, through a recognized scientific journal, and perhaps especially through the scientific community that is led by the Northern Tower Society of Akureyri. This is of great importance to those who are building a good relationship with all those who are doing research in the north. The increased interest of other Icelandic universities in northern affairs is reflecting what is taking place in the international scientific environment and the more active we are and in other places, the more important it is. But it's important that we follow the market, that the cake of Akureyri will lead to cooperation and to work everyone ready for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u117	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir tape for the answer. However, I would like to continue to call attention to the work being done on the part of the University of Iceland. Iceland's university is the largest university in the country, leading to studies in various areas of the north. He stresses quality in research and operates in a number of subsets. And scholars, as I said earlier, in all areas of the university pursue studies related to the north. Hv. paritaprevir Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótir came in on what I was going to ask, i.e. The important role of the Ringboard of the North, which has lifted a rock to get us on the map for the north-ways, and the affairs of the north, and then I'm talking about on the international map. In a perfect world, I'd like to see, too, because of it. A senator speaks of Akureyri as being leading in this area - and I do not plan to detract from the fact that Akureyri and Akureyri, Northern and educational sites there, and the University of Akureyri have been extremely powerful when it comes to studies in the north and a job related to them, as well as to the founding of William Stephen's son. But I'd also like to call attention to the great, important, and good work that scholars at the University of Iceland have accomplished when it comes to northern affairs. I think in a perfect world this cooperation between the North and the South here on our small island would have to be a powerful and leading state when it comes to the affairs of the north in times of constant and rapid changes, especially when it comes to climate change, which, in turn, enter into so-called ge-politian changes. So my second answer is a sort of trial on this importance of Iceland's University and the work that is being done there, perhaps asking that we join together for even further cooperation with our good scholars in this field.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u118	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Berry's daughter for answering. It may not have been a direct question, but it gives me an opportunity to justify the self - possession of an institution that creates the Ringboard of the Arctic Environment for the future very important in its own way, as the Arctic center in Akureyri is very important to the future in its own way. And it is extremely important for us to build both of these things up, not to set them up as contrasts, but as projects that lead us on the road; the ringboard of the north to continue drawing people and to be magnets to create the dough needed for the discussion, and Akureyri to keep up their arms, including the media. within the role of the Council of North Pole offices, CAFF and PAME. Their role is to gather and share information within this cooperation. They need to be careful that they can do their part well, the Arctic centre in Akureyri and the National Socialist Institute for Self - Control, Iceland, the Ringboard of the North.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u119	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion much. I'm gonna thank her. I have found her to be exemplary, objective, and materialistic. Here we go. People raised as many as possible if not all were on the committee that prepared this, the parapolitan committee, under the leadership of the authorities. paritaprevir Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir's daughter and why. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson. I think it's very, very happy that we are discussing this important party in the way we do here. Hv. paritaprevir The wife of Haraldsdóttir, however, pointed out that one of our goals is to increase awareness and discussion of the issues of the north. We're a northern nation, and we should always keep that in mind and speak for those who live here, and then I'm referring to the big context. The task is many, and it is very good for the Council Committee to get so well together on these important things. A respectable president. It has been observed that the committee was able to collect information on things I agreed with and set up in this Senate resolution, both in an effort to see to it that the Ringboard of the North will be created for the future by establishing the European Commission of Independence, in Iceland, and further promoting Akureyri as the center of the Northern Environment in Iceland. These are big decisions if they go through the council I'm expecting. As it turned out here in the exchange of words. This is not the contrast, and it is, of course, as shown in the discussion, that the affairs of the north are all about the country. But I think it's wise, and it's as supportive as I can that these suggestions work out. I think we're a nation that wants to achieve the goals set out here by doing this. A respectable president. I can't wait to see how these matters seem. State Department. There's a lot of them. Senators who participate in the discussion, and I think it's safe to say that. In general, members of Parliament agree on the suggestions, and this is a good basis for not leaving the affairs of the north. This is something that we need to work on in the next few decades at least, and it is of importance that these priorities are well worked out, and that the things presented here are important to us. So I just want to use this opportunity, a respectable president, and thank the senators for an extremely good and objective discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u120	A respectable president. I recommend here a synopsis proposal that I only heated up earlier by starting a story talk in a language that is truly related but is not of the same subject. I would like to recommend a hearing of increased cooperation between Greenland and Iceland. The Parliament's decision is to consult with the Generals for a discussion with the Greenlandian government on a two-sided cross-collar deal, based on the proposals of the Foreign and Developmental Ministers. As a minister of foreign affairs, I have put great emphasis on the north and on dealing with other northern states. The last loss has been a special focus on northern issues, increasing communication between countries and commercial opportunities in this immensely delicate region, and I have already set out work to further analyze these issues and the interests of Iceland. A respectable president. Greenland plays a key role in the north and is also a geographic neighbor to Iceland's next neighbor. During recent years, two - side communication between countries has intensified, especially by opening Iceland's e - mail office in Nuuk in 2013 and opening a green - language e - mail office in Reykjavík in 2018. The communication between cultures, arts, and sports has been quite extensive, as has the Great Red Cross been accomplished by the French and the Red Cross. I think it's important to promote cooperation further. The countries already have a lot of common interests to care for, including In the area of fishing, air service, air traffic, travel, climate, and Arctic products As noted earlier, in April 2018, I ordered a committee on the development of increased cooperation with Greenland and Iceland in new northern regions. This year, the committee returned me a thorough report with its proposal to increase the cooperation of the countries. Under proposals of the Committee, a comprehensive analysis of the status of the two-sided national communication is, in fact, the greatest analysis ever performed on national relations. The committee set out ten suggestions for policy making on a total of 99 suggestions. At the same time, the committee stressed that Greenland and Iceland had a future framework for cooperation. A respectable president. The proposal for a hearing presented here, along with a report, is based on the Greenland Commission's main proposals. The report of the Commission and extraction is provided in the following form of the Parliamentary resolution proposal, but the report has previously been distributed in printed form at the Council. In view of the fact that northern issues and increased communication with our next neighbors, and especially Greenland is a priority in Icelandic foreign policy, it is important to start up with the Greeny government on the Greenland Commission's proposals. Now that a new government has taken over the Management Board of Greenland, we have the opportunity to resume our conversation with Greenland. From the part of Iceland it will be based on the articles and suggestions discussed in the Greenland report, and it is important to note that the Green - American Self - Control Act will be taken into full consideration. A respectable president. I suggest that after this discussion, this proposal be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u121	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of State for the past over the years of this great council resolution to increase the cooperation of Greenland and Iceland. I will enter a few points in a brief talk afterward, but I wanted to ask the highest. State and Development Ministers whether and how the conversation and cooperation with the Danish government have been put into practice with the proposal of the Senate to expand the cooperation of Greenland and Iceland. We know that some of Greenland's affairs are on the custody of the Greenlandians themselves, and I wondered if the Icelandic government had some conversation with the Danish government and what, related to this synopsis proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u122	A respectable president. As stated in the council resolution proposal, by permission of the president: The General concluded to hide the government, to agree with the Council, to follow up on the Greenland Commission and Development Ministers' report on increased relations between Greenland and Iceland in areas where national interests are being met. A cross-react between countries to describe targets in designated policy areas will be made to agree with key stakeholders. For the part of Iceland, the seminars and suggestions discussed in the Greenland Commission report will be emphasized. The Treaty also takes full account of the Greenlandic self - control laws. In the case of the Danish government, they've been observing this work, and I've discussed this with Dana's ambassador here. They have been aware of this work from the very beginning, but most of all, when it came to suggestions and such things, it was on the hands of the committee who has now introduced it, if I know it correctly, before that date. Foreign Affairs Committee how that work was carried out. There were meetings with various sources, which are listed in these 99 motions of potential candidates that divide dozens. As indicated by the proposal, the Greenlandian Self - Control Act has been taken into account, but since the first day, the Danish government has been aware of the work and has studied the contents of the report.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u123	Mr. President. It's good to hear, like the highest. A minister stated that there were up - to - date discussions between the Icelandic government and the Italian government over the report and the expected suggestions to be presented and applied to the Generals Table. In my second answer, I'd like to ask the highest. The minister of foreign relations with the United States in connection with this council resolution because the report on the communications between Greenland and Iceland contains at least 15 times the former president of the United States, Donald Trump, and on page. 31 with President's permission, says: Thus, the United States'blurred long - standing indifference in the North has risen to a new translation by the Donald Trump reevaluation of the government of the century. These are not small words. There it is, what I'm supposed to say, thanks to Donald Trump for finally showing us interest and north-east too, and it's true that the interests of his government grew great and quite classy. I would like to direct that question to the highest level. Secretary of State whether he can predict a change of direction, a focus for the new Joes Bidens government. And I'd like to get out from the highest, too. Minister of State whether or not in relation to this significant report and suggestions that have come to the level of the Generals, some conversation took place with the European Union and other European countries rather than Denmark. They are likely to closely monitor this work and the Parliament's decrees and the discussion presented here at the Icelandic National Assembly. Has the highest. Foreign Minister in some way had conversations with the European or European Union representatives? [[The president calls.]] And then the first part of my questions about the changed priorities of the United States government.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u124	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Just to start with, I decided, not only in this case, but when it comes to e.g. The EEA report and I can mention more, both of which apply to my knowledge and experience of former politicians who have deep knowledge of the case, and they write their reports with their working groups. Many other countries that are larger than we have entirely shared in their advisers who do such things and although, indeed, there are divisions associated with this in the Ministry of State for maintenance and trust, these are reports that give evidence of being from independent working groups, as it were. It's not that the State Department wrote this report. However, it is suggested there that the suggestions will be the basis for the exchange between Iceland and Greenland. Regarding the importance of changing with the new government in the United States, it is quite clear that there is a great deal of interest in the Arctic and thus the United States. to open the consulate and I don't know anything about it. We see to it that now the discovery in the Council of the North, with the discovery that the U.S. Secretary of State has announced his arrival. With regard to other nations, these things have been discussed in the Northern Union, and we are likely discussing the northerns, and as a result, Greenland too. I introduced this report to all Iceland's embassies, and there was a very large meeting, of course, a web meeting, and I think that about 100 people have just participated in it who have read not only this report but also the report Forward Walk! ... aboutthefree shops. [[The president calls.]] What a joy it is to find out what both our friends and our neighbors had studied these matters and to think that they were both very interesting and especially this Greenland report!
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u125	Mr. President. Council proposals for increased cooperation with Greenland and Iceland are here on schedule. As head of Iceland at the Western Council, of course, I welcome this declared will of state and development secretary, and of the goals to which it reflects. Visitors are our next neighbor, but just 300 miles [300 km] separate us from where the shortest are from shore to shore. Nevertheless, there are extraordinary things that we are strange about the interests of our good neighbors in spite of quite some dealings with the Greenlands of old. So we know much more about the circumstances in the Faeroe Islands, and I have a feeling, and my experience suggests that the Faeroe Islands know a lot more than we do in Greenland. This may be explained by their long - term fishing and camping campaigns in these parts. We have many things in common with our neighbors in the West, Greenland. In the light of history, both countries' headwork has been the same, but most of them had little relationship between the seas. This has changed over the past few years, with the involvement of the Icelanders in the Greenland Sea, as well as the increased consultation and cooperation of the countries over the use of common fish stocks. In fact, Icelanders are no newborns on the Greenlandites. In the middle of the last century, Icelandic tugs came from both cod and a karap off the coasts of Greenland, and this centre was attacked all at that time and after much effort. In time, coastal waters began to spread their fishing history and to eliminate foreign fishing vessels. In recent years, Icelandic industrialists and contractors have taken on a major task in Greenland, and there is confidence between the nations that is reflected in many contracts, including the U.S. On the seabed, but in Greenland, powerful companies are active in this field belonging to the Icelanders and the Greenlandians as a team. And transport, both air and sea, has a significant cooperation. For years, cultural and social interaction has been quite a factor. Young guys come to Iceland and get acquainted with school and sports, including Swimming. There is currently a Western education school hosted at Iceland's Versailles School where young people take part in each country by themselves, Denmark, the Faeroe Islands, Iceland, and Greenland. This is very positive. In addition, we can refer to a friendly community connected to a rural town as a local people, at Icelandic shops. Mr. President. Although only a few Greenlanders have lived in Iceland, they will be no more than 70, perhaps 75, far fewer than the Faeroeties who are here more than 300 - they are as eager guests in Iceland as ever have been. I cannot refrain, Mr. President, to look back a few years and report one guest because it now relates to my dear former hometown, Iceland. It has been over 95 years since the Danish ship Gustav Holm set sail on August 25, 1925. There were 89 Greenlanders, as well as a crew of Danish crews. It was not unusual for a ship to be docked on the island, but greener guests were rarer, and it was probably unique. In fact, that journey had a tragic and tragic tone that the local people had no knowledge of most likely. In western Greenland, there had been Danir for about 200 years and had been a major influence on the community, but it was different in the eastern part of Greenland, where only a few hundred people lived near the Ammasslik. This visit was quite an event at Iceland, and a big event in Iceland too, since almost no one had been present to meet Icelanders or Icelanders. One exception had been that Iceland had been employed in Greenland, the Icelandic missionaries had been there in the 18th century, artisans were en route there, such as. Sigurður Breiðfjörð, who later wrote a book about his presence there. The people on board at Gustav Holm were on their way to Scoresby Strait, and the reason for this had come to pass on the island was in the middle of the political conflict between Dana and the Norwegians. The Danish and Norwegian government had debated land areas in Eastern Germany, the Norwegians had for a time used resources in these regions and were feeding on the coasts of the Eastern Pacific. The Norwegians were interested in it for historical reasons to gain their valid rights in part of Eastern Germany. They called it the land of Eiríkur rauður. The Danish government reacted in various ways, including by encouraging inhabitants of the Ammasslik region to move to Scoresbysund, which is a long distance apart. The Norwegians claimed that territory, but this made them want to confirm their rights to the territory. And this is in many ways the miserable fate of this nation. These were 70 people from the Am Masslik and 20 people from Western Germany who visited the United States during those days in August, but they counted for three days. The Greenlanders were taken with advantages and sex, and they were greatly welcomed by Icelanders who carried them on their hands, but the Islamic city authorities had a great deal to appreciate that reception would be the best and formed committees for preparation. When the ship arranged for officers on board, they did not intend to let people off the table, but after significant numbers, the sailors were allowed to leave for land, but not for everyone. West-Eastlanders were given a leave of passage, but only part of the East-Eastlands. This was because the men in charge felt that the people were too bad. On the other hand, those who were allowed to leave the table enjoyed much hospitality from the townspeople, attended a church dedication ceremony, was invited for rides, a movie show, and finally to a feast in the Jewish outdoor region of the Tungu Forest. Mr. President. A brief look through the windows of ancient times, but evidence of this visit is well - preserved in language and photos, in Martin Simson's Simson, and it is noteworthy that both in Reykjavík and in Iceland, had been completed 95 years since this event of 2019. This is a tragic story involving the downtrodden, the poor of a nation that could be dealt with with by bitter procrastination, but it is breaking into prosperity and independence. Mr. President. Today and the future are on the move. We have between the fine and handsome Greenland report of the so-called or Greenland Commission's report, and we now discuss a proposal for Congress based on this report, as stated in the highest court case. Minister. In many ways, the report is impressive in the outward aspect of the mind, and it is fascinating in many aspects of the inner person. It's very accessible. Here are exciting ten suggestions for policy, all of which are useful and upbuilding, although they vary in size but are relevant to all. They are the 99 suggestions contained in this report and are divided into several categories. It is emphasized that cooperation with the Greenlandns on both terms and/or on both sides is put in equal terms where both nations will benefit. Teamwork and partnership with Greenland are important for Iceland, just as it is for Greenland. Behind the report is an analysis of the status of the two - sided international relations as well as the changing state of the countries because of the greater interest in the northern powers. There is also a high opinion of major sectors, such as fishing roads, tourism, and mining. These suggestions deal with the possibility of increased cooperation between government, rural society, private sector, free partnerships, sports, art, and culture. In fact, various matters mentioned have been on the table of the Western Council sooner and later, e.g. Study of fish technology and emphasis on young people in the north. Mr. President. In general, there is reason to welcome the report and the light being given of the various cases that are killed and reason to thank the foreign minister for the initiative to take on this timely and effective assignment. [[The president calls.]] It is important to implement the plans. Like the northern nations, green lands experience a change of time, moving toward full independence, and reaching a prosperous state. [[The president calls.]] We can be a support there if the Greenlandians themselves choose to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u126	Mr. President. We are here in the hands of a rather remarkable body of Congress proposals, which are the product of the remarkable work of the so-called Greenland Committee, which overseeed the cooperation of Greenland and Iceland, and charting the opportunities of increased cooperation between countries. As the letter says, this great, good, big, thick report from the highest. The secretary of state is the greatest analysis ever performed by the State Department in dealing with the two countries. I'm going to use this opportunity to thank the authors of the report, former secretary of state, Össur Skarphéðinsson's ex - president of the Generals, Unnur Konráðsdóttir Konsoldydóttir, as well as Óttar Guðlaugsson for their work and the staff involved in the report. This Parliamentary proposal involves setting priorities for the Greenland Committee on ten guidelines for the future of cooperation as well as, as the committee suggests, Greenland and Iceland make a framework for future cooperation. It's good, and it's good that these two countries are here, in view of all the changes that are taking place in the north along with faster climate change that affect all areas, whether they are fishing or social, and changes in regional, etc. So this is a most welcome opportunity to map the cooperation of these two countries. However, I have to mention that most of the ten policy suggestions are, if I allow myself to say so, Mr. President, quite soft suggestions. Tasiilaq proposes a vacation home, a beautiful proposal for support to the vulnerable, with the support of the Green Red Cross and the cooperation with the Red Cross, and a proposal for an up - to - date work contract of the countries in the medical field. But what is perhaps the most important thing to me in these policy proposals is a two-sided deal between the two countries, a new global fishing contract, as well as the cooperation between Iceland and Greenland on micro-organists in Eastern Europe, which aims to replace oil as energy sources in house heating and electricity production. The proposal suggests that East Germany will be introduced into the energy institution's microengineering programme. These may be my knowledge, Mr. President, the suggestions that are the largest and the most extensive and that affect international cooperation in a clearer way than the others, although the suggestions are of course good as they are, as well as worse. A senator before me, the Guðjón of Brjánsson, also mentioned, as well as the cultural and social cooperation that has taken place in the area of the Western American Council. The report's a lot of woody and good, but it's also interesting. For example, there is a discussion on how China and Greenland communicate, and that is interesting and might be a subject of another discussion and other inquiry as to how it harmonizes with our emphasis when it comes to dealing with China, how Greenland has spent the past few years endeavored to find close and satisfying cooperation with China, which includes: has come to China to visit Greenland officials and to have a great cooperation among them. It will probably continue in sales, i.e. The cooperation of both countries with China. I mentioned earlier in my earlier speech that it is an enormous and important work of Icelandic scholars, both at the University of Iceland and at the University of Akureyri, at all the research sites in the country around the North, and it's good, and it's a good thing that we are discussing these matters here, on the one hand, a proposal for action on policy policy issues in the North, as well as on this Parliamentary arrangement for increased cooperation between Greenland and Iceland. The climate change is a natural major issue, and our major subject is here in the years and decades to come. It is of great importance that Iceland is made clear and strong in strengthening the cooperation of our closest neighbors, and as a state, we are part of a conversation, hopefully and cooperation between the states involved in the North East when it comes to safety and protection, when it comes to shipping routes and use of resources and, of course, when it comes to climate change. It's like the highest. The minister of foreign affairs came upon me when I asked him about the importance of the new U.S. government, then it is clear that the new U.S. government is putting its climate on a high priority and has made them the main growth in its national security policy. Then, in Iceland, it is a good idea to strengthen our bond and cooperation with the United States in just the goal of making us settled in the north, and to cooperate with one another when it comes to the impacts of climate change. It would have been nice to see here as thick and thick as a careful report when it comes to the EEA treaties or cooperation with the European Union. But I'm waiting and hoping we'll see that kind of doubrant from the highest. Secretary of state on European affairs. How good it is for us to map these relationships in the changed world and especially when the changes are as fast as we can see them! I would like to encourage the Ministers and the government to rejoice in promoting and increasing the cooperation of the two northern countries but also to have good cooperation with other countries as well as with the United States, as I mentioned in my inquiry, when it comes to other European countries and the United States. I remind you of my idea, which could be the basis for a Congress resolution, of some kind of climate contract between the United States and Iceland that would then affect our relationship with our good neighbors in the west, in Greenland. I'm not gonna keep this for a while. I just want to make these three suggestions of the ten that I find most interesting because they may be more relevant to the existing international politics. It would be nice to hear from the highest. Foreign and Development Minister how he provides three suggestions for future cooperation and cooperation with both Greenland and other countries. But as soon as we finish this discussion here, I'd like to thank you again to all of those who came to this important work on the Greenland Commission report on the cooperation of Greenland and Iceland in the new north, and thanks to that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u127	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister of the minister for this report, and the situation has been established. It falls into the collection of several other reports that have occurred during winter, which have been very good and important for us Icelanders to have. These include reports such as Forward march! on Iceland's business with the foreign countries, Björn Bjarnason's report on security. We see that this is actually very good reports, and the one we're discussing here, the Greenland report, is a 250-page document on very important subjects that are important to us in Iceland. It is right to thank the former minister of State and the chairman and the staff of the writing of the Greenland report, the Acquisite son of Skarphéðinsson, and the other members of the Committee, Konráðsdóttir Brá Konsurdóttir and Óttar of Guðlaugsson, for their fine work in connection with this report. As I read the report, I found that there was much I could say and, with the permission of a president, I would like to give a witness to what is on page. 36: 36: ▪ The countries are catapulting from each other, and between them is mutually understanding, friendship, and respect. Thus, close cooperation is likely to have an additive effect in many areas, providing both economic and political benefits as well as strengthening the position of both towards the outside world. What I find truly so important in this, and I think that there is a key to all communication between Iceland and Greenland, these three words: understanding, friendship, and respect. I'm thinking that when we Icelands call on Greenland, we'll find this well-being of Greenland to Iceland, and we're supposed to watch out for the great trust that the Greenlands have in us, and we'll continue to communicate with them. This is of utmost importance because these good relationships will be of utmost importance to us in this century, and much depends on them. In many areas, the report shows in the paper with the Parliament's resolution form based on the Greenland report, including the Greenland Protocol. ... abouttheenforcement of the cooperation of Greenland and Iceland. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ The report is a turning point; the Ministry of State has never previously attacked in such extensive analysis of the relationship between the two countries. This is a 250-page document we'll discuss here. If I quote this report, Mr. President's permission: The report discusses land and community, governance and politics in Greenland, infrastructure, including the considerable structure of air transport and sea transport. Then you will find a special discussion of East Germany and the special subjects there. I would like to include in this brief talk some features, such as the seabed. We have groups, and we see how important it is to have a good cooperation in that area. This is a considerable cooperation in which Icelandic companies are participating in the Greenland fishing industry in a good and positive way. Then, too, the report on the air service that is naturally related to the future tourism. Greenlanders stress the development of tourism, providing more support for their economy, as we Icelanders have been doing in a more diverse way in recent decades than it was some 30◯40 years ago when we may have been in a position similar to Greenland today when we had relatively monotonous fishing exports. But then the fly comes in strong, because it flies more and less all the tourists in Greenland. Yes, it is a cruise ship, but the flight has an enormously important role, and the Greenlanders now show that they are changing a considerable amount of transport to the flight. They're about to go to three airports in Ilulissat, Nuuk, and the south coast, Qaqortoq, where there will be international airports, 2,200 meters on Nuuk and Ilulissat. And then we're going to build a 1,600,71,700-yard track in South Germany, so we're going to be flying straight into this field from abroad instead of flying through Syrid-Straumsvík, or Kangerlasaq. So these are the large, large, and largest infrastructures carried out in Greenland, related to this airport structure. It's a very important policy for Greenland and the future for Greenland to make big decisions related to this. Now it's a question of how the cooperation between the Icelanders and the Greenlandians will be possible for the future, then connect these airports. The report also shows that we are fully cooperating in the control of traffic. On one hand, the Center for Flight, Reykjavík, conducts a flight in the skies above Greenland. Since then, the Icelandic air traffic managers have been working at Syria Straumsvík, or Kangerlasaq, and there they have taken care of the air traffic control of the last few years and have also been training up Greenlanders to become traffic managers. Today there are three of them. That's very positive, and all that cooperation has been very successful. In my first talk just before, I went through the importance of the satellite account. There's no time to pass through it here, but it's enormously important and like the development of EGNOOS or WAS. I just want to mention here that I think it would be very interesting to draw close to the relationship that has to do with it. This is extremely important for the Greenlandians, and it's also very important for us Icelanders to get it together here in the North Atlantic. Then there is also an important point in the report that mentions the shipping transport. We now see this common network that has been building between the Royal Arctic Line and the Eimships on ships transport, so this is now linked to a network on the Diving Sea and a vast range of possibilities for the Greenlandns in exporting e.g. To America. There's a lot of interesting in this report. One thing I found very informative was that the Greenland export is, for example, an e.g. 13 times as much to China as to America. It is very interesting and will be exciting to see how these new ships are introduced, whether there will be a change when it becomes easier to approach other markets from Greenland than before. In many places, this report has been made available. And time goes fast. But there are very interesting ideas about telecommunications, and there has been a search for Icelanders in this regard. High school in the Grinch has been consulted from high schools in Greenland for cooperation, and this has been a partnership. Since then, it has been pointed out how far the University of Akureyri is in all the telecommunications. There could be an opportunity for a study in Greenland and then perhaps overcome some knowledge related to this, and even the other way, to have a long - range study from Greenland to Iceland. So there are very exciting things in this regard. Health issues. A hospital flight on the East Coast of Greenland has been taken care of from Akureyri for a long time. These are some 3,000 people, whether in the Ambascotic region or around the Scoresby Strait. Norlandair in Akureyri has taken care of medical flights in that area and actually around Greenland in cooperation with Air Greenland. That's a lot of cooperation, and we can make it count a lot. I can see that my time is getting shorter and I've barely started the points I've already made, for example. nothing said about possible mining and the important role we need to discuss more, e.g. Cooperation with mining in Greenland, some support service. We have not been able to discuss important and rare metals and such in high - tech technology, of which there is an abundance in Greenland, and surely will be considered in the future. But there's no time for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u128	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Ministers for this synonym, which goes on to follow the proposals of the Greenland report, a number of which, 99 people, I think, this is a large, thick book. But there's nothing too much to go on before the Senate resolutions, so the report is just supplemented. I wonder just how they're going to hold this and how the top is going to be held. A minister to find a channel for this within the Ministry how to do so. We're talking about a national frame deal, and I think it's important and it's time. In many respects, I was intrigued by what was presented in the report as to our small cooperation. I thought it was something, though. In Greenland and Greenlandic politics, I have been a member of the Western Council for five years now. I was surprised to learn what is presented there, that is not a targeted partnership on many times where it would be natural to have a great deal of cooperation. For my part, I've put emphasis on business relationships and vacation contracts, and I think it's a very important proposal, and I hope it gets through. Over a period of time, the Hoyevík Convention, a free trade deal between Iceland and the Faeroe Islands, was discussed, and many times I've put it together with my green friends, the senators there, whether they want to be with us in all of this. There has been a tremendous lack of interest, and this has really surprised me. I believe that the international trade and opportunity of Iceland to negotiate free trade agreements with other nations is what gives us economic growth and guarantees our independence as a country. I would have thought that it would likewise have been a delight to want the Greenlandians to become more independent, i.e. to contribute to international trades and to make free trade agreements with more countries. I'm also going to admit, a respectable president, that you wonder what the reaction will be in Denmark, perhaps in relation to what I went through earlier when I was discussing the synonyms from the Westnoric Council. We remember that the minister of Denmark's foreign affairs was not satisfied with a cooperative agreement made between Iceland's foreign minister, the Faeroe Islands, and Greenland at the time when we in the Westnoric Council recommended it and made that journey with us. Today, the one present seems to be a special spokesman for the independence of the Greenlandns when it comes to internationalism, has worked so hard with the Greenlandites, and cooperated with them. But I believe that the Greenlands have a chance to play the Gothic. It is an overwhelmingly wealthy nation, both of resources, but also of natural beauty. It's a unique country in this regard. I think it is a great opportunity to market it and sell it and to let others enjoy it. At the same time, however, there is also great balance when it comes to promoting tourism in Greenland, where there is apparent opportunity but also a very delicate nature. We've had this conversation at the Western Council's scene, had a special theme conference for tourism, and then they were very eager to learn from the Icelanders but also to learn from our mistake in these matters. I'm not going to extend this discussion. I'm glad this proposal has come along and I want to emphasize the importance of reaching the national free trade agreement and further promoting business relationships between Icelandic and Greenlandic companies, even though they're already someone. Of course, that's how you find it, and I've had a conversation with a member of Greenland who's been in Greenland's business council looking for a foreign investment and a foreign partnership, that they also want to be very careful about what is understandable. There's a lot of attendance from foreign countries in Greenland. Many see these opportunities. We both know of the Chinese and the Americans, and now I'm not just talking about some Trump joke, because it's striking what the U.S. embassy in Nuuk has become, and a lot of commissions that come on a regular basis. It also helps us to think that the Greenlandns view us as friends and allies, as well as opportunities and strong friendships that are right in a good way to cultivate.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u129	A respectable president. Again, I thank you for an extremely good and objective discussion, and it's good to hear the response. Parliamentaries with the council agreement and the report we've discussed before. We went this way, got to the party, in this case former minister of State, Össur Skarphéðinsson, former senator, Konráðsdóttir Brá Konsádótir, and Óttarr Guðlaugsson, to work with the Ministry, similar to what was done in another large report performed under the leadership of former minister of education and justice, Bjarnason, and Halldórsdóttir Heimisdóttir Kristrún and Kristrúsbourdoritir. I hope this work is here to be, because I think it's both more practical and more practical, and we get more out of it when we use the energy of people who are interested and have a lot of knowledge of these matters at one time. And just as it is said, this report has also brought international attention, it has been translated, and we have been very responsive to it. I've been through a lot of things here, and thank you very much. Parliaments for warm words to me and the Committee. The rest of the question was asked, what? paritaprevir This was done by Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brylflfóttir, a vacation store, a fishing agreement, and a collaborating for microdots. The plan is to sit down with new governments in Greenland and negotiate a frame deal. We do nothing but cooperate with the Greenlandians, and then, of course, their interest is found in where we should work together. But I think the report is informative, and it's very deep, and it has suggestions like this level, we can say, these are 99 suggestions for that whole, from very small things, when it comes to money and other things, to very large things. But all of this is what I hope is that the members of the report will look closely and appreciate whether it is of interest in these two countries to work together on this field. Early reactions were such that, more than any person mentioned in the report, have shown interest in following these matters, which I thought were pretty intense. One of the things we've done at the Ministry is plan so that we can work with these matters, but again - we'll do nothing more in cooperation and in cooperation with the Greenlands. Hv. paritaprevir Njáll of Trausti Friðbertsson listed here such things as the flight, as well as what is well presented in the report, what cooperation between Royal Arctic Line, Greenland, and Eimship may be a major possibility. I can agree with that, both with ya. paritaprevir "The Guðjón of the Son of Brjánsson" "The Son of Engren." paritaprevir Bryndís daughter Haraldsdóttir is actually quite remarkable what has been a little cooperation, considering how close it is to each other, but hopefully we'll see a change in that. At the end, a respectable president, the interest is on our side. I can only tell that these priorities are related to a parapolitic solidarity. And what is most enjoyable is that during a Greenland poll that asks for increased cooperation, interest in increased cooperation with state and state law, the greatest interest is in cooperation with Iceland. More than 90% of the Greenlandians consider it a promising option. I view it as building a good trust between the states, and I want to draw attention to it as at the end that it is difficult to build trust, but it is easy to break it down. We need to keep that in mind in all our dealings with our neighbors, friends, and allies, and this is especially true here. I also hope, sir, a respectable president, that there will not only be increased communication between the parties listed there, which are important, there are various people in the business world, free members, schools, health authorities, and such, but also politicians. Hv. The members of Bryndís Haraldsdóttir and the Goddjong of Brjánsson Brjánnsson have been very familiar with and have done so very well, and they must, of course, continue to do so. No one will be betrayed by visiting Greenland. I can guarantee you that. Not only is it, as we've seen, a wonderful nature but it's also very manned, and we can learn a lot from the Greenlands and how they do their things. I think that increased cooperation between Greenland and Iceland is something that we can all enjoy and will be able to benefit from, not just for us now, but for future generations as well. I know why. I'm convinced that we're going to finish this business right now. It will be the basis for an even better relationship between the nations, and that is a cause of great joy.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-26-85.u130	A respectable president. I recommend here for bill to correct the change in package travel laws and interconnected transport options. This bill suggests that the travel insurance fund will be established, which is the key to ensuring the reimbursement of tourists, or the failure of a travel agency. A major factor in the development of travel insurance policy is the formation of government policy. In the future view and guidance from Icelandic tourism to 2030, under the heading Guide for sustainable development, there is also Based on the basis of coordination, quality and knowledge. In accordance with policy measures, economic sustainability is achieved including with emphasis on increased production, valuable creations, and competitiveness throughout the country. With the establishment of a travel policy fund, local tourism agencies are working to achieve these objectives by means of a new insurance system, which includes a major business management system for them as well as a large - scale consumer protection, as I shall explain later in my speech. Last March, at the beginning of the Korean virus epidemic, many packets were quickly canceled. Although the journeys were lifted for good reasons, for example, it was simply not possible to carry out them because of the strict disease control regulations that the authorities around the world were about to make, tourists were entitled to pay full reimburse what they had already paid for the travel that would not be carried out. This resulted in a great financial problem for many travel agencies, which were eventually solved by loan from a travel guarantee fund established by the Allied Council by law No. 78/2020. That provision has now come to an end, but the experience gained by the travel guarantee fund has benefited from the system changes achieved by the development of travel insurance. It has fixed water divorces in the history of packaging insurance in this country. As traced to the bill's report, special packaging insurance has been available for decades. These guarantees have been made in the form of insurance funds that travel agencies have had to rely on. During the addition of Iceland's membership to the EEA Convention, there was one fixed sum of money, but with increased consumer protection following Iceland's Member States' Member States on the basis of the scope of the sales of packages per one travel agency. The system has been largely unchanged since then, but the major change was made over two years ago when more factors were taken into the calculations of insurance levels but were only successful. Thus factors such as prolonged travel were taken into account, how long before the start of the complete payment procedure is required and how high the proportion of confirmation is of total budget. Taking these factors into account will help each individual enterprise to take into account the risks of operation. Current insurance obligations can be attributed to the regulations of the package transport directive aimed at ensuring the protection of consumers in this field. The social security fund this has that has a number of advantages over the insurance system approved in this country, which has meant that each company has put in deposit every year, which is behind reimbursement. This system is expensive for companies who either have to contribute cash or bank responsibilities to satisfy bail. In order to obtain credit for the bank, companies will then have to make bail. The system consists of a substantial binding far beyond what is necessary since the bankruptcy of tourism is not very common and has been less than one in the past decade. As a result of an insurance policy, individual enterprises can be significantly reduced, and this will result in considerable financial loss for tourism agencies that can be used for more profitable business projects. Based on the normal interest requirements of between 10 and 12 percent per year, it may be estimated that the cost of budgeting for tourism, resulting from the current system is about half a billion dollars a year as well as the amount of money that is expected to become the economy of a whole travel agency of the fund. A much more favourable system therefore needs to be discussed with an enterprise active on this market. The sea, however, does not only look for further management for tourism agencies but also includes increased consumer protection from the system that has been valid. It is not possible to ensure that a travel agency's insurance money will always be sufficient to repay everyone for bankruptcy. It is because there is an unwillingness to set bail levels for real time to ensure that an existing amount of money is sufficient at any given time. When a cohesion fund is active, it does not prove necessary, since the fund guarantees all payments except for a complete system crash, which will be considered unlikely, especially in view of its failure at the beginning of the Korean epidemic, which included the greatest downturn to travel that has ever occurred. Thus, the fund can guarantee consumer protection in a much better way than it has been. Travel insurance will work as a self-employment agency with a close connection to the official surveillance role of a travel agency. In a private institution, it owns itself and therefore does not become part of the government of the government of the government. It is a normal arrangement for social security, and in line with the way other such funds are all equal employment. The companies involved in the sale of packages will be subject to a travel policy fund. Enterprises are already authorized under the regulations of a travel agency and, therefore, a large percentage of companies are involved. This enterprise finances the fund, and thus corporate payments never come to the State. The bill, on the other hand, puts a clear frame on the business of the fund and on how it should be handled, on the source of the funds, and on how his funds should do business. The sea has the sole purpose of protecting the interests of tourists who have purchased packages or linked travel arrangements for a national travel agency. The Group of Travellers and the Neighbour Association will appoint members in the management board of the fund, and in preparation of the bill there will be a special consultation with the organization. Travel agencies on markets should not feel much change in other people's activities than that insurance levels are greatly reduced and companies will, of course, feel that it is an advantage. It has been tried to keep system change more simple for a working company. Travel agencies will provide the same information every year, as it has been in the past two years, and will provide the basis for the calculation of insurance levels and the amount of money paid each company pays to the fund once a year. The annual budget for each enterprise depends on the financial value of each company. The conduct of official monitoring of insurance obligations will be in the hands of a travel agency, but the implementation of it will be subject to changes in the direction that monitoring becomes more risky and thus more efficient. In a system where each travel agency contributes insurance money, the same monitoring is necessary for all travel agencies regardless of the risk of their operation. The establishment of travel insurance does not require the same, since it can be assured that in the case of the failure of most travel companies, any payment can be reimbursed without problems. In this way monitoring will be more effective in examining the information of the enterprises that are deemed necessary at any time in order to ensure consumer protection and correct payment in the fund. At the same time, a travel agency is suggested to gain additional resources in the form of a government ticket due to misinformation, and it will also be punished by misuse of the fund by misinformation. The bill suggests that the funds will be formed according to the provision made by temporary regulations. It suggests that each travel agency, operating in 2019 pay of 1.5% of the calculated financial height relative to the actual sale of the year's package travel. A special Regulation is issued for a company that started work in 2020 or later, but it is suggested that the year 2018 be determined by a fund payment decision in which the year 2020 is not a significant year for international tourism because of obvious reasons. Since travel agencies pay 1.5% of the calculated bail level compared to a real sale package in 2019, the fund can be set up and started with its monocommunications fund fund fund fund fund funded by the currently funded enterprises. Clearly, this is a fairly burdensome procedure, but these are also the companies that enjoy the greatest profit from the fund's establishment. Enterprises that start business over the next few years will need to buy into the fund by paying the fee to which they operate for the first five years. As a whole, the system will include a lot of money for tourism but at the same time reduce the access block, resulting in an increased competition for the benefit of consumers and industry. A respectable president. By means of this bill, we look forward to the future and add the condition of Icelandic tourism to a powerful resistance after the completion of our crowning season. With its approval and the establishment of the travel insurance fund, we will use the opportunities for the epidemic to change the system, resulting in a more favorable job conditions for an enterprise in this article, thus increasing opportunities for international tourism. After this discussion, I suggest that the matter be passed through 2nd. ... andwhat. Business committee.
