ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u1	Borist has received a letter from the Minister of Justice asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a request for this request. 1301, on the penalty for possession of drugs, from Björn Leví the son of Gunnarsson. There have been letters received from the Department of Social Affairs where the request is made to provide written answers to the requested application. 1261, on rehabilitation, from Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson; on the icicle. 130, for microenergy evaluation and rehabilitation, from Ágúst Augustusson; and for a council document of 1292, the correction rate of the microenergy donor from Dodora Mogensen. A letter has been received from a foreign minister asking for every request to provide a written answer to a covering query. 9.0 adviser services, contractors and temporary projects, from Gunnar Sveinsson Sjörnson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u2	To answer, financial and economic ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, Social Affairs and Children's Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u3	President. Not long ago, I asked the highest. Ministers, whether it would be reasonable to assume that the cost of ensuring all who are being granted sheltered, or housing, is the same as that of a service made available to prospectors. I thought it was the highest. Ministers share much of my concerns. But in the financial office's answer to asking why. paritaprevir Árnadóttir Kolbröndóttir for working on a welfare committee, the Ministry refuses to answer the main question, i.e. what the cost will be, pointing to the Department of Social Affairs. I can't see that this is a government law. I know that when a large service is given to all those who are granted asylums or housing clearances, probably one of the most affected and to the point of attendance at an asylum here, it has become a relatively six-fold higher than in Denmark and Norway. However, we have focused on this and have prided ourselves on taking a warm welcome to those who have even one. the right to provide financial support, social counseling, housing, education, play-school education, hobbies, health care, dentists, service interpretations, telephones, etc. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is it the opinion of a minister that there is no expense to multiply the number of people entitled to the financial support and service that we provide to those in need? Second: Tells you the highest. Minister that this will have no effect on the number of people who will come in excess of other countries at the same time as the rest of the North countries are trying to hinder the withdrawal and direct everyone into the fear-making system?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u4	A respectable president. It's easy to answer. If we increase our rights to be supportive, it will cost us money. I think we just need to face the fact that in this system in recent years, there has been a period of treatment, which I made that talker the other day, cost us quite a lot of money, i.e. Having so many in the long wait for a final outcome has cost us many billions each year. That's why I've been talking about us sharpening situations where we're supposed to be able to arrive at a rapid conclusion, the simple process to finish faster cases, which all the time were likely to end with rejection. We've opened too much of the system for charges that can slow things down and their final conclusions, and I think that's especially where we're different from other countries working on these issues on the basis of the Order of Dublin, that there are still others in the Icelandic system who have the possibility of reanimation and further opinions. This can result in very high costs. However, when it comes to the matters that we have written and that we need to consider them, we need to have some perspective on them and some opinion of the circumstances in which they live in the meantime. I think this discussion might be a little more specific, about what the change is. We can't have people here who just wander the streets without pay while they're waiting for their solutions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u5	President. It's all right to the highest. The secretary admits that this includes costs, but it must be tried to assess the costs while these changes are greatly affected. As the application progresses, it makes the system more difficult to cover applications and, therefore, the wait may be longer and the cost will increase as well. So it is very strange - in view of the highest. The minister admits that there are defects, that are not working and that it has not been solved so far - that governments should not first fix the defects, but attack measures that are falling toward more problems, get even more attention, especially when these things happen at the same time as other North countries are trying to stop the trust attendances and direct refugees, the refugees, in the trafficist system. At the same time, we are going the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u6	A respectable president. I can truly say that it is not good luck to be in charge of this class to have the lowest thresholds for taking a case for observation, receiving support during observation, having more accuses than others, etc. Whether this leads to a specialised approach in these topics that the number of applications was more than proportionate elsewhere, I don't know. But for the council, there has been a bill from the Minister of Justice, unregistered for more than one assembly, which included. is intended to take care of these matters so that faster results can be made.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u7	A respectable president. Recently, a report on the optimal pensioner was published by Stefán Ólafsson and Stefán Andri Stefánsson. It is of great interest to compare the results of the press with the government's claims on the social security system. Secretarys of the government have repeatedly said that income restrictions could not be further reduced because funding is needed to help those who have had less money than their hands. On the other hand, the authors of the report stated that non-indepth insurance pensions cannot pay the cost of living up to the cost of living. Reports show the calculated government consumer standards and estimated a modest amount of rent, since housing costs are not included in the consumer policy. According to this calculation, the cost of living as a single 353,000 kr. per month. So, according to a statement by the president's permission: ▪ A TR - maximum pensioner, but nothing else in income, pays about $50,000 a month on income tax, and there will be $22,466 for provisional income. This means that every month the subject lacks about $70,000 to achieve the above government stratosphere. Even if the relevant pensioner was a microchip with full ages of supplementation ($50,000, U.S.), it is not sufficient to bring him/her up for the staging point. To make ends meet, then, pensioners need to find an exceptionally low - cost housing or access to food supplies. So I ask the highest. Minister: Why doesn't non-involved pensions of social security depend on basics? That takes 70,000 bucks. and up to 140,000 bucks. If the worst lays, which have more than 200,000 a month after tax, are taken into account. It's nothing but grueling, starving, and completely hopeless to live like this. Why have the right efforts to survive without people starving and having to live in unauthorized apartments and inappropriate housing and children have not yet been calculated?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u8	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this inquiry. The report was discussed in a fine language conference conducted yesterday, and there is much interesting in the report and a number of guides that we can use for the current work that has been going on and will do so. Right away. One senator asks: "Why have not more been done in the matter of microenergy pensioners when it comes to raising basic progress and raising financial contributions to this category? " A senator as well as the person here says when it comes to improving this group's terms is fundamental that we can make certain system changes on the system as well. He himself has described it, and I agree with him, that the system has become increasingly complex and divided between individual categories, etc. they are difficult to understand. That is why we have emphasized the improvement of the system as well as the improvements. But I also think that sounds like it. A senator as if nothing had been done during this terms, and that is simply wrong because of the present state of state. The government has added funding to the system. We've put 4 billion in the new budget. We've set up funding for building an apartment building, dental expenses, tax system changes; anything aimed at reaching this group. But at the same time as we add to a new system, and that is why we have to reduce the rate of disability. All these figures need to be examined in this context. We may only be doing so now with the increase in rehabilitation but not in disability rates because there are a lot of people in the Icelandic community that we want to help keep going. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It is also essential that we go up to those who, unfortunately, need to take advantage of the community's safety net through a biofuel.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u9	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. Iceland has a world record of failure and it's being added to the system. But if you add to the system, there's only some other place that's not going to work. Perhaps the most surprising thing is that the Minister's answers reveal a total of 5 billion impairments per year in the history of this government, 20 billion overall. I also ask, because he did not answer: "Why on earth is the right strategist not calculated? Why do you not want to have the right strategist that could prevent people from starving? Shouldn't we at least? to increase the advance of social security temporarily, increase the payoffs so that people can make ends meet during work, start reorganizing the system which we agree is a faulty butt-slap man;
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u10	A respectable president. I think there may be a bit of a stairway to talk about the system being a failure. The system has been making many changes over the years and decades that have not been made by bad thinking, whether it has been by the current government or by those who have previously been in control. [[Up front.]] But already it is. A senator will also talk about losing them. We must also examine real - life increases in payment through the system to micro-energy pensioners, the real pay of less than 50 billion in four to five years to less than 80 billion. Because the senator was taking all the reduced money and how it had grown, it would be honest for the senator also to consider the real growth, almost doubled in the price of each year to the Party. It's gonna show us that the system's gonna catch up. Do adjustments need to be made? Is there a need for a system change? [[The president calls.]] Yes, I do, and I do and what. A senator agrees, and I have previously described my disappointments in the absence of an agreement over this terms. [[The president calls.]] But I think we're gonna do what. A senator will agree that these adjustments need to be made. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u11	Mr. President. Let's go over this for a minute. 900 children in Pediatrics, 150 children on a waiting list, up to an eight-month waiting period. 340 children in the waiting lists of state analyses and counselling centres treating children with severe developmental impairment. It is a period of up to 24 months that has grown on the watch of this government. 600 children on the waiting list at the third key agency, treating sick children, development and behavioral status. Up to an 18-month waiting period where this government's watch has also been extended. 9% of young people in Iceland have tried suicide. This indicates that in 22 schoolchildren, two students attempted suicide. A Dr. BULG medical doctor recently said that high suicide rates in children are not random but long - term consequences for the prevention and failure of the system. Mr. President. Why isn't the whole community discussing these terrifying numbers? Yet, these children's institutions are dealing with a lack of money, but they are not expensive. The cost of every child's care at the BUGL Department is less than a tenth of what we put in our embassy. The analysis and counseling centre costs less than one tenth of the official subsidies of bovine breeding and Development and behavioral standards cost less than Iceland's Land Covers. You're going to tell me we can do no better? The children on hold are a disgrace and a disgrace, and while hundreds of children are on the waiting list on the watch of this government, the government cannot boast of being a child-friendly government. Why do I ask the first chief of the children's affairs of Iceland what are you going to do about it? [[The president calls.]] Aren't you worried about children on the list?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u12	The president reminds them to direct their case to the president, not to address the minister directly.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u13	A respectable president. The answer to ask why. A senator is simply: Yes. Still, we need to find out what the situation is. When it comes to forming the institution under the Minister here, which is the diagnostic and counseling center, we've added 80 million. K. there in a special budget. We've been working on the lists there. This is not only a financial problem, it is also a challenge for a designer, and there is a particular change that needs to occur when it comes to the building blocks of these institutions. Then, when it comes to waiting in the institutions below the highest level. The Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Social Affairs have taken certain diagnostics, how to intervene and shorten them. But funding hasn't come in there in the same way that we've been able to install into the diagnostic and counseling centre. However, it is also important to remember that we are going into the biggest system changes in the affairs of children that have been attacked in Icelandic society. A major bill is en route to the council and arriving at 2nd. Part of it is that we are moving the ministry earlier into the system. All the options as easily as possible. There are third measures that we have come up with because we haven't done well enough in the first and second stages, they just haven't existed. So, with this, and the analysis is behind it, we're going to put 2 billion a year into the system change, automatically reducing the need for a third-degree resort. It is the children who have come to the edge of the cliff, which is in the third line of resolution. We've been adding in there. We're going to have to keep adding money in there. I'll share my concerns with you. A senator, but we also need to realize that the system change we are under attack to some extent will ensure that it will reduce in these third measures. [[The president calls.]] We've been doing pretty bad when it comes to saving children sooner, and that's why we have a waiting list for this third-grade resort. They shouldn't have to go there, all these children.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u14	Mr. President. I know it's the highest. Ministers mean well, but as long as the waiting lists are extending, something is wrong, and so is in an institution that is under the highest pressure. Minister, State Diagnosis and Advisor. The waiting lists haven't been getting shorter. That some institutions are being heard by the Ministry of Health, children on a waiting list just don't matter. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] It doesn't matter if it's responsible. Minister of Svandís Svavarsdóttir or Ásmundur Einar Daðason's son. Children on a waiting list, it's just not supposed to pass. I know that ahead there are system changes, but waiting lists are the nature of the case as a result of financial and stress. We can solve it, we have the resources, and we must be able to do it. We all agree on that. But leave the money with them. We've got a financial plan open. Why don't we finish this once and for all? There's an 80% increase in hospitalisations between years. Can you imagine, 80%? These three key institutions are yelling at us: " Give us more money, then we can work on these lists. ' I repeat, we have one juvenile minister, and that's the highest. Minister. Get a hold of yourself, chief. Minister, and wipe out this waiting list for children. [[The president calls.]] We need to put the mental health of children first, and all of us must agree on this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u15	A respectable president. As I said before, funding for the analystic centre has increased by 80 million by special funding. The government put 600 million people in touch with Covid to give special attention to young people and their emotional health. Like I said before what? A senator is attacking the biggest system changes that have been made in the affairs of children. They will, in part, be on these lists. We have not been on the move as a community in helping children and families until necessary. The political landscape has always been focusy on the third resort because we have not been doing so in the first and second stages. These institutions, the people working for them, the people working in these sectors, have also been calling for the other system change. So I say, "Yes, we're going to have to take on the third degree of deliberation mentioned there," but we also need to put the funds in the first and second degree resources. [[The president calls.]] That's what we're doing. 2 billion a year, it is the largest single investment in the welfare of children as the present government, in cooperation with all political parties at the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]] So I'm incredibly proud of it, and I hope these bills will be approved here so that they can be worked out. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u16	President. At the beginning of the season, there was an attempt to establish a global improvement in the social security system. It was a work-in basis assessment. As a result, a cent changed against a dollar in a dollar's cash - cut cut. There were 4 billion who were hung up as such a yellow root in order to review their skills, and nothing else has happened since then. Now I wonder, especially as a result of what i ask. paritaprevir Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson: Why aren't they obeying social security laws? It states very clearly that social insurance spending should be increased compared to inflation or, if more pay development is achieved, compared with pay development. Here we are dealing with the truth, however, that this trend has been lower than pay development and over the last 20 years there is 56%, i.e. If social security bills had followed pay development then the current number would be 56% higher, which explains these figures that have been transferred to unsubstantiated queries earlier. This is the exact missing number. During this terms, this decrease, this difference, is 5.7%. This literally means that one increase in one year's pay will disappear for this group. Everyone else gets pay raise every year based on biographies, etc., except those with social security. They have to skip one year every term. That's the situation. So I wondered, " What does the government want to do about it? ' At the end of the season, there's no results in exactly this, and we're standing up with even more of a heart attack, it's always the same. [[The president calls.]] What's to be done?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u17	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. The Senator here traced it to us that we had made certain changes during the season for the 4 billion who have been available, who were not thought to be yellowing into that system, but to take the step that was thought to take with the simple system, i.e. to simplify and increase its transparency. The amount of money spent could benefit from the system changes needed to take place. I have felt that the doubts we had at the time, the doubts we had, the things we had not met, the things we needed to resolve, and the better soil to be formed. So I think it just took a little longer for this system change to happen. Then the increase in the seminary and how it is related to prices, pay development, and so forth has become a tradition of how it is done. As the senator describes, this does not always follow a bargain. Rather, it follows in a certain way. Instead of continuing to challenge this system, which was used at the Semitic Convention yesterday, I think the system changes need to be carried out at the same time. We're always talking about improving and stopping here and there, but we need to get this system change. The basis for adding to the seminar is that we can reduce the incidence of disability and that is to succeed. More people are being rehabilitated now than they have been, and only to reduce growth in biofuels. [[The president calls.]] That's what we want. We want to help people stay in a job market. [[The president calls.]] This is the prerequisite for adding to the seminary, which is the intention of the present government to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u18	A respectable president. You see, this tradition is really weird. As long as we can't get a system change, we're on purpose to let the insurance bills go down. That has happened years after 20 years. If the pension was under social insurance law, at least pay development, we wouldn't be talking about the missing money, they'd already be in the system, and the extension would be the one being called for. Why not stop this tradition that's tried to cut the cost of a community of public insurance and simply follow the spirit of the law there, even the letter of the law, that citizens of public insurance will follow the law, with pay?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u19	A respectable president. I traced it here in inquiry at another time. A candidate earlier in this question period to the prerequisite or key when it comes to increasing to the jury - we have increased about 4 billion in this ideal period. We need to consider the overall expansion of the problem group. [[Up front.]] A respectable president. [[Up front.]] Now I'm answering him. Senator. Over the last four to five years, the total amount of money per year is almost doubled. We have been worried about this because there is a real danger. As we look at these developments for the future, we must intervene, and we are doing it now. The system modification that was talking about here was to do the same. So when it comes to the fact that nothing has been done for the group - we've spent it in this way. The situation in 2016 was that at that time, at the end of the 2016 season, there are 4,45,550 billion for the seminary, now nearly 80 billion for each year's price, and it's defending the situation. [[The president calls.]] However, it is also important that we succeed in taking these steps, and we succeed when we go into this system change and at the same time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u20	A respectable president. I think it's reason to continue a discussion about the activities of the Samaritan guerrillas, a discussion of their ideas on how they can influence the outcome of Iceland's President Society and other activities that have been observed in the daylight of the last few days. This is what I think needs to be discussed here simply because the media situation is mirrored on the position of democracy in each community. One thing is that powerful forces try to influence the media, as Samherji does and, in fact, how they do it. This they do, not by sharing in open discussion themselves, but by trying to enter the press club in an unnatural way and to be involved in the work of the Society. That's serious. Last night, a member of the Independence Party was sitting in Kashlight, where he realized that there was nothing to do with Samherja's work. He spoke of guerrilla action as opinions. Of course, this issue is not about freedom of opinion but about how interest groups use their power in an effort to exert unnatural influence in the community behind the scenes. Impliciting these actions and practices of the whole context is dangerous, something like saying, for example. if you are under attack or persecution that there are two aspects of the case. This is not the case. We've got people here. We've got people here. We've got people here. The machine is the media in the country, but at the same time the whole population. Opinions and attacks are not related. This paints a dark picture. But because of words, the highest. I'd like to ask him now because the answer matters, if it's definitely not so that the head of the Independence Party sees the context of this operation, if he doesn't see the nature of these actions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u21	A respectable president. I believe it's a serious matter if an enterprise believes that it is in the position of being able to participate in the presidency of the press or in other such matters, in politics, or in other places. We'll go to the Independence Party to hold a re-election. We'll let all platoons in. This prevents humans from putting undue pressure on themselves unless they have no control over the amount of money placed in a single bid. I've expressed myself... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u22	I'd like men to stop conversation in side doors.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u23	I've been telling myself that I believe that this case has gone very far. I'm not going to be here at the Senate Hall to tell you what. A senator says how I feel about what other members of the Independence Party say. There's plenty of opportunity for what's happened. I don't know where that discussion is best at home. But I'm not looking at the Spotlight Show and I'm not here today to make up last night's news or some interview show on TV. I'm here as secretary of finance, and I've made a very clear statement that I believe that Samherji has dealt with this situation with his own interference.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u24	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. The question objected to his own position in connection with the comments of a senator of his council. It is of interest to note that in this context, he is using a reagent, as that is, of course, prior to each Samhera's approach to a reagent in the Independence category. In this context, I wanted to mention also the recent words of the bank manager who drew a lot of attention, perhaps not because he was giving us a new truth there, but he said what a lot of people have thought, with the permission of a president: A large part of Iceland is controlled by interest groups, and dealing with them is a major matter. These words have been referred to here before a new theme comes into play in view of the latest reports of the action of this guerrilla team. In this light, it is intriguing to consider the proposal for a new resource, a law that does not guarantee temporary use or natural price, and you ask yourself: " What interests are being cared for by that requirement? Of course, the public's foremost appeal is silent. [[The president calls.]] Is it set up to protect the national property of the people or the national property of the few?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u25	A respectable president. I mean, about the water main, it's a hell of a job. It's a national advantage that the water export is successful, that there's a lot of value coming from the resource. That's very important. A new report published by the marine emissary shows that, in comparison with countries, Iceland stands in front of us, and its efforts are unafraid but unafraid. The richness of this directive protects the interest that no one can obtain permanent possession of common resources. That's clear. That's what 1st will do. the management process of fishing, being transferred into the constitution with the proposal now available for the council from the prime minister. Hv. A senator argues that there will be no protection except for temporary permission. But they may be temporary and unrepeatable. That's really the explanation for what it's calling after, and it's traced really well on the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u26	Mr. President. Here we will discuss a financial plan for the 2022◯226. The budget is submitted now when the economic impact of the pandemic is becoming clearer than when we agreed to a common financial policy here at the Senate Hall in December. What may surprise you the most about financial agenda now is that only numbers have been updated as compared to what is being done in the Habitat economy. There is, in fact, no change in economic, significant, or material changes, even though it has been completed about six months since its release and approved by the council. There are news, disappointments. It would have been possible to use this six - half - year period to learn and analyze and update financial programs in a way that is becoming clearer. It would also have been possible to seize this opportunity and make better use of it than was expected by the first programme to improve things in our society that we truly need to improve by means of specific measures. I mean, President, the health system, the areas that have been worst throughout the pandemic. More bold measures could have been taken to combat increasing inequality and support groups, which, according to a recent test of BSRB and ASI, suffer a material shortage as a result of the unemployment and economic impact of the pandemic. Unfortunately, there are no improvements to social security, unemployment insurance, interest benefits, housing, child support, or maternity payments that increase according to pay. As a result, a political decision is made to continue inexorably. Then it's good for the Iceland government to show off the cards, that this is a common policy and a vision to 2026. We'll have it here in black and white in front of us. Mr. President. I mentioned our systems, our health systems, our social security systems, our housing benefits, our children's settlements, and our delivery payments. But the big problem we now have is unemployment and getting people to work. There should be priorities here in this financial program, that we would see clear evidence of the government's will. You see, since the last plan, the prospects for the money have improved. Last year, the state's budget was about 70 billion less than expected and is now expected to be less than 10.2% of gross domestic product. It also means that there is a need for full - time employment, as well as for this better living, but the last plan would have been expected to have been a song here and now to create jobs and put the money and, of course, of course, to distribute the stocks that are going down and balance the game. As the financial adviser points out, Mr. President, in the wake of the crowning virus epidemic, we all had a collapse in one industry, the travel service, which is so important to us all. Now that the growth of tourism is reused to get us out of this economic situation, there is no policy of rebuilding the article from sustainable and climate standards so necessary in the restoration of both the economic and the economic conditions of this country, but not least the restoration of the tourism services. We can hardly, and this opinion supports experts, and we can go to the exact same location when it comes to the tourism service, the economic situation, and the unsatisfactory growth in the article that has been warned of during the past few years. It was so clear in the financial breakdown we've been dealing with now for the past one and a half years how much we were relying on this one article and how much we have to distribute our energy, increase the eggs in the basket, and do not rely on travel services as much as we do. It is also necessary to build up a business sector that is more valuable with intelligent people, creative branches, green industry, and therefore the government should immediately call on the table, and should, of course, be done, unions and the professional organisations to work together on professional policy for the coming years to get us out of this professional crisis in conversation and cooperation and with sustainable guidance. In this way, we would also contribute to more good jobs and economic growth when it comes to professional policy, education, and tax policy to work together and have a clear view of the future. Long-term lack of work, Mr. President, is a disaster, and so we should use the economy and work against unemployment, support the economy, defend the well - being, and face the loss of income while working between jobs. We must also give young people the opportunity to use their education here. In this context, Mr. President, I'd like to mention that after the 2008 financial crisis, it was highly emphasised, blessed, to educate people out of the crisis. Sadly, though, there was a lack of employment opportunities for educated people in the other part of the world. It is now this time that our systems are human work, as was being done in unsubstantiated question-time earlier, and they testify to political vision and political desire to have our systems work together, that our education systems work together with professional policy, that we make good jobs for academics and career opportunities that are attractive and attractive for young people, so we don't lose them. As a result, for the Covid-19 pandemic, the most unemployment rate in a college education group was the case. And what does that tell us? Yes, it tells us that people were learning but then did not get a job that would be appropriate, not in line with their education. It just doesn't work out, Mr. President. Then the jobseekers and their families need to be handled with a more reasonable advance, a longer period of improvement, and a vigorous workforce. It is important that we keep our minds fixed on the situations that exist today, that we do not wait or form groups of work, etc. Rather, let us embrace these groups now. We have a financial plan, we have prospects that are blessedly better than expected, and we are supposed to use it. Work needs to be created, invested in wood and structure, and children's families need to be cared for and kept on working hard to deal with. The Economic Standards report that after five years, some 10,000 people will be out of work, far beyond the average of the last decades. This is mentioned in the financial program that we discuss here, but there are no new measures or additional investment projects or anything else to meet the challenge. That is what we need to do. It discusses a systematic problem so called the underlying problem, which is a significant increase in salary levels over production. What's that supposed to mean, Mr. President? It speaks under the rose of the lowest wage in the country and of the evil. I'm going to spin myself into a new-born budget. They were up-to-date and slightly increased in the next year's schedule, but they immediately decline and then decrease by 26% and 34% in five years, respectively. From the beginning of the reign of Sigmundur Davíð Gunnler's Gunnlaugsson, financial contributions to the public part of innovation have declined and can be read in the reference to the law of transport, industrial, and innovation to the detriment of the New Creation Centre of Iceland. This, Mr. President, does not rhyme with beautiful words and beautiful speeches on the importance of innovation to get us out of the economic depression we are in because of the pandemic. If we want to do good with the innovation factor, we need to strengthen the official section of innovation. What is the official part of innovation? Yes, there are research and analysis, public institutions and universities. It is called for increased funding for innovation, and it takes more than two years to meet these requirements and needs. As soon as we put money in the private part of innovation, we must bring in the official part. It benefits our education system, creating skills, knowledge, and experience into our education systems and supporting the institutions we want to be strong when it comes to innovation. But innovation is the long run out of this problem, and we must also focus on the current race, which is immediate action. There are immediate steps to get people to work, starting young people, to look out for those who have spent more than a year on unemployment benefits and to protect our vulnerable communities. It's an expense for society to have people in our society without long - term work. It is a health - and - health cost, but it is also a mental cost, i.e. Our community as a whole suffers because of being less active. Diversity and profit - making investments are the basis for growing valuables and increasing investments will play a major role in getting us out of the business crisis. Investors have been too small in recent years in spite of the marvelous promises of the government covenant. It will take all of us for a long time, if not corrected. A new report by the Industrial Association reports that the expected increase in public investment will little more than bite the cumulative maintenance need created after the last downturn. For the condition of the interior to be considered good, an even greater force must be put in public investments, and there is a need for 420 billion dollars. Invest them properly, Mr. President. It's a fun-looking look. It is not even successful in maintaining normal maintenance needs as outlined in the financial programme for the years to come. Thus, despite the vast investments of Reykjavík, which has led to a national public investment, we are actually looking forward to a reduction in public investment. Farmers in many countries who have trusted in their tourism also have an advantage. There is a very limited budget for investment, and it will bite these delicate areas right now and in the long run. Unfortunately, the government has not directly supported these rural communities in meeting their loss of income and in asking for more social services, making these rural communities much more difficult for their vast investments. Mr. President. I'd like to skate, where we're running out of time, to change the Union's budget to the next five years. But, of course, if the Conspiracy were to put out her own financial plans, it would look different. We suggest some very important adjustments in terms of the ideals and well - being of children, older people and desperate people, in changing climates, and in our generous addition to environmental and climate laws, but we also add to the general law enforcement and the support of tax recovery and competitiveness. We also propose funding proposals to work on the lists that have grown considerably because of Covid-19. Especially when it comes to mental - health services involving children, work must be done to eliminate the list of lists. There is no need for anything but action immediately. At the United Nations, we have proposed a principle of a righteous increase in pension, but we also offer suggestions on family support and child support. As we all know, child reforms in this country begin to be impaired as soon as pay has reached 351 levels. K. in a month, but we'll make some changes. I'd like to remind you that if Iceland is to be a child-friendly community, if we're to compare ourselves with the Norwegian nations around us when it comes to child-friendly communities, we, Mr. President, have to dress up in a book, and then we need to support more targeted and more with baby families. We also want to take a safe step toward child - care, financial support to children's families, and we also offer proposals for housing and growth, building payments for tenants, and changing the thresholds of the growth reform system so that our payments will be more useful to people under the mediums. Similarly, we contribute to increased financial support for health care. It has, as mentioned earlier, been a long wait. We propose a special budget at the home of the Hospital, as well as funding to shorten a waiting list for expert services and surgery that have increased between 2020 and 2021. Mental - health services are something we also need to do much more. Sadly, though, research and analysis have shown that in a pandemic, the nation's mental health has become worse, and it rhymes with the experience of other nations after this pandemic. We also contribute to the health institutions, which are the climate. Mr. President, I would like to point out that the UN Environment Commission has estimated that 2.5% of world production is needed annually to limit global warming to 1.5° C in the coming years at the average pre- industrial temperature. The next five to ten years are all that matters. It also matters just how we as nations and nations put forth effort to shoulder moral responsibility in climate for future generations. Mr. President. I'd like to call attention to the adjustment of the Group members of the United States to this financial program. We'd also like to do better with the police and police. All of this has to do with improving the financial strategy below so that we can care for all of our most vulnerable groups but also with the future challenges of climate and environment. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u27	Mr. President. It is welcome to talk only about the future, even though it is only for the next few years, instead of having to dwell on the reaction forever, as we may normally have to do in this year. However, for the next five years, we will discuss a financial programme and can be viewed as the common election policy of this government, which will survive after the election, and it must be watched as that. Indeed, it is a very good example of how important it is for the public to choose another kind of government in the country next time. The budget covers the year 2026, and it is a high - political document that accurately explains how governments plan to run society in the next term. What worries me most is the vision of quietness and even deterioration in the hall but also that, when it comes to building up after a recession, it is announced. During a pandemic situation, we need patience to grow out of this crisis so that it will not be ill - affected by individual groups. Moreover, we face extraordinary social changes, including some of them. Because of changes in technology, and that is why we too need to be bold and creative. But none of those things can be found in this piece of paper. At first, let us be clear that the financial plan of green socialism would look quite different. While the union will certainly offer adjustments in financial reforms, it is primarily intended to cover the bald spots in this program but its main features are not being declared. We in the Union would like and have proposed to speed up recruitment, increase workforce activity, defend survival security, and build up the foundation for a dynamic restoration. We believe that by temporarily contributing to companies and individuals, we are not merely meeting groups that have faced this crisis but, in the long run, are reducing economic costs. We simply want everyone to be in the best shape when they arrive on the channel for the restructuring this summer. The UN budget would also have to include new financial priorities and detailed measures on how we want to build up a society where all children get equal opportunities and can grow up in a more stable state between work and personal life as well as the public would have access to safe housing, health services and education systems regardless of their economic status and housing. In addition, we'd like to think that it would be necessary to engage in a systematic action in complex systems so that the systems are for the people and the people aren't for the system. We also believe that it is necessary to take decisive and safe steps to improve the situation of the poor, the elderly, and the children's families, in other words, to ensure a more righteous exchange of goods, including the need to improve the situation. with a tax system that supports low and intermediate groups but does not attract rich people as many of the changes we see today have done. We also need to be bold and take action to increase the value of the land, to increase the support of the economy, to reduce fluctuations, and to build them up so that we will experience as little shock as possible if something strikes. Therefore, a much more purposeful way of supporting innovation and intelligent development is to ensure that people have access to a variety of training and education, which is really meant by this course, to others'bright eyes for the future, but also are very aware of what it involves. In this regard, we also need to be much more aware of the inevitable changes in the workforce associated with the technological revolution and increased internationalization and, of course, the climate crisis. We believe Iceland should assign its leadership to countries in terms of climate pressure, not to dwindling on the average we see around us. And we are in a position to do so. There are so many things in this country that enable us to do what is more complex in larger and larger countries. In other words, we would like to respond to the situation now, in contrast with the government that proclaims cutting, by building up and investing in the infrastructure and welfare system. We want priorities for the sake of public interest, not personal interest, and we want to use equal policy as a kind of creation to reduce inequities, wherever it may be found, instead of to remain in a calm place and go to the future rather than to live in the past. Let us discuss only the contents of this financial program and what it tells us about the policy of the government of the left green, independent party and forward group until the next five years. We have all come to realize how important the public health and welfare systems are in recent years, and rarely have we lived up to conditions where the value of the consumption, the State's values, and the values of the government in service to the people of the land have been more important. However, the government plans to reduce the financial support of these infrastructures just to show in three, four years some specific proportions, some math symbols, some formula. The government calls this tens of millions of ideas their practical steps. Of course, doing so is just to dust people's eyes. Let us be clear about what the requisite measures mean: They are called in Icelandic cuttings. It cannot be said that the important infrastructures will suffer such economic management for a long time at the relevant cost to the public in the country. The infrastructures that have been loaded up will accumulate more rapidly. Investments have not been so successful, such as rough. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brylfóttir mentioned earlier. We cannot accept the failure of the government's plans for this team, whether it comes to the road and transportation system or to the health, education and welfare system. Then it is surprising and incredibly sad that the government seems to be accepting historic unemployment. They are predicting an age of some 6,97% unemployment, far above the average of many decades back into the past. Let us realize that increasing and chronic unemployment is not just a problem in the community, although it is most difficult to deal with individuals, their children, and their homes. You see, continuing in a nation's unemployment level will cost a fortune of enormous sums of money. In this case, we're talking about 40 billion bucks. Each year, the period that is nearly doubled in terms of this pandemic. It hurts from the individual, and it hurts to the driving force of professional life, and it is pathetic when it comes to a stable and prosperous economic regime. That's at least a sample of the state's budget and shows that despite the highest value. The secretary of finance is making himself quite wide and speaking as if he alone in this room has knowledge of economic matters, of course, it's not that way, and I think people must be seeing through it. So now our primary objective must be to increase the effectiveness of people and to reduce the cost of unemployment from society. It has to be done for the people, they have to do it for their jobs and they have to do it for the economy of the country and for future generations. But what may be most serious about this document, Mr. President, is that it is being made up of the political decision, not one class or two groups, but three categories, to promote the inequities of the country, which has increased in the crown viral crisis, but also when it comes to senile and microenergy pensioners who have not followed pay-up. There have been no unemployment benefits either; nor have there been transfers to the homes; child support, maternity payments, or housing support. All of this is being placed in place, and this is just the opposite of the ones the Conspiracy would leave, and I want to believe in my best days that we would have support from at least Two of the government party. The poor and the elderly have simply looked at the gap between them and the pay markets every year for all this terms and actually longer. And now the government, who says, presents a plan to establish and not detract the fence. I'm sure it's a promise to bring in the next fall. Mr. President. You can't go over everything in a 20 - minute talk on the financial or financial budget, but I don't think we can just skip the health system that follows one more trip and that despite perhaps being the biggest player on that successful path despite everything we've been going through this past year. We look back and forth in view that it is heading for the Hall of the Land Hospital, which does not have the ball volume to make up a waiting list. Also, enough money for mental - health services is not expected, despite the fact that 11,000 people are waiting for mental - health services at Land Hospital and 130 children and teenagers are waiting for a BUGL service. This is not something we can let go of weeders. We can't allow the highest power. The secretary of finance is so concerned with staging a number of cases after two or three years that he will use the basics that we share and that, as the nation has repeated many surveys for many years, it is most important in Icelandic society. The last point I'm going to discuss with these business teams is a home. Farming is a basic need for everyone, and especially in such countries as Iceland, where weather ends. Of course, houses are not an amazing thing in themselves, that is, a box of stone or wood or something else. But it's a setting of things called home, and it's the homes that may be the foundation of our community. It is not enough to make sure that people always have a roof over their heads. People need to be secure above their heads so that they do not have to move on to the unsecured markets back and forth, tearing children at regular intervals between school districts and other such. The Icelandic housing market is too swingy, it is too dependent on market whims. Last year is no exception. Real value has increased by 14%. I heard statistics from the Bank of Iceland that predicted a 20% rise in the years to come. Under these circumstances, the government needs to spit into the palms of the hands and to use some sort of surveillance, government items in the setting of structure and housing support, not just any injections that rush into the prices and run up prices every few years, but ensure long - term housing facilities, as in other important circumstances, e.g. Like the Icelandic crown's gang, where the Secret Bank with its members buys and trades to keep it stable. This needs to be done with housing too. The market needs to be established in some way so as not to become a situation like this, where people may be inviting two, three, four million higher in housing than the next man, who makes a sprout that no one is making, who immediately shepherds all the raise and becomes burdensome for families. There we can do much better. During this time in conditions where weather conditions make it difficult for the government to build because of the high financial costs of the crown, due to the surrogacy of housing, the government will allow themselves to put down a new creation center and thus one of the official construction research on the land without guaranteeing that anything will take place instead. The union feels the need to speed up building and strengthen the general housing system substantially, raise housing support to families, and make large contributions for research and development and construction research at the construction site. But we need this to find a way that I think we can all be able to get together in this room in order to run the market so that it stays in place. It's easier to do this in this group than in many others because we have sound warnings. We know what the trend has been in recent decades in our neighboring countries, who are even more concerned about what is likely to be common for many people in each housing unit. There are uncertainty factors, such as travel services and other things, but that is how it will always be. But at least is this predictable of the fact that it is not an excuse to control this group much better than it is. Finally, it seems that the government either does not recognize the future, has a very different view of the future, or does not have enough creative power and courage to cope with the future. There is not enough money to seize the opportunities for technology change. We are experiencing marvelous changes in society caused by them. It can be too bad if we let go of our anger. However, we can use the modern technological changes to increase production, which is extremely important when fewer and fewer hands are relatively dependent on valuables. We can reduce the eco-efficiency by taking advantage of it, building an incentive for technological changes that result in less and more wastefulness. We can also use them to reduce inequities, but they can easily increase at faster speed than ever before, and the budget goes on even fewer when the workforce is changing. This should be one of the big cases of every government today. I suppose there are many forward-minded governments who are very concerned about this. I mentioned that one of the things technology changes can do is reduce ecosystems. This brings us to climate issues, which, of course, are all over the world, except for perhaps Brazil and some other places. Let us be prepared that the markets alone will not solve the climate crisis. This applies equally to their efforts to reduce greenhouse gases, to bind or to dispose of carbon gases. For Iceland to be successful in green - building greenhouse gas emissions, the government needs to take the initiative and lead the way, certainly in cooperation with individuals, communities and businesses, but it has to be the guardian on this route. Hence, we need to take much clearer measures, be more ambitious, including. with increased funding, but we also need to focus more on the intelligent industry and support the economy. We Icelanders must not be so impatient about not doing this because we know it will take 10 years, 15 years, 20 years. This is the only way forward, and we really have to increase the amount of it. I mentioned it earlier, because the time has come to be over, that investments in infrastructure have been too small in recent years and it will take on us for a long time if things don't go right. Part of the problem is that the government put together a project that we knew would take time to get on. Rather, she should have directed the money to a local partner who was ready for an assignment. But I restate on the fact that the Conspiracy had produced a financial program that looked quite different from this one. We will, however, try to hide the bald spot on this one by creating an adjustment form that I hope will be appreciated. But I look forward to a year when the Conspiracy puts in its financial plans. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u28	President. I just wanted to review some changes made by the United States, especially in the environment. There are 5 billion more on earth. I studied the environment and the financial data you see in the budget, but box 11 discusses how sources have developed to the environment in the history of this government and how they are expected in a financial programme. An average of about 10 billion a year in this financial program is expected to achieve the previous government policy by 40% decomposition. However, this policy has just been updated to 55%, and in order to achieve that recession, the government contributes to a further 1 billion. It is 1 billion to reach 15% contractions, 10 billion to achieve 40% contractions. I went over it with what I had. paritaprevir The Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter's farm yesterday did not completely understand how this problem works, for according to government financial law, we should begin with the most efficient and cheapest projects that will result in our greatest success. And obviously, we should start with a project where we can reach 15% contractions by $1 billion a.m., that would be awesome, but we wouldn't start with 40% contractions for 10 billion. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament sees how the Conspiracy envisions to achieve this goal of 5 billion. Is that enough money, or what's the plan behind the United States?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u29	Mr. President. Thank you for your excellent question. No, I think I have to accept that this is not enough money. I also stressed in my speech that we were trying to cover the bald spot on the head of the financial program, not on a whole plan. I think that there must be a much more focused, more efficient and ambitious way of passing through the terms of a climatic period than has been done for this highest level of activity. Environment Minister. It's interesting what's in the question of why. A senator said that it would have been wise to place the most emphasis on what really brings the largest amount of emissions for the smallest coin. Where's that job at the Ministry? Where have we seen an overview of how this has been progressively considered? I think that even though it was improved -- even though it was, I say -- and if they are impressed by a high percentage of nothing, then the numbers that go into this are so incredibly low. The United Nations Interpretation Committee on Climates has estimated that every year 2.5% of world production is required for climate. I imagine we're not on a boat there, now we don't talk about a nation that is actually more consumer than most if not all nations of the world. So no, these 5 billion will definitely not do, but we've already set it up. This is a high number, there are many things to do for her, and it is, of course, a reminder to the government that the problem is underestimated.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u30	A respectable president. You should not forget that the projects that must be carried out are projects for a sustainable future, and the project is enormously valuable, so I do not view it as an expense to contribute to this money. I may have come up here mostly because of what. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir complained yesterday that Pirates and the United States didn't have the same number, there'd be some bullshit between us. But like a dog. A senator reviewed them as a guide to what is needed and a plan to do so. The plan I did was very optimistic. Piranians contribute 4 billion, and I simply watch that there are 10 billion each year on average to achieve 40% results, meaning about 4 billion per cent. But then we have 1 billion for 15%. It doesn't fit. Suppose that it takes 10 billion a year to achieve a 40% contraction. If you're right, you'd have to at least this to achieve the same contractions, which is said to be 1 billion per 4%. I suppose it's harder to reach these contractions for the same capital, more difficult projects, more expensive projects for less results. So I assume a billion reach about 3% in contractions, not 4%. If you're going to get 15%, it's 4 billion bucks. 'Cause it's already proposed 1 billion, it's 4 plus 1, so it's a total of 5 billion for the 15% contractions. This is just what is missing according to the plan of action based on the calculation and the basis, not necessarily what is enough, nor does it indicate the benefits of the project being assigned to achieve this success.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u31	Mr. President. This is very interesting. I must now admit that when I was at the top of my numbers, I was losing my thread, and we're comparing here with a senator who was passing through the science department and the other from sociology department. But I think we can work something out, and that, of course, shows Pirata and the United States suggestions, maybe we're not thinking this other way. But I thought it was interesting. A senator speaks of this as not cost. This is future savings. That's just the way it is to look at it. Just like in the economy. Extensive measures, which the government calls as cutting, are, in fact, more expensive for society to come, just as allowing 6% unemployment to be a long - term botanist for the future is more expensive for society. I find that even our most skilled economists and economic experts sometimes fall into the trap of just looking at the short - term effects. That's how it sounded, e.g. The bank manager recently said that one of the spiral's reasons today at the housing market would be how the capital had decided to build up and densely built rather than to spread the inhabited earth all over keppa, perhaps reflecting on the responsibility for not setting up some conditions along with growth reductions and to someone else. The building plans of the capital are just a fine example of how to save for the future, not just for individuals and families who can save their private car, not just because they have to lay less tunes and fewer streets and raise smaller weights, but when the climate is due they also save so much. That's how we're supposed to think. We're supposed to be thinking long-term, not short-term like our present government.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u32	Mr. President. I will, in my short talk, not only on the few points that are relevant to the financial program now under consideration, the financial programme of this government for the year 2022◯26, which is uncertain to be worthy of its execution. The plan estimated that in 2023, the cut-offs and tax increases will begin at the foretold date of a unemployment rate of 6,97%. However, the responsible route, the way we in the United States want to go, is about not taking measures too seriously too soon. We want to allow space and to create peace regarding how to divide income and harvest, how to distribute the burdens that fall on individuals, and how everyone sees who carry them with the highest weight, though the governments compromise their eyes or at least when this happens, draw your eye into your scrotum. There have been no changes in the standards of health care and other government practices. Reservation requirements are similar to cuts, especially in institutions that have been neglected in recent years. During difficult times in the health system and with increased exposure to pandemics and changes in national age, maintenance is required. In 2022, 2% of the public and 0.5% of health institutions, aging institutions and schools are adopted, and 1% of the general staff are held in 2023,226. The Group of Nations has proposed changes to the government's financial programme, with the most extensive suggestions on child families, employment, climate, health courting, mental health care, and the prospect of elderly and desperate people. On a few of these points, I would like to address this brief talk. The number of people in this country is growing. Much of these are in poor terms, and it is clear to governments. They do not have a new natural opportunity to correct the ideals to the same degree with those who draw forward to life in this country. It is tragic, it is a political decision, not an act of restraint. Thousands of pensioners are experiencing hardships, even to a total of 25 to show themselves to be afflicted with considerable low - income problems or outright poverty. Of course, it is because the maximum amount of social security money is just too low and since 2018 has gone down to the minimum wage in a general labour market. That's where we're going at least 5%, according to Professor Stefán Ólafsson's new report on the optimal pensioner. This is how we as superiors want to act in a purposeful, defined way. TR pensions should never go below 60% of the averages. This is the most common poverty target in Europe. Official pension expenditures in Iceland are unusually low compared to OECD countries and are also compared to the rest of the North countries. What explains this reality is excessive damage to the social security system. They must be pulled at once, not less than half. It may be considered how far this will go, and it may not be necessary to consider taking full advantage of it, for it may not be reasonable. Of course, the requirement is that every pensioner can survive his income, income that is above the poverty line. In general, the damage done to the disability - pensioner is somewhat worse than a pensioner, and that is not only what has to do with income and employment income. And speaking of the North American welfare model we'd like to connect ourselves to, Iceland stands totally out as far as major impairments are concerned. The government's gonna call it a good one. Their moral standards are no higher than those that they tolerate saving expenses with increased pension payments in the shelter of the pension fund. The cuts begin to bite off too little money from pension funds, and the payers of public security fall out quite a long time before the average income of society is reached. The trap of poverty is at hand. It is unlikely that it was the main objective of the establishment of the pension fund in 1969 to free the state from the pensions of the social security system and to quickly transfer them to the pension fund before they are making a full collection as promised and before removing the workers from public markets and from the public market. It's inhumane, and we in the United States want to make some changes. Mr. President. In the next few words, I allow me to give us a vision of the future in our later years. We missed it. A body member and chairman, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, during his discussion yesterday when he followed a committee party out of nowhere that would build 263 new homes for the elderly during the financial program period and said that they would be paid up to a full amount of money. That in itself is a grueling statement when we listen to it day after day, last in the media this morning, that operators feel it is impossible to support services on the same day's expenses. They would have to rise significantly, and it is thought that there would be a need to improve to the economy itself about 4.5 billion, or even 5 billion, so that homes could enjoy the normal functioning of the economy. It is not surprising that this system is in the fullest sense now bankrupt. In a financial program, the government will crush these facts, and the possibilities are maintained. There is no wasting of new thoughts or new ideologies regarding the ministry to older people. The construction of 263 new nurses is enough when other treatments are affected, if they are inexperienced, if they have not been examined. It's like peeing in your shoe, at best, a shorty scavenger. We are large survivors, far behind other neighboring nations in this regard. There's simply a chance for innovation. Like what? Harðardóttir In view of the case of Covid, the government has turned money into a business project in the past in the light of the situation. Some 85% of the jobs created in the implementation of government investments are men's work, says the report. Senator. It correctly points out that there is also a need for investment in health and education systems and the welfare system, which are traditional women's work and a great population, that we should increase the number of nurses, hospital staff, and all medical care by means of all means, this is our front person. Today, we have significant unemployment, and this is especially true of women. Here, a valuable force is ruined, and society is all for the immediate use of it. Mr. President. Aged people in today's world generally do not see their future in traditional long - term institutions, since it is the most costly option that governments can choose, and the government does not have the organization and the institutions that have been tolerated in Iceland for years. Older people are a diverse part of society and may be somewhat more variable than best - age people, with opinions, needs, and expectations comparable to those of other age groups. The big picture and the primary objective of making it possible for each individual to live in his own home for the rest of his life with personal support options that are appropriate and given by the individual's own will and security. Unfortunately, available resources have not been applied to a very limited extent, and there are many unscheduled opportunities. The government has not paid attention to this but needs to approach this group in a direct and completely new way. Jobs need to be spoken, not just words, not just one new group of workers. In order for this to be possible, however, a variety of agricultural options need to be an option. The dominant attitude among politicians has been to respond with simple solutions considered appropriate, established, one dominant solution for most people. The solutions, Mr. President, are certainly to be kept in mind over a long time ago. Governments have continued on the road without making any strong policy, and this needs to change, for much is at stake. In view of today's culture, the increase in the elderly, and their own attitudes, it is necessary to develop a parapolitic policy with the active participation of the elderly themselves in mind. The course must be cross-politic. It must be long-term. As to this, our temperate, long - term controversies proposal in the United States for a new policy of well - being for the elderly is involved. In many parts of the world, governments are expected to take initiative, set new priorities, and directly contribute to a larger supply of available and safe housing. This is the factor that weighs the weight when it comes to well - being and security during the course of your life, promising and upbuilding alternatives instead of a small room in the institution. The government has not been able to handle these issues, and there is nothing visible in the financial program that is now being discussed. Direct incentives, the direct approach, can include financial payment where appropriate. For some people, there is much at stake, to sound down years, and predators, which are not a successful solution for many. We've been putting these things to rest for many years, but there is a need to pause now and consider radical changes, since there is now an almost emergency. We heard yesterday in the news that the Landspians are in a lot of trouble and are in a very difficult situation and predictable in the months ahead. There's a lack of resources, a lack of character, and it's a graduation problem. We saw in the Morning Journal this morning that the nursing homes' problems are overwhelming. There's a lot of work to do. Mr. President. There is more progress than there is in the medical field. We are constantly discovered new ways to heal and treat our throats, large and small. There are long - term cures, post-traumatic rehabilitation, as well as the coping with health problems and various factors of advanced age, e.g. with chemotherapy. Health and welfare technology have advanced. This is important for older people who can take an active part in the changing process that has already become reality. We can create a security and a better feeling at home in our own environment, where there is room for flexible service and care according to events. This is what we're looking at in the United States. In this regard, of course, the challenges to professionals are quite significant, that we go to this project as a long - term project with an open mind and are ready to rethink what we have been developing in recent years and decades. Such development projects provide opportunities for interested and trained personnel or health professionals. The possibilities include flexible working hours, diverse environments, and exciting innovations in the use of tools and techniques, household specialisation, security systems, telecommunications, pharmacovigilance, use of hygiene systems, and the importance of social presence, which are extremely important and cannot be evaluated for financial value. This is also important in these times, for we see the ongoing shortage of qualified and good workers in aging services as well as in many areas of social service and show no more than the increase of the problem. So it is crucial to create a field of activity that is of interest to young people to deal with challenging modern - day challenges that give guidance to creative thinking. The changes proposed in this well - being policy include new emphasis and many challenges. There are obstacles that must be overcome, and mainly the bonds of the mind are. We must break off certain chains of thought, boldly address new challenges, but in a calm, balanced way. Mr. President. There are other factors that come to mind with regard to financial planning. Innuendo is thought - provoking material, especially in the light of the facts, that basic employment is highly dependent on powerful infrastructures, regardless of how you look at it. Take it, for example. Thousands of roads on top of thousands of tourists cover each year. I also mention growing large business roads, fish farming that rely on rapid ship transport or on flight. We've recently finished a handsome animal tunnel and sitting in a tunnel. No other project on the soil is set up, but if it should be well, we would need one of those projects, but it is not. This government has not provided a plan for the construction of a tunnel, and it's not a funeral plan, and it's a bad idea. Few investments in roadmaking are as powerful as stragglers, important for traffic security, short - tailed routes, and less pollution. This is referred to as the environmental discussion. Iceland, along with the rest of the North countries, intends to lead the fight against climate change. That's a defined goal. Thus, in the year 2040, ambitious implementation of carbon neutralisation plans is called, which can truly be said to reflect this role of leader, showing that the Icelandic government has an independent vision and wants to see in terms of law - binding goals for noncarbonization and reduction in emissions. What about goals? They would need to reflect the definition of carbon neutralising emissions, but it is clear that net emissions will need to be halved by 2030 if linear trends are to be followed toward a lack of carbon 2040. Mr. President. The bill to correct a change in the laws of loyalty is for the treatment of an environment and transport committee, often referred to as the bill for the recycling economy. The changes and costs of this effort, at least, must be taken into account in financial programmes. less time, especially for rural communities, but this law is expected to take effect at the beginning of 2020. It is important, therefore, that the changes introduced by the bill will be carefully and transparent in terms of the increase in rural expenses due to the category. These increase in expenses will lead to considerable expense for the population that is not likely to be available. Therefore, it is necessary for the State to face the expense of making changes, but it will not be seen in this financial program. Mr. President. Time runs fast and is about to run down. The UN proposal to change this financial program is all the aims of raising jobs, increasing the number of greens, improving the health and safety of the people in the country, and improving the ideals of children and of the less - important groups in society. With a financial plan to the next five years, the government of Independence Class, Progress, and the left movement has made policy for the next election period. The government has shown what will be done under her control, which will survive after the election is completed in September. The government groups will still agree with the policy of cutbacks, continuing unemployment, and inequities before the end of the council in spring.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u33	Mr. President. Here we will discuss financial programs 2022◯226. I'd like to begin my case by saying, "What says in the opinion of the Central Party, why." paritaprevir Þórarinsson, the son of Thorin, to a financial committee that says that there is a great challenge when it comes to economic management. We are facing a large exchange of state funds. Unemployment is highest, inflation appears to be landscaping and has not been determined more since 2013. It is beginning to rise, and only to see that there is a continuation in that process. The budget is the last thing this government offers. It is unusual in this way so that the current budget for five years was adopted at the General Assembly of December 17, the past year. The fundamental policy measures are, in principle, unchanged for the 35 economic and 103 financial sectors and do not suggest any material changes to what is called the core financial agenda to the next year. So this is certainly not a traditional financial program. The overall pattern is in place, but the breakdown of conventional financial programmes is not published. Thus, this financial plan is hardly set up, as the law indicates. There is no clear need for policy issues. In reality, though, these factors may never have been more important than at present. The plan includes a good economic overview, so the discussion of this financial plan is essentially a major economic issue, as well as individual issues, such as myself. Mr. President. In the opinion of the greater part of the arraignment. The legal committee says that the government's investment campaign is an important part of the response to the pandemic, and its effect is thought to be stronger than to make other donations or revenues in the form of tax doctors. Investment builds up production loss and increases production capacity. The objective of the government from the beginning of the pandemic is to soften the swing with an increase in investment, to create employment, and even more to strengthen infrastructure and increase production capacity and production in the long term. Therefore, it is very important that the level of investment is not drawn together while the economy is relaxed. Mr. President. Here, the goal must be far higher than that of striving for investment levels not to be drawn together. There is good reason to make significant efforts in transport and other national infrastructures. The rushes are the missions. It can be assumed that the pension and the private resources of various people would be prepared to participate in such a effort, ending a lucrative task that could be afforded attractive terms of debt that well fell into the treasuries of pensions. In this regard, there is reason to emphasize the opinion expressed by financial advisers in their review of the multiplication effects of investments. A financial body believes that the multiplication effects of investments are greater than the multiplication effects of many other activities. In this regard, the Council calls for increased transparency on the basis of a clear priority for investment costs and money calculations behind them. The financial adviser points out that in recent years, the budget for investments has been thwarted by 25◯30% of the approved amount. Such delays tend to weaken the impact of investments as an economic response. It is positive to see that this process is being proclaimed to be reformed. In its review of box 4 of the financial budget, industrial organizations agree that the multiplicity effects of investment spending are more and more chronic than other financial expenditures under current economic downturns and are expected to continue at least to some extent the next semester. It is a pleasure to judge the industry's Association that projects have been carried out that can increase production over time and for those who create the highest level of employment. We certainly need this. A financial policy with the importance of infrastructure is that the decision of the Association of Industrials is being made to ensure competitive employment and a good economic living, and that is what I would like to take. They finish their discussion by saying that with investments in the infrastructure, the future's sustainable interest is invested. That's right, Mr. President, the economy that alone will get us out of the unemployment and debt we now have to deal with. A new report published by the Industrial Association and the Social Advisorals on the state and outlook of the infrastructure in Iceland shows that maintenance of the infrastructure needs to be done in the same way if they are to be able to serve their purpose. The report of these individuals shows that the combined need for maintenance is 420 billion in the infrastructure system here and that some infrastructure conditions are bad. In many parts of the infrastructure, watching in the road system is not good. I want to, Mr. President, point to the helpful comments made by the Society of Industrial Affairs on the urgent project of large investments in the interiors without doubt. Mr. President. Transportation issues in the capital area need to be removed, characterised by a long construction stop and city line plans. Diving is one of the most profitable means of transportation in the country. A shortcut reduces emissions and relieves traffic congestion. It would have a strong and positive effect on the environment, not only in the capital area, but also on linking with Western and Northern countries. Regarding public transport, there is the suggestions of specialised persons who have formed the ASC. These suggestions include some 80 billion less expensive projects than city lines initiatives. Such skills cannot be overlooked. Mr. President. As a financial committee discussed in the last year's opinion, the sustainableness of public debt is not a problem, as matters are now being handled despite the increase in debt. A greater proportion of the legal committee can be said to agree that for the economic failure of the virus, the debt rate for the state was high and the increase is low at this time. In 2019 C.E., the debt of the government in Iceland covered just about 36% of GDP. I suppose it would be best to assume that the high debt of the state's budget for the virus's economic breakdown is particularly at the root of the conflicting population of the fallen bank from the 2008 collapse. It is then appropriate to point to the opinion of a financial body that the aim to stop the growth of debt in 2025 is in the value of a financial rule and will be fully established in the development of financial policy after elections and financial programs in the coming years. You can agree with the review of the Transporter Association that economic recovery rests on the growth of tourism, at least To a large extent. The average export of the country's population of a foreign tourist has been from 2 60,000,280,000 k. During the past three years, we have a steady gang, according to Haguems' numbers of service transactions. It can be assumed that the export of enterprises to a country of 100,000 international tourists could thus be costed $226,28 billion. Obviously, it will have a positive effect on land production, employment levels, and economic growth. Mr. President. We're supposed to learn from our experience and avoid mass-grained tyres with all that has been left on the land. The aim can be said to maximise the profit of each tourist while leaving behind the footprints of the resource. This is the way a knowledgemaker uses it to deal with me in his day. The recently published Association of Travellers and the draft of the Convention notes that the conditions for what is called a rare health, health, and impulse service to increase the income of each person are better thought to be the travellers who come in such an area called a rare one, i.e. Special trips, health - related trips, and so - called impulse trips, make more money on their travels than other visitors coming here. Mr. President. In a new report, Stefán Ólafsson, professor of sociology, and Stefán Andri Stefánsson concluded that Iceland is about to beat world record in damages within the social security system. The report contains the headline Kjörr pensioner's daughter-in-laws Association of Social Security and Pension Funds in the shape of earnings and is being cooperated with the Efling Association and Edu Research Centre at the University of Iceland. The damages are shown by the government's spending on pensions that are unusually low. Today, 25 to50% of Icelandic pensioners struggle with income problems, depending on where the low - income line is drawn. Public rights are less than in the public sector. The report gives a number of reasons why the maximum social security pensions are too low. Implementation of social insurance pays begins with too little money from authors' accounts of pension. As a result of this low income market, mandatory spending in a pension fund is becoming a major reduction in the government's financial expenses. So he doesn't understand enough for the pensioners themselves. The authors suggest, on the basis of this analysis, that there will be an up - to - a - 100,000 - in - a - year pension market. a month, but the current holiday limit is 25,000. and has remained unchanged since it was decided by law 2016. They also want to coordinate the pension rate with the pensioner and the sensibilities of seniors and that the payoff for employment will never be less than the minimum labour market wage. During a conversation with the Webist Mlb.is on May 21, another author, Stefán Ólafsson, stated that neither Norway nor Denmark had this kind of holiday market, where pensioners can work as much as they want without their pay cutting their pensions. The Icelandic pension fund, authors say, is more powerful than in many other places. On the other hand, they believe that governments have frequently gone too far to save their money on public security for the success of building a valuable pension fund here. The government has thus reduced the expense of the social security system too early, long before the pension funds begin to provide a full collection of rights there. In view of a statement, social security must be considered a serious underdeveloped case, Mr. President. The same is true of nursing homes, who live in a serious business position because of underdeveloped funds. I live here on a report in the Morning Press, May 27, 2021, entitled "Don't Deal With Nurses. " It says that further expenses are not expected to be taken to save the health care of the country's nursing homes in order to change more part of the budget for the Government's interpretation of financial plans until the next five years. The head of an enterprise in welfare services, these are the companies who are involved in the business of contaminated households, including, severely critical. The chairman of the budget board says that further evidence is needed to accurately evaluate the need for money. In the story, he figures that he will deal with the problems in budgets and budgets in the fall. A more significant part of the budget committee points out that the management of a new nursing facility is not fully funded from 2023 and suggests that the Committee will add 9 billion to the planned period to meet it. Eybjörg the Hauksdóttir's report, after reading the opinion of a greater legal committee and, by permission of a president, I'm going to quote: If we respond to such a reaction, we will be greatly disappointed. We've been waiting a year for a report to analyze the condition of the nursing homes. She's here and she shows the house's underprivileged. The result from 2019 is a little underestimated, but the second one later returned to repetitive agreement increases in remuneration. Obviously, the situation is very narrow, and the nursing home is about to fail. But nothing to do. It seems that the government does not want to see or hear about these issues. So says Eybjörg Hauksdóttur. She says that the nursing home can't wait until the fall for any corrections in next year's allowances or budgets. They're taking action immediately. She points out that the nursing contracts for Iceland's Medical Insurance run out at the end of the year. It will not be negotiated as a day's pay, and it will realize that there will be more business to the State than it already is. Mr. President. There is no way to correct the concerns of older people whom I have made up here to talk about. The financial program discussed here must be done better than is suggested. Finally, I want to emphasize the improved provision of public funds, savings, custody, and consultation. Decisions regarding expenses should be made unrecognised and effective.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u34	A respectable president. There is much building work to be done, and physical activity needs to be performed, as we know. They need to support the restoration of thousands of jobs, ensure economic stability and necessary basic services, permanently improving the living conditions of the country. In other words, the task is awesome. It's about what the future looks like, and it's going to be for Iceland. I would like to start by drawing together a few things about the situation now that are very serious for the public and the job. The Penitentiary target is to maintain the inflation rate as near as 2.5% per 12 months. Since the administration of the government, inflation has been measured for 41 times. For 36 times, it has been over the inflation goal that tells us that this is true of most of them for the shock of the pandemic. During the past 12 months, it has been over a goal and has further removed from these criteria. The latest test indicates a 4.6% manifestation of inflation. In other words, it is not enough to reach the cost of being twice as much or twice as the expected target but to increase the proportionest in Iceland compared to major control and competitive countries in OECD. In English this simply means that the prices have increased most in Iceland the last few years. There we are talking about realities and situations that directly influence the standard of living in this country. The second point is the unemployment level at the highest level, as though we're all aware of it. A job program has never been smaller. New reports indicate that the government budget assumes that unemployment will, unfortunately, continue considerably. As we look at plans for 2023 C.E., unemployment in this country is expected to be in the range of 4◯5%. There are awkward and frightening figures, considerably higher than the average lack of employment in recent decades and clear evidence of a continuing greater unemployment than we have ever experienced. Again Iceland stands out from controlled countries, i.e. with the increase in unemployment in the past eight years. This is a serious situation and a situation that is to be given far more attention to this issue by the government than it has ever been. Another point is the interest level in Iceland. Of course, Icelanders know well that we normally live in a much higher interest level than any other European country. There are times when Iceland has been put under pressure in this context, but this pressures have been maintained through recent trials. True, growth declined, and as a result, the general public still felt, despite the fact that we are experiencing less interest than before, they are higher than elsewhere. In Iceland, a growing process has begun, and we are taking a questionable lead. We know this, of course, and I'm not going to say anything about it, what high interest is making the homes of the country, the families of the country, and what they do to the businesses and business. I'd like to say, and I don't think I'm speaking recklessly in that subject, that this is a reality that makes this country's standard of living worse in this respect, and this is a major factor in where we are in offering competitive life rates for the public and business of the country. Another point is the real estate situation. As I mentioned, the situation has raised a great demand, and the market has not been able to meet its demand fully. We see almost daily reports on how real estate looks and what's going on with the prices there. This situation is now faced by people who are trying to get into the real estate as well as by people who are already there and who may have committed themselves in a way that makes things heavy. Sadly, this is not a good mixture and continued trend in this direction can easily lead to a large number of people getting paid. This is especially true of those who came in last, the newest buyers. These are facts that demonstrate beyond any doubt that much of the situation in this country is more difficult than anywhere else and certainly not that everything is right here. There are some things I would especially like to consider with regard to financial planning. First, there's the unemployment forecast. As I mentioned, at the end of the strategy, 5% of unemployment is expected, which would mean that 10,000 people would still be unemployed. That's 3,000 more people than we're supposed to get used to five years from today's date. This has a huge cost to society, to individuals, and to government funds, the cost measured by hundreds of billions of dollars each year. As a result, thousands of individuals and families will live under reduced incomes and will face all the problems of long - term unemployment, economic, social, and spiritual problems. We must simply act in a more powerful way than the government claims to do, and we know that professional creation is fundamental in this situation. New governments are waiting to cultivate an environment that will promote natural growth in a general labour market to counteract this. In this regard, I would like to mention that it will be easier to work with the government to this end by reducing job-related spells on them. In particular, I would like to mention that more work is being done in the country, both private and public. That's what we do, for example. with the courage to invest in green technology, invest in education and infrastructure, with the motivation for innovation, but most of all, by responsible management. Of course, this will be best done by soon - to - term success in terms of the binding of the crown to euro but in the long run by entering the European Union's Myt Community, for these variations are costing all the inhabitants of the country and directly working against the economy and against economic growth. Mr. President. We enjoy a fluctuated economy where inflation is high and growth, and this is, of course, the result of having a currency in an open economy. The secret bank's aim, and it's been, as I mentioned earlier, to keep inflation as near as 2.5% over every 12 months, but since that government took over, there have been reports of exceptions to the target being reached. I'd like to mention the obvious again, because Covid has taken over the political scene, that it matters and needs to review and point out and must not forget that this was the situation for Covid. The wealth had already become insurmountable before the economic blow with this pandemic struck. It was not merely the reveries that held this up and warned about it here in the Hall of Congress, e.g. As early as 2019 C.E. The nation's leading experts have thus been flaunted. This was last confirmed by a financial advisory in the review of this financial plan and, says the President's permission: By 2019 it had become insurmountable at the top of the economy. There is now a question of stability and self-sustaining again, but in new ways. At the same time, the government needs to be careful about the proper balance of income and pay. Mr. President. For a long time, it has been seen that many structures in society need renewal and that new ones need to be built. This has often been pointed out, and I allow myself to mention the industrial organization in that regard. I think there's a way of agreeing that many infrastructures need renewal, but they need to work at a constant level of timelines, that the timing of this structure is not in order for them to develop and expand in years. In this context, therefore, policy needs to be considered more closely. The project needs to be better prepared, and there is a need to ensure that the level of implementation or the time needed to implement a project is sufficient to meet the requirements for tender discharges. Doing a project that is truly needed is not enough; we also need to consider the timing of it. There I feel that the government has not fully caused the project, since it had little to be done at the right time and there has been a delay in important projects that would have been desirable to attack right away when the economic consequences of the pandemic were presented here. A financial body also made this a special subject in its review of financial plans, and I'm going to refer back to the council's words by permission of the president: ▪ As mentioned earlier, it takes time to attack on investments and therefore it is difficult to balance them. That's what counts to the communities as well as the state. [...] Government decisions to respond to public financial measures often take time, so they may be too late and may even work against the desired goal. This is reflected in a discussion of government investment levels last year. In the box 10 of the plan, there are a number of problems that require delays in starting an investment after financial resources have been obtained. Here, perhaps I would like to share an investment in the interior in just another direction and remind us that when we are talking about investments, we are also talking about investments, such as entering into the service of children. I mention, for example. BUDG's present position, such as health care, with emphasis on prevention that, for a long time, can save community costs and pain, such as law enforcement, but social consequences of the situation that this would seem to be very clear to the short term but also for longer. Of course, the challenge in the epidemic was, at first, to control the virus itself, with economic consequences that were heavy but inconspicuous over society, but for a long time also a nation's spiritual well - being. In this context, when talking about investments, an investment must be made in the interiors that help with this third point, a nation's spiritual well - being. Mr. President. I want to mention, and I know what. paritaprevir This was also true in a speech by Jón Valdimarsson, a convention resolution adopted by the General Assembly in April 2018, which dealt with the guarantee of quality, practicalness, and effectiveness of public investments. There, the General concluded that the best was to be hidden. Secretary of finance to update public investment policies, from the stage of ideas to implementation, and their planned life span for investments and implementations. The minister was to appoint a group of five men to form a formal government, professional, and educational community on the development of frames for three years to develop skills, to build up knowledge, and to further research in this field, i.e. In terms of quality, efficiency and efficiency. The date taken for launching was November 1, 2018, but nothing has been asked of the case after the Council agreed. It's really very serious. Here is the clear will of the council with this consent, but it appears that the will of the council was ignored. A respectable president. Reverence has repeatedly criticized the government for having excited the bow too much at the rate of high - paying money and pointing out what I'm referring to again, that the state's financial affairs had become beyond the reach of this economic blow to us. The government account of 2019 shows this in black and white. At that time, some 70 billion people from the budget of this year became worse, and the government, I mention it over and over again, has ignored any warning from us in that context. But we certainly have not been alone in this regard. The government chose, I think, to say, to ignore the fact that there was a flash of economic progress, that there was a clear sign of a recession in the economy. This has also been pointed to in clear terms, but in view of this financial strategy, it says. On this point, by permission of the president: During the crowning season, the belt was released, and the government's traffic increased in a way that the underlying product has become negative. Questions need to be asked when and how to wind up from this trend. I feel that this would be a fairly strong statement to the government, for this in effect made us truly less equipped to cope with the consequences of the crisis than we would have had to be. This is vital when discussing government matters. President. The financial agenda does not differ in how we deal with the government over the next few years and years. It refers to a further tens of billions of operations, which is a special word to avoid talking about cuts and tax increases, but there are no ideas set. Everyone knows that the required action is, in effect, cutting or raising taxes. It is bad that the government does not rely on it directly to say what it is doing in that regard. I see that I'm running out of time, so I'm going to end up saying that the major challenges are instability, high growth, and lack of long - term support, and a vision of the government and too little investment in Icelandic living. Much of the problem lies in the economic environment of the world. I see that I have no more time to review the final part of my speech and end up saying that we will not tire of doing this and will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u35	President. First, I would like to thank you for a fine talk, even if I had raised a specific question when I specifically listened to the latter part of my talk. A senator spoke well of government spending and the government's investment. While I heard those words, I had a financial program open on page 6. 42 showing how the decrease in taxation of the government was far greater over the period in 2011-52019 than in any other country around the world. The last time I had been reading through this study, I had said: "How good is this? " When one state is doing something completely different than any other state, it must need some outstanding explanation. The fact that Iceland has reduced public debt considerably more than any other country may suggest that the economy is somehow misdirected here. But seeing it at the same time as I hear it. A senator says that the government is destroying too much, the bow is too high - it doesn't fit in my mind. I'd like to ask you what. A senator is critical of what it is like to be spent on certain projects or because we have talked about the investment level being too low, i.e. Investment in companies. [[The president calls.]] If he could explain it just because it looks like a contradiction.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u36	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question. I might first want to name this point he put on, I think it's an a specialist relationship. That's what I think about a lot about our economic, financial, financial, and when you read the financial counsel, you feel like it's up to that kind of red thread there. I have approached the discussion in a way that certainly has been a good reason for the state to take a strong investment, to take a big step in that subject. However, it is not just a matter of doing so but a key role in timing. The other critical point was that I feel that the government is only in the shelter of the economic situation now, while avoiding a small talk about what was happening here in economic affairs before this economic crisis struck us. She wasn't good, as I was saying. The situation had become insurmountable for this time. I may have misunderstood the question, but if the question is, Am I arguing that we should have an investment in the interior at this point and do so in a powerful and heavy way on the part of the government, it is not. It is a key factor and, in fact, a fundamental part of the State to do so in a powerful way at such times.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u37	Mr. President. Yes, this helps me to understand the criticism. I can agree with this because I was trying to criticize a little bit of it here, 2019, 2020, when we saw that we were going into the economy, no matter what a pandemic we didn't see at that time, that it was still all the focus of the government to try to pay off debt and save and keep it from using the power of the state to build under the economy. That's what happened. I believe that the state is not a market neutral party. There are some who say so. I guess I haven't heard what. A senator speaks that way. But the state, being a figure in the first place of a huge party and industry in this country, and also a large buyer for all kinds of goods and services, is not an objective party on the market. It is important that we use the heavy burden of the State to build up just when the economy is going down, as it had begun to do in 2019. So it sounds like we're on a similar line with it. This also fits into all the innovation debates, where we see that one of the main institutions in Iceland's innovation environment is put into the middle of a pandemic despite the lack of a plan for what should be replaced. Now I think there are only a few days in which the New Creation Centre is expected to be officially deposed. I still have to see what takes over, some better plans. [[The president calls.]] But it remains that we are still on the decline in the economy, and there is still no objection. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u38	A respectable president. I agree with what. Senator, it sounds like we're close. The focus of our criticism may have been twofold, on the one hand, this point I mentioned, that the government is merely hiding that we were ill at the beginning of a pandemic because they weren't listening to the warnings. We were sick, but we did not have to be sick. The other is that we have felt that the government is way too slow to respond to the present position. We spoke clearly about it, we've held a presentation meeting, and we've written that we wanted the State to take advantage of it by taking great steps in the first place and coming in a powerful way to reduce the blow. That wasn't done. Another point may be the discussion you hear about debt now. In general, when it comes to government action, it is only a matter of looking at the debt line, but the rest may not be as important, looking at the payment load. There's this thing that goes on a lot during the discussion. It was our firm stand, and it has not changed that we wanted it to be taken to a progressive, large step on the part of the government. I have, for example. Impressed by the way Reykjavíkurburg was nearing that project, their greatest economic activity consisted of me, simply knowing that they had to do the work. They have a number of employees underneath and a part of protecting the citizens at a critical point was to protect them. I feel that I have been responsible for financial management, and it sounds to me that we are on the same page in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u39	V.E.G. President. The financial program we are discussing here today is similar to that of the local government. This in itself is a aimless document. There is really no future in this document. There's no policy in what to do to catch a flight, that Iceland gets back in flight. I would especially like to say it right away, especially after the last talk, that I am not among those who speak Iceland and the Icelandic economy down here. I'm not one of those people who think Iceland has a worse chance to get out of this crisis than any other country near, on the other hand. I believe the Icelanders have a unique opportunity to get out of this condition that we are in now even sooner and better than anyone else. I may review it a little later in my speech. In itself, the policy presented here is the government's campaign plan, an extremely dreary campaign plan but still a campaign plan. Yesterday, in discussions with government officials, it was heard that it was irresponsible to have numbers that were marvelously higher than those shown here in the year of election. That's the point of view. But that's not what you were thinking about, it's just that there's some key here that would be a solution to a business and a home to get out of the present situation. But I'm sorry. I'm gonna go over a few things. One thing we can see is to stimulate economic growth. It just so happens, Mr. President, and it may not be a custom in this hearing to quote yourself, but I'm going to allow myself to do so, about a year ago, March 31st and until April, I wrote a few articles in a magazine here in Reykjavík or on the Internet not only said on the possibility that Iceland should be left behind this disease by taking them right away, one year ago, to take measures that guaranteed in the end of the year's record, which I mentioned in my articles last March. Then I meant the time between April 2021 and September 2021. I suggested last year that there would be a series of measures to promote Icelandic production, in order to promote the currency we need as a society when we come out of this state to speed up the debt that the state's fund has collected during this situation. What I even laid. to touch Icelandic surveillance agencies that have greatly delayed the development of jobs, for example. has continued to conduct the same enterprise and has delayed funding, sales contracts, and so on. It's, like, a... ... completelyimproveable. I don't know that this has changed very much, but I think there's still a time for the company who's going to get a court on this field to get their solution so they can continue building. I also mentioned in these articles that this is a song, i.e. more than 12 months ago, to severely reduce electrical power prices to eutrophication. It now happens that one of the pioneers in the climatic industry and actually in the tourism industry, I don't want to say the tourism industry but the tourism, because he is the driver and has run a very powerful transport service to his farm that produces tomatoes. When tourists stopped coming to Iceland, this fine man assumed to double his production capacity for tomatoes. I think he is right now in those days and weeks, getting his first harvest from it. I could also mention another project that is closer to Reykjavík, actually not in Reykjavík, Mr. President, because the mayor of Reykjavík could not obtain an access to the quality of the person who wanted to expand his ministry here in Reykjavík, so the same person had to go up to Mosfellsdal. But anyway, it's built up there, and it's fast to develop, and it's very quick to start making a lot of money. There is another thing, Mr. President, which affects how we get out of the crisis of this epidemic. It is an inflation, as human inflation is inflation. I'm not leaving that, Mr. President, when it is that the dollar has dropped since 26 November last year from 135k. of 121 k. Today and EUR 161K. of 148 K. To this day - that's 10% of the coins and 8% of the others - you have to insist that a monopoly store in Iceland, an active monopoly store, restores this subsidence of the currency into product prices in order to contribute to lower inflation. And if there's anything I could criticize, the bank manager who didn't exactly take over a long time ago, then it's a raise that came in the late bank the other day. In that case, I felt like the Sustained Bank. You can see and know that we were now getting out of this situation that we've been in. Now is not the time to get interest here to get those who have already invested in housing - who are, to take probe, most of them outside of Reykjavík. I come to see that the greater part of Reykjavík's budget is dragbits on the economic activities to be done in Iceland because Reykjavík is the big show on the site in regard to construction sites. But now is not the time to start some wind - rise mill that is caused by an increase in interest that is immediately released into a price they have not dropped because of the crown's strength. I would have wished that the zebra had the strength to see perhaps one, two months ahead of this. There are also other steps that can be taken to stimulate economic growth and stimulate consumption. We Middle Class have moved here quite a few cases, e.g. aims to increase the work programme and prolong the work programme of the elderly. We have also suggested that professional income of the elderly do not dishonor pension incomes. It has been claimed by the secretary of finance that this will cost the wealth of the state immensely. But the fact is that it does not, because it stimulates this part of the nation by increasing income and by increasing its provisional resources, Mr. President. They will. I was at a very good conference yesterday, actually only the latter part of it for which the Quantum Community held, and we can see this, too, if the poor get their benefits corrected and we have, for example, ours. It is suggested, middle-class people, that a crown against the loss of a crown be no more. That's when the same song comes back, it costs a lot of money. But you must ask yourself: " What does it do with income that they get added, perhaps 10% or 15% calculated? Yes, that raise goes straight into household business, etc. Because of this, natural major parts return to the state in taxes and taxes, etc. So by stimulating this part of our personal consumption, we would, of course, stimulate economic growth. But there's nothing like this in this plan, Mr. President, nothing. There have been many times when the government had given it that government investments in government roads were raising total anger. It turned out that this was, unfortunately, very much increased. Now is the right time to stimulate public projects, and not necessarily huge projects that are the most important involved in the construction of machinery but also the smaller, maintenance, and other activities of medium and smaller companies and monotonous workers. We have also suggested, middle class, first of all, that insurance would be canceled over a period of time. This was not done. The first administrations of the government were entrusted with helping companies get rid of people and put them on unemployment record. On the other hand, we are in trouble now that people who are long - term and unable to work are in the greatest difficulty in finding work, and there are also challenges, apparently in the same region of Iceland, getting people to work. There is a demand for labor both east of the country and south of the South, and it has not been easy, Mr. President, to get enough people to work. Last yesterday or tomorrow, one of the largest hotels in Reykjavík said that he now has to recruit people into his business, and he already described them as having a problem. This is naturally very bad, and some means are needed, and it is not expected in this document to stimulate people who have been long - term workers to move ahead at the moment of employment. It seems this way, Mr. President, that tourism is taking place earlier than we may have expected. In fact, it says in a financial committee report on the government's financial plans that it is no more than that the government relied solely on the fact that tourism is quickly taking over and producing the necessary growth. Perhaps that is exactly what this government has been characterized for four years, Mr. President. She's not a participant. She's watching. She's not the pioneers, she's not creative. It's not a force to make progress. It is not a force that creates a vision for the future. She's like a patrolling, she's sitting on the sideline watching what's happening. And a month ago, Mr. President, under those conditions now that we need everything to build up a society for the future, which, in fact, is based on the future. in innovation, what does the government do? She's putting down a Second Creation Center. This, Mr. President, is quite typical of this government. It's even Because in the composition of the government, the very aimlessness is reflected, or there are many policies that we will never be exposed to, and are abandoned somewhere behind closed doors, that humans cannot achieve. Where did this appear? Yes, it does. in that private people are not to be used, which could shorten the list of people's torments for months. It's against the law. And the Independence Party is letting it pass. Money must not be taken to build up in Helgavík, and it is near the international airport on Smokejanes, since NATO wants to pay. That's the Independence Party. I can't better see, Mr. President, at all the numbers we're looking at right now than we could best use these billions that are confirmed and established to exist to build up in Helgavik, i.e. There you can expand ports and work at other locations that are then connected to the airport. But the Independence Party, the foreign minister of the left green, says, "No, we can't take away dollars to build it up. Can we afford this now? No. Can we afford to put down a new creation center now that we need it? No. There, as I say, breaks out and appears these strange manifestations of how this government is put together. It is more important than tears to see that right now, when we need an apartment building, and it has been predicted that many apartments, especially in the capital area, need to be built here, are built. in a recent magazine interview with the director of one of the largest building products in Iceland, in Reykjavíkurburg - and this has been one of the most expensive, medium-class members and others - that dragboxes on this development by building only on densely expensive, fewer than could be built. This also crystallizes in that in this area there are no apartments that fall under the newly proposed case of social and child - care ministers on so-called share loans. There is no apartment here in the capital area that falls under the price frame in that language. It doesn't exist and it doesn't exist. It will not be available as long as you're building on contours, signed negotiations with a super-sized contractor, made a deal with super-strong investors. This prevents people from building houses in the capital area, especially in Reykjavík. And what has happened? Yes, young people flee the capital, they flee the neighboring countryside, they flee to the edge of the river like in Aquilin, Southnes, and the Gangsters. So will it, Mr. President, because the other day I found out that young people living in this area and in Reykjavík are planning their offspring to have their children come into the world in the spring so that they do not live for two years until they enter a day's home or a nursery. This is natural reverse development, Mr. President, total reverse development. There's no denying this. It's been shown. This has been shown on chat rooms with young people who are exchangeing their views. This is the situation. Sadly, in this document we are considering, there is no future view to support these young people or older people or companies or to promote projects or innovation. In this piece of paper, there's almost nothing, Mr. President. Just when we need guidance and direction, that government will fail as before.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u40	Mr. President. We're here to discuss a financial programme that is a government policy declaration. While it may be stated in some way that it is unique that it appears during the last few weeks of the election season, it rhymes well with the stated aims of these three groups, which now form a government to work together, they will be authorized to end the election in September and normal since these declarations are new from the needle that this plan is examined in that light. There's been a lot going on in the community during this season, especially in the past year and in itself there's no need to recall it. But it is clear that much building work is being done, and it is just as much in view of the fact that, as we have over and over here, the status of the state funds was not particularly catchable before we reached the dive we took because of our Covid contractions and everything that followed. So there is a great deal of work ahead of moving on the job and supporting the restoration of thousands of jobs, securing economic stability, ensuring the necessary basic services throughout the country and permanently improving the living conditions of the country. There's an election coming. There is a desire among the government groups to continue this government, and this is the policy. These are government plans for frames and basic forms for the restoration of industry for the next few years. We've been discussing this document, this government policy, to another day, and two o'clock. The reverends, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson and Þorbjörg Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir, have done well with our big picture from our perspective in rerun. I'm not going to hide that this financial program is important and important for many reasons, it's a plan into the future because we live in times that present a most challenging challenge for us. I'm also amazed what's not in it. Hidden below the surface is an enormous cost that affects our community, our homes, our individuals, our professional lives, our rural society, and our ability to care for others and more important tasks, to care for others, and to care for more important expenses, to provide for another and more important structure. And what are the costs? Where does it come from? This is Mr. President, the cost of holding up the crown, which comes from holding up an open economy in an open currency. The cost of the crown was even shown. compared to euro, compared with interest rates from country to country. Thus, growth differences between Iceland and Germany in ten years have been 46% and sometimes much greater in recent years. Now the difference is 4% and it's rising. If we take a careful comparison and assume that there are 3% interest differences between a dollar and a euro, the state budget pays 3% higher budgets of debt or at least that. Two times the budget of the euro. In 2019 the debt of state funds, apart from pension bonds, was about 1,200 billion but 3% higher than within the euro, of which less than 40 billion according to simple arithmetics - of course, these are very simple accounts but are careful, and they tell a great story - that is, in effect, the unnecessary cost of the state directly attributable to the crown. If we use the same method, in the same way, we add to the cost of the currency store, which is about 900 billion dollars a year, it is about 30 billion a year. The government's cost of debt is 70 billion each year, just because of the A and the Secret Bank. I sat just like some other senators yesterday at an interesting conference of the Microcollar Alliance, which included. was presented a report on the benefits of pensioners, social security and pension funds in the shape of income. The main findings in this report point out that it will cost about 30 billion to raise the cost of a substantial amount of money paid from the pension fund from $25,000. of 100,000, and of the increase of the maximum amount of social security from 333,000 k. At 375,000. These are two of the basic proposals that are proposed to reform what everyone knows as bad, and up to the unannounced position in terms of microorganism as long as human efforts to reevaluate the system. This will cost about 30 billion a year, actions that would greatly reduce the persistent low - income problems among pensioners and improve the function of the system. Then, of course, the Corporate Community points out that the actual cost of this situation would not be so high, since higher pay would go directly into the economy to make the real cost of more than 22◯23 billion a year. Then we can examine the large sums of money in connection with the cost of the state's funds. When talking about the cost of the state's budget, it is not advisable to add also the cost of the households because the financial programs we address here are no less likely to affect the interest of households in the coming years. The commitments of the households are about 2,000 billion. And with the same account method, more caution, their additional cost is about 60 billion each year. When we add business and rural society to it, but the financial agenda we address here also has a tremendous impact on their economic situation in which they will carry out their duties, it is clear that they also have a lot to do. When we add them up, the total cost of loaners is due to the government, homes, employment, and rural society, not to dozens, but to hundreds of billions. Mr. President. We cannot ignore this problem no matter what the opinion of the Crown is about - I realize that it differs from the opinion of members of the council. Some feel that the national sovereignty and independence of the country depend on the fact that there is a dollar; others may not yield to the fight against the European Union by opening their eyes to this problem, etc. But the problem will not go away by ignoring it. He's there. This additional cost is there. The sponsors of the crown tend to suggest that it is needed to maintain a high level of employment in the country so that it can be dropped and reduced by the public's buying without calling it a pay cut. But there is a decrease in pay, and we now live in unemployment on the highest level. The way out of unemployment is, in particular, that we are able to promote these innovations and the more important things, that we can maintain the economy of those enterprises which grow on the foundation of innovation by pioneers. The crown does not help there. Unemployment has increased proportionately here from all of our opposing countries, and at the end of the financial programme in the next half of a decade, the state fund still assumes 4◯5% unemployment. It's a serious situation, Mr. President, and that's why we need to discuss these matters at the General Assembly. We need to take the lead in the discussion. We need to want to do the discussion, we need to roll with all the stones, and we need to analyze the matter in an open and objective way because open, professional, and general coverage is essential to our ability to identify the dangers and to find the most practical and effective way in the financial affairs of the state. That way will never be found if we turn the blind eye to the crown.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u41	President. I don't think I can cover everything I had left in the Committee opinion, but I'm gonna try to cover the main topics I had left. I was going to discuss the increased budgets for a cause that is considered to be more of a legal committee and to explain only where interesting changes are. Under the International Parliament and its surveillance agencies, the change is negative. There was, however, an increase in financial resources within the period due to projects in a new committee field that replaces a house rented by the General Assembly today. A very practical procedure there. What is strange, however, is that in the government covenant, there is a goal to promote IIism. It has translated more staff in the Committee area, which is very good and is still missing. There's still more staff for members of Congress, so that's very necessary. But what I don't understand is how it can lead to four percent of the budget being drawn together. Even so, taking into account the institutions of the Generals, the State Reconnaissance and Administrator of the Generals, who have repeatedly pointed out the lack of funds to conduct initiative studies. I'm going to jump into the scene of Creation, research and knowledge. There's a 33% increase in the season, less than 5 billion. However, the largest part's list calls attention to the increase in donations by 93%, which is temporary contributions to innovation, reimbursement for research and development costs, and falls in 2020 and 2024, or at the time that the budget is due to cut down on the financial budget. Government policy actually expires then. An increase in donations for the start and innovation funds of Krea also ends 2024. The increase observed appears mainly to be due to the EU's framework of education, research and technology development. It is an increase in this government, with everything going on in the affairs of innovation apart from this temporary project. Under rural and regional communities there is a 4% reduction. There's nothing to happen here, no plans for the County Fund, local plans or parish plans. Less than nothing after all. Under the topic range of individual, religious, and judicial rights, there is a 15% increase, 2.1 billion. This is an increase due to changes in the church meeting. That hardly explains half of the increase. The other half are unexplained in previous financial programmes, but it appears that they are due to a group of foreigners that grew much between 2017 and 2018. The number of applications for asylum increased greatly between 2015 and 2016. In 2015 there were 323 applications or about 27 applications per month. By 2016 the applications had tripled, to 977. Most became so in 2017, or 1,096, or 91 applications per month on average. Then there were 654 applications in 2020. This is simply because the government has a very expensive research on how to send people out of the country, but because this is the way it is chosen, there is no other way to go to that expense, where a United Nations refugee agreement is needed. The refugee problem is not easy to solve, but it requires a concerted effort on many nations who today are able to cope with the problem with a small number of nations. It will cost money, inevitably, but it is much better to use that money to help people, instead of trying to find out how to send it directly to live in a dump in Greece. Refugees are in huge trouble. Greece is in huge trouble. We can do much better. The agricultural sector has 4% recession, of which 800 million are present. The 2021 financial program says: "A reduction in the amount of stock market agreements. There's just no policy here. Marine and fish farms: 5% reduction, 315 million No discussion of changes in this topic field in budgetary plan 2022/2026. Nothing's happening, nothing. Other level of education and culture management: 6% reduction, 350 million or so. This will increase the emphasis on improving the skills of students in Icelandic, math, and natural sciences as well as improving the status of students with a different mother tongue. There's still 350 million contractures. I just don't understand anything, I don't know how it goes together. There's some magic in there. Hospital service. There's a 37% increase, 36 billion bucks. The main change in the topic area is the implementation of a new Hospital. It is estimated that in the years 2019/2023, land hospital funds will decrease by less than 5 billion dollars. At the same time, donations to the Akureyri Hospital are virtually unchanged, and the total contribution to hospitals is rising by about 8 billion dollars. This should be clear that there is virtually no transparency in the operation of this group. A financial committee receives a much better report on the health - care system from the Hospital, but it receives a commission from the Ministry, yet very well-deserved data. In fact, there is no perspective on the medical matter, no hospital service, no nursing services, no rehabilitation services. Up top of this, we're getting reports of Iceland's Medical Insurance where data show that some medical personnel get up to 700 thousand bucks. daily on payment, on average. The amount of money appears to be high, but the director of health insurance says no cost analysis is behind it. Perhaps this is perfectly normal when we consider all the cost of tools and facilities, but it would be the least to introduce the capital of this position. It has been well documented in responses to written requests on the Agency's legal work that no one has any idea how much it costs. Preservations of the next year are counted from the previous year on the basis of individual implementations for temporary projects. No one has any idea why the health - care cost will be about 300 billion dollars. in 223 C.E. If anyone knows, at least the funds will be paid. not to know that, however, it is to be searched. Everybody here is responsible. The management board for insufficient financial transparency. A minister for not doing anything about it and the General for not rejecting unexplained documents. In the political majority system we live in today, this responsibility is written on the government parties without obligation. It's the government that's responsible for this. The rest of us try to ask and get information and we don't get any answers. Nurse and rehabilitation services. It is a big case, and much effort is being made on the budget or to work on it. Most of the parts, however, have done quite well in calling out for information but are not able to answer, at least not to say the answers they are calling for. There's a 14% increase, less than 8 billion. This, however, is not enough for the need for this class. This has been reported at the beginning of the season. This has an advantage in a community service where subsidies in this field create a so-called flow problem in LSH with the related extra costs in that language field, at greater costs than would cost to repair it in the nursing and rehabilitation sectors. A recent report was published explaining the problem, why nursing homes are repeatedly fired at a angle. The conclusion from that report was that no one knows why it is not a question of size to run a larger nursing home but less. However, the same report tells us that taking into account the fact that a larger nursing home is getting weaker people, size-separated. They both say it's amazing. The paradox's over there. The result is also that rural society pays low-payers in nursing homes better than the state and in an effort to keep the nursing home free, the proportion of unskilled underpayers is much higher than it should be. Still, nursing homes are fired with a tilt. So it's taken all this perfect period to get to nothing. The problem is still the same and there is no solution in sight. Let's go over to the metric area of disability and disabled people. There's a 45% increase, over 29 billion dollars. We've got 4 billion here. an increase that was due to reducing a dollar to a dollar reduction to a dollar in a dollar's cash and, on the other hand, direct pay because the funds could not be added to the system. This amount hung like some yellow root for micro-organization candidates, depending on their experiences, making a system changes, or implementing a work programme. You're gonna get 4 billion into the system if you pick up your operating performance assessment. That is how it sounded in the descriptions of the Quantum Community. At the same time, the pensions of social security have lost 5.7% since 2017 because of the difference in pay development and the increase in social security. Then there are countless differences in pensions compared to the same salary in the biographies agreements. Just that difference would cost about 6.5 billion more in the field of disability than in the elderly in order to get the same figures for the lowest paid groups. To make it clear: Social insurance pensions are 5.7% lower than pay development during the same period. It's simple. The increases in this subject are merely due to demographic development in other ways than the 4 billion. which are mentioned above, i.e. 25 billion on the basis of demographic changes, as well as 4 billion that were supposed to be this yellow root to make system changes. There is a 36% increase in the subject range in the elderly, about 28.4 billion. It's just systematic growth, that's all. The people are getting old. Then we come to work markets and unemployment. There's a 16% increase, less than 900 million. It simply has a high level of unemployment and a decline in the period according to forecasts. However, predictions increased between financial plans, i.e. to the government's policy as it was approved. Prior to the year's beginning, less unemployment was expected at the end of the forecasting period. When the last policy was adopted, which was to be met with predictions of unemployment development, it had no greater effect than predicting the growth of unemployment. But I guess the actions that have been introduced right before election, start jobs, etc., will address this trend, and will definitely have an effect. These are measures that should have taken a lot earlier, since unemployment grew as the epidemic went on despite government policy intervention. In other words, it is not intervening as when the epidemic is down, during its final months, some counter measures are finally taken. Before, just wait and wait. At this level, cost analysis is not due to unemployment benefits for students who are entitled to it because students who are working by study pay insurance and who are required to gain the right to unemployment. The topic field of housing support has about 24% reduction, about 3.5 billion. As reported in financial programmes, increasing planning for the economy explains all the increases. However, there is nothing to explain the decrease that is truly remarkable, especially in view of the shortage of apartments in today's housing market. There was an updated forecast of the lack. There was an increase of about 500 apartments, compared to earlier predictions, for population growth, such as positive but negative, that there is not an increase in groundwork to meet this deficiency. While we are lacking, we are always dealing with a lack of housing market, which means that any improvement in that market will result in an increase in housing prices, not in the solution to the problem. It's just temporary warming for those who get in a position and can move into the market. Everyone who arrives there will be in an even worse soup. Temporary solution but not permanent. Finally, there is a general reserve and special arrangements. There is a increase of 298%, or 36 billion. It's just bullshit. Of course, this is not an increase. This is just an inaccessible space for spending or subsidies. The problem is, the government doesn't know what to do with this money and just pile it up in a public reserve. If surgery is required on the second part of this financial program, it is rather obvious that we will, of course, begin with this topic field. This budget has not been assigned to anything but a payment of debt or something else. The prospects as I see them are to plan A is that the tourism service is taking very good care of themselves immediately next year, much better than predicted, e.g. Because of the volcanic eruption I think it'll only be for a few years. That's what I'm thinking. It's an A-plan. I think it's about to go well. This means that we need to build more because short - term provisions will go back up again. The problem is, we don't have a plan B in this financial program. If everything goes as expected, what? [[The president calls.]] The key question is: Why should the government be allowed to give wealth at exactly this time? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u42	Mr. President. I had promised myself that I wouldn't give another speech about the texture and empty financial agenda of this government, and I've had to do it so many times before, and I find it rather boring. But after a conversation with what? paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson last night and after hearing good speeches. paritaprevir Since Gunnarsson Leví had a very good look at the details, I can't help going into the texture scenes, and I'm going to try to make this organized. When I was going back on the financial program, I thought about writing to James C. Scotts, anthropologist at Yale University, and perhaps mostly to his book called Seeing Parta State, where he deals with how state tries to simplify and suck all things down to manageable sizes so that they can be controlled. In fact, Venkat Eshwara has an excellent structure for him to take it together and said that the first step was to watch a complex, confusing reality like the social qualities of an old city and the second step to fail completely to figure out how all the details of that complex reality work together. A third step is to assume that the reason why you don't understand what's going on is that what's going on is imperfect rather than yourself being limited. The next step is to create an independent version of what reality should look like and then provide evidence that this simplicity and this Platonistic rule in this vision is logical. And then the last two steps are to use power to achieve that vision, even though it eliminates the reality that was before, and the final step is to watch this perfectly logical opium fail completely. I'll take it together because when you look at the financial program, forecasts are primarily a linear continuation of what looks best at each time. There are no security cards. In fact, almost no security card or minimal statistical summary of what could go wrong in any analysis that you get from the government, whether it's national or national intelligence from the National Bank. Security cards are few to hear happiness in an analysis of the modern economy. But it may be worse that this document does not make it obvious what we are going to do as a community and how the government makes it possible for society to develop. If this came from outer space and tried to figure out the role of Iceland's economy, the relevant would likely conclude that the aim was to get the most together in government spending, save as much as possible, to build up as much as possible, to maintain financial standards, whether in accordance with the nature of underlying society or not, and, in all respects, try to prevent economic development from becoming a natural and sustainable way. An example of this is that the New Creation Center, which has often been criticized, and in the highly organized and very vague changes in the innovation environment and that there has never been any industrial policy in Iceland, even though recently our Congress proposal for Marty and the forward party, has been adopted to correct it. But until industrialism has arrived, we cannot begin to triumph there. We see a profession that is monotonous, and it is an amazingly large and wide policy of protection against many of them. Certain occupations are defined by gangry, and the potential for economic development is limited because other countries have used industrial policy or innovation in an effort to encourage more industry has always been used to protect the current level, especially if well - connected persons are behind it, hoping that there will be other whales. The simplified image that we both see in the budget now and in the financial programs of the past few years, from the fact that financial programmes became available on the other hand, and indeed if you went into budgets far back in time, the image of a society that is small and simple and understandable. But that is not the case. The fact is, Icelandic society is complex and varied. The rule has been convinced that it all has been so simple that there is no need to do anything but to reduce national spending up, to increase them slightly, to the down cycle, to hope that a new hospital can be built if many people complain enough rather than have a long - term plan and build up before the need is forced and strengthened the institutions that are in the community when it is needed, rather than when they have been starving for so long that they cannot do their work anymore. Because of all this simplicity, it is so easy to get to the right angle in this Kingdom arrangement. You can make good use of the weaknesses of the government system, and you can make a fool out of the control system if you have a mind to do so. We can see the end of a complicated terms period. Things looked pretty good at first, but then there was a breakdown in the economy that was predictable in every way. In addition, there is an unpredictable pandemic. You would have thought that the right reaction was to say: "Yes, the environment in which we work is insanely complex. What we've been doing so far hasn't been enough. In many parts of society, it is necessary to go out of this process, take a risk of building jobs, increase the number of jobs, build a lot more out of housing, drop out of innovation, and even adopt something that is based on modern ideas about how money works, and do things in some way that suggests that we are a large and complex community that is going in the right direction. There are many joyful things here, and try to point in some proper direction, e.g. with an extra million dollars on the environment - okay, great, 10 billion over a ten-year period. There is evidence of interest in doing something great and I know that there are many political interests, but the financial program does not suggest that there are any political concerns to be realized. I guess I can guess why. I don't know if I can do it fairly with those involved, the three categories that form more part here at the Council to form the Iceland government. But if I were to guess, it would be that there is no agreement on where we should go, which is understandable from the politics of these different categories. What is serious is that they may lack the solidarity of trying to reach some common conclusion. When it is possible to skip that conversation, it is much easier to fall into this very oversimplified picture of the community as James C.. Scott's warning. It is much easier to assume that everything will be taken care of, especially when you can watch a lot of graves in a lot of reports that all of the linear continuation of what looks best without any security cards or other indications that this could possibly go off track. I've had to do this many times during the years I've been here at the council because it hasn't worked out. We are still in the same place that we were in 2016 when I arrived at the council. Yeah, a lot of things have happened in politics, we've changed a lot of songs, one for another. But are we somewhere else? I'm not sure. We have the same big business as they do. Travel had gone to 2016. There's just as much bad evidence in the economy. There are as many bad examples of gangry as there are other forms of the government system in many cases. This has not been what everyone knew to do in order to build innovation and support systems, etc. and we are still working on values in economic management and financial principles that have been shown not to succeed. It is my hope that sometime in the years ahead someone will realize that things can be done better, that things can be drawn out from celebrating the diversity and confusion and all that is there in the wonderful land in which we live and going to wind off all this tired disposition. I know we can do better. Here are conflicting ideas, and there are many different categories at the council and each one, even those whom I least like, still have something to offer. So I think we should take this financial program as a sign of what happens when we try to do as little as possible and try to create the complete opposite of the financial program that shows what we can do when we try the most.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u43	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for an interesting talk. I'm not gonna say what. A senator has hurt me up here, but a lot of things in his speech. A senator would draw my attention, and he would like to. Hv. A senator said that he had entered the 2016 Parliament and that little had changed at the time. I'm not gonna stand here and say that one thing is great and that one thing is done so well and the other is all perfect, that's far from it. Hv. A senator gave many practical suggestions, including how we develop the habit of looking at things and simplifying them. I think it's only general in human nature, just to grasp it, and I don't talk about this vast dimension. We are talking about a total of 1,100 billion, 35 languages. This year, 2016, I stopped for a while. That is exactly when the government law on government finance is valid, January 2016. They had long been in preparation, with all the flaws, and with what we are trying to grasp. Still, we have never met in the policy process that the law really commands to keep on, which is a very positive process. But I'm going to try to draw out the most positive part of it. Throughout all the horrors and moods we had to go on and, especially now, which are evident both in the plan and in the budget and in the funds, we have, and I'm just going to quote financial advice, the financial adviser says that the laws on public finance have improved the financial and financial process and policy plans and increased the discipline and firmness in the federal affairs so that we try to leave something positive in the process that we truly are in, a learning process. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u44	Mr. President. I think it's the point that I haven't experienced what this process was like before the government law was adopted. That's where my ignorance may cause some simple thing in my mind how complicated this situation is. I take all of this criticism of my speech, but I can't help thinking that if there's something that has caused us harm in the very years of living up to 2019, then it was that the law on public finance as they are today does not cover the wise handling of the money, it's about the fact that it's about reducing the assembly's spending of projects and, on the other hand, evading our financial process that the state should always be paying off debts, even when it could be done something more beneficial to our financial resources. We may not see this on page 42 of the budget, where it's buried, where it's shown how -- I suppose these are OECD countries - all OECD countries are either increasing their debt or reducing them moderately -- it's up to 2019 - except Iceland, who spends their whole farms on paying off debts. As it says here, with the permission of a president: There is no parallel in the world, nor is there ever again. And when I see a country, whether it's Iceland or any other country, that's doing things in everything, quite a different way than all the big industrial states in the world, a great explanation for why it's a good idea. [[The president calls.]] And I'd like to say that this is a result of our economic ideals, which is brought into the public financial law that says that the State's main objective is to reduce itself, to be remembered and to allow capital owners to control everything. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u45	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I'm not going to stand here and say that I have some much more experience or comparison to say that there's something better here with the government law on finance, much less. I came into Congress in 2013 and the procedure in preparing that law began much earlier. I don't have much story to say in comparison. I'm just gonna stop for an answer. A senator and only what he received in his talk. Now I may be in that situation, trying to simplify things because this is where I'm going. A senator raised very interesting questions. We have financial regulations that we have disabled. Is 30% necessarily some sacred debt rate? And where's the gap in sustainable state money? We're going somewhere between 50 and 60%, depending on what's happening right now, on this plan, and we're just a little open economy. In general, a lower debt rate is needed for sustainability of a small open economy with monotonous occupations. Then I've reached the very essence of it. A senator came in, we need to increase our variety. It's the innovation show anyway. In his talk, a senator made an excellent decision. The conversation sounds like a lot of harmony because we need to increase our variety so that the extent of our tourism may not be the same. Then I'm up to my economics. A senator came in, that we are adding so much to a recession to soften the swing, and so on, in the event of a riot. Then we'll live so well that we've designed tax systems, tax reform systems, and all equalities, they should balance this in a normal response. But we're not in any normal crisis, so it's only so much more, and we're forced to react with a responsoring action, whether on the income or the pay gate, in combination with the automatic swings. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u46	Mr. President. To be honest, all I have to do is digest the last thing that ever happened. A senator said because I think it has a certain truth. But I just need to figure it out. We may not disagree that this is the case, but what I'm trying to criticize is that if you're speaking wrong things and setting goals on the wrong standards, you can get the wrong conclusion or, in fact, any conclusion you might choose. I fear that putting all the focus on the state debt status of each time and the amount of state pay is basically a wrong ide that produces weaker society over any period, whether we are in an upcoming period or downturn. I think, and I've said it a few times, that it would be much better to measure things like, e.g. each production pen is for each time. To measure the production potential and to try to keep it equal is a much better goal. There is also much better goal to measure, for example. Export prices and place export problems in our economy. These would be goals that I think would do much better for everyone. It's certainly the simple goal if you put it this way, and we all do become guilty of simplifying things to ourselves, but if we're going to simplify things, we'll do it at all times in the best possible way rather than fall into some fresh economic ideas about what state should owe much or... to or from. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u47	Mr. President. Clearly, this second discussion of a financial program, which is, of course, a special case, a new government takes over in the fall, and, of course, there is some evidence of being aware that this document is more in order to fulfill the laws of public finance than that it will be the natural guide into the next election period. I have to take a little view of the points I was going to take in here in my speech in view of the discussion that took place just before then. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy in response to what. Chairman of the budget board, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson. It turned to the importance of reducing the debt of the state's funds. That's where we pointed out why. paritaprevir Just a Smári Mccarthy on an excellent table on page. 42 in a financial program for 2022◯226 that highlights the remarkable success of government funds when comparing the periods 2011-52019. It's a mild term for Iceland's unique audience. It seems to me that if not all OECD countries listed in this table, Iceland, over the years, from 2011 to 2020, to lower the total debt of the state by less than 60%. No nation there is anywhere near it, and much of it increases the total debt of government during this period. Malta's there at 25%, I think, but other countries are far behind us in this regard. In this context, you will need to mention, and it is done here conscientiously in the text of the plan, that this will be explained, by President's permission, as follows: ▪... to a considerable extent by a more favorable solution to the swelling of banks, such as by significant government stability contributions, and by the rapid and rapid number of visitors who visited the country. This is the point mentioned above in this fine text, which is expected to have been employed in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which is explained to a considerable extent by a more favorable solution of agreements facing up to the swelling of the fallen banks, the so - called stability proposals. It is never too often to thank for the fact that the government here in 2013 in the year2016, led by the Shimmer of Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, the present president of the Middle Party, performed a complete miracle in these matters. Of course, it would be a good compliment to commend the materials and create the basis for the good financial standing that was here when the Covid situation broke. It's important to keep this in mind because I understood why. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy in such a way that it had come from overemphasis, as I think it would be. A senator said that, should pay off the debt. It is important to stress how to pay off the debt of the state, but there was this monotherapy action, someone would call this whale dragon, but in any case a single intervention that did not fall from the sky. It was quite a rage, let me say, a discussion about whether this was over my head, and it was probably never hotter than at the 2013 spring convention, which said for them elections. I'd like to take this opportunity back, if that's what I'm doing. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy opened this discussion, to commend the Sigmunds of Gunnlaugsson Gunnolson, who sat here in 2013-2016 for the extraordinary success achieved in the development of broilers in the stabilisation process and the effect that this operation had on increasing the scope of Kingdom debt recovery, of course, that is, as it continues, by the permission of the President, that the level of human life and financial growth of government funds for the future will depend on how we achieve a restoration of dynamic and sustainable profits. That, of course, is a key element in everything we now look at. We need to support it and think of all the actions that result from getting our jobs on their feet in the most powerful way and in the best possible way. Of course, as has been done by the scholars who used to be in politics, looking at a very narrow, reserved area of the economy and saying, "It's all right except the travel service, it's all in cake, but it's not that serious, it's only less than 10% of the whole. Of course, that's not real. All of this hangs together, and tourism affects other aspects of the economy, so we cannot allow ourselves to approach the matter in that way. I'm stressing that we have to take whatever action we can so that our professional life gets on its feet as fast as possible and that's where we have to look for a simple rule. We need to reduce taxes and fees, and we need to show understanding that the value of our well - being systems will come into existence in the secular world. This is just the case, and it is not to say that public employment is not important, as it is. But there will be no standing, and there will be no government power to support the good work being done in the public sector if it is not kept that the job life can create the valuables needed to survive that operation. But it was now a little out of the way, and it has been so much in the past conversation that I will not repeat what seems good to me. But I wanted to establish some of the transport issues in the Senate arrangement as it is available. It's as if what doesn't stand out here often doesn't matter any less than what the paper says. At the end of this election period, I believe that there is now no proof that future taxation policies are to be expected. This project has been on the board of transport ministers throughout the ideal period. It is not overhistory that it is regularly flaunted, usually with the intention of explaining that something else has not been achieved or has been completed, but this work is being done. I suppose this will be the last discussion we have here on legal matters, except that. Chairman of the budget board, and vice president sitting here in the side hall, leaking on some bandworm to be handed over. There's one left, looks like I, at the hand move. [[Up front.]] But I just want to remind you of this as soon as I criticize the fact that no attempt has been made to achieve the work that is so necessary to take place, which focuses on how a future charge will be implemented in the transportation system. Because it is, of course, that while there is no such issue as cooperation projects, the bill of this material was adopted here at the last council, in the low. While there is no regularity in this regard, it is empty to speak of being able to get along with the so-called cooperation projects, PPP projects, or what we call them. I just want to keep it in place and criticize it, and, of course, this is a new transport minister, whoever it will be in the fall, must be quick and adaptable. I don't know how many times in this fine piece of paper are referred to as energy change in transport. The deposit system of the new energy cars, electric cars, takes them just because of the number of people coming on the streets, is in such a way that if we look at them in the context of the time frame that is normally being done on transportation, it will not be wiped out at any very long time. This is a work that will not be stored all the time, and I just don't want to criticize the fact that it has not been won or the idea all the way forward so that it could be cooperated in the terms of the average period of approximately one year. I'm gonna be done. Another factor that I would like to establish regarding transportation is what will be discussed here in a second discussion at the end of a meeting today, if all goes naturally. It is an updated transport program that developed late and eventually causes significant changes in the development of the EU backup aeroplane system, which basically involves the cessation of building a so - called highway along the Eglial Airport, and instead of going to the work that has been facing for years that it would be extremely dangerous to delay, which is beginning to decompresse the course. I don't criticize it, as it were, but it's this vision and expectation management that seems to be a lack of loss in kontos at the highest level. This is the secretary of transportation. This kind of thing can't fall out of the sky. The situation that suddenly there is no money or organizational status in such a way that after examining the evidence in the light of a discussion that took place two days ago, Isa's warning to Isa is not correct to be understood by the Lagilis State Department, secretary, or representative. We must not allow the flight security issue to run, but that is, of course, the picture that is drawn up when we look at these issues in particular is about to begin an appendix to the transport program that follows, and in the light of the previous discussion, the release factor is far too high in those topics. Only in terms of transport issues, so over the years 2022 mouse, there will be a 16% reduction in transport and communications funding, which, according to the reduction of 8 billion, from 50 billion to 42 billion. It may be reasoned that there is another aspect of the work to be done again, such as the one I criticized earlier, which is a new vision of transport payment. I just want to keep in mind that the investment factor of the financial programme that turns around that transport is bringing a significant drop in the periods, and that's just a thing we have to get close, whether we're going to do it with a debt of financing outside this framework or whatever the way. But it is simply not an option to reduce investments in the transport system. It is simply the amount of money - making work that cannot be accomplished that it is not incorruption. I'd like to come on, just on a general level, public financial law. There are many benefits, but other things may not have worked just as was expected when the law was set. I'd like to mention, however, that the secondary factors are not yet seen in the necessary way, in order to make only the cost of making it easier for older citizens, pensioners, to work. Then there is a routine assessment of the costs for the public, but the income factor, whether tax or otherwise, or possibly, saving in the health system, is not considered. Something else, of course, that caught attention in an unprecedented question period earlier today was a discussion in which the chairman of the Central Party, hm. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, spoke to the chairman of the Independence Party, the highest. Secretary of finance, the assessment of the secondary costs for the growth of the applications and, in this context, the growth of particularly the increase in unfounded takeoffs and the assessment of these costs. And if it is true that the law on public financial matters actually makes it a reality that is not largely influenced by action, then it is made that these laws need to be adopted and reviewed, since in most of the matters we have here at the council, there are two courses, costs, or income. I just want to make sure that this needs to be considered so that we watch projects and issues as they will happen in real life. We watch news of a conference of nurses'staff. It's all in the hands of an army, to be spoken of lightly. I've seen that the structure of nursing homes on a national level is in order to be spoken out in a mild way, slower than expected. However, this is a celebration in relation to the situation in which they live. I'm sorry, but I can't read it from the financial program as it is known that it has been covered by men in an effort to see how that situation will be resolved. A news report at a mlblís this morning, which is discussed with Eybjörg Hauksdóttir, executive director of a company's welfare agency, says, with permission of presidents: If we respond to such a reaction, we will be greatly disappointed. Is there evidence, then, that the financial problem is not expected to increase, as the report says. This is severely criticized by the director of the Association. There can be no doubt that this document is not thought in the long term, just in the light of the circumstances, and I have a complete understanding of it. But I don't think it's acceptable that anyone who's around the nursing home is just passing through. I'd like to keep it here, whether you look at the building up needs, in the context of a discussion that we know about the flow problem of Land Hospital, etc. Yet, this situation is quite appropriate when consideration is given to the business. It is very serious, and I would have wanted to see that it had been handled in some way. But it is as it is, and the situation is the way it lies here. Now that my time is running out, I'd like to take back the criticism we've put out here, middleclassmen, about the costs of being a whole immigrant business, not the cost of welcoming the people we're going to receive and come here to form through the armadavers system, but like the highest Sæmundsson. A few weeks ago, a minister of justice said that Þorsteinn system was a noxious to cover the cost and that it should rather be brought in. Of course, in a situation like this, it is not acceptable. And if we have a law on public financial matters to try to discipline us and to do better in these matters, we have to look at the whole matter and look at the secondary effects of decisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u48	Mr. President. It is so fun with a financial program that the entire community is subject to and, as a result, often very little related. I'd like to have a word here for what? A senator about two things happened to him; a bus and a fugitive.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u49	Bus? Okay, okay.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u50	I'm gonna hook one up to the bus. But let's start with the refugees. The central category often talks about the cost of covering candidates for international protection. I just want to fuck with it here. A senator, without much material discussion about it, will simplify the way to reduce the cost of the government at the reception of candidates for international protection is simply reduced. The main load, the primary cost, of the system is to keep people in their food and shelters while being pressured by lawyers on duty, to find some means of deporting people. If we were to just lower the threshold and make it easier for people to go to the country, they would grow much sooner out of the supporting system on which the Foreign Institutes offer candidates, so that they could only work, participate in society, keep the economy going, and pay taxes and what they do when they have a suitable visa. If we are looking at efficiency and saving, the simplest way in the security system is to accept more people. Then I'd like to ask because of what you're doing. The senator is the chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee, and he spoke here of the troubles of executives in agreeing with the provision of transport for the future. It's a huge problem because it's about how we make sure that the switch from the gas tank we're about to say goodbye to and to the green future will be just, how we make sure that regardless of our economy and habitats, people can take part in that transition. One of them is the payment, so I'd like to think about it with the senator if there wasn't a bit of a need for it, e.g. The supportive system in different types of transportation. We have a very expensive system of subsidies on electric cars and electric trucks that the government needs to finance from a government fund. The system could be leveled by slowly raising the biteing costs of fuel cars and letting it cross into green options. [[The president calls.]] Whether this is something the senator would like to have at home there. And I also wanted to get a little better from what. A senator: What is the problem with bringing about some future system of bankruptcy between the members of the administrations?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u51	Something's the timer, the clock, trying to scare us.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u52	Mr. President. Clearly, it was. A senator came across too many questions. But maybe I'll start with that as long as possible. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson ended. Regarding the trouble with forming a new way in which you paid for traffic, I could well believe that a large part of him was that of inactivity. Secretary of transportation that has shone through, including in that one day it is the highest. A minister is wholly against the charges: the second is he with them, and the third day he is turned against them. I think that explains mostly because of the highest. A secretary of transportation has no conviction as to how these matters will be handled best, and that is why the matter is not being won. I hope so. A senator forgives me, but I'm going to come up with foreign affairs in a later way to keep the harmony in this. Then, again, there is the question of how the currency develops between environmental vehicles and new energy automobiles and fuel pumps. The strengthening system, which can be said to be a nation against the new energy cars, if we limit it, will be able not to take money from their buyers to the same extent into the public funds as from the other vehicles. Thus, it is not in itself being returned anything; it is not taken from the owners of new energy cars the same amount of gas cars, these traditional fossil fuel cars. I don't think there's any improvement in this, and it's been a long time to believe that we should reduce curses on Iceland's cars, especially the country's need for people to be on powerful cars, just because of wintering conditions on chapters and worse roads than we know here on the southwest corner. [[The president calls.]] But I'll come to other questions in case of trouble. A senator does not add many.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u53	A respectable president. I'll try not to add much to it. I'll deepen more than what I said before. Hv. A senator speaks of the potential insurmountability of a transport minister as a barrier to the gathering of the government groups of the future transport fees. I'd like to throw the idea into the hot tub that it could also be because this is a matter in which three Ministers really need to agree on the results, finance ministers and environmental ministers would need to come to this level, too, in order to make a good impression. This brings us to the core problem of the government, to be composed of three categories that do not share vision of these issues, and then the situation will be stationary rather than any change. I was going to talk about bus, so last year I didn't get an answer because it's part of the development of currency. Making it possible for people to go on green transportation is also allowing them to go to bus and public transportation. There's a couple of friends I'd like to consider that has been discussed with an environmental and transport committee that I don't understand why we're on the beach. On the one hand, it is the idea of getting public transportation into a transport program as part of the network of transportation to bind parts of the country together by public transportation as likely as tying them together by roads. However, it's my idea that I read an unusual echo review of the Commission's reference to a bill that we have discussed on the Environment and Transport Committee, which reminds me that the Committee has twice encouraged the Ministry to set laws on public transportation, in 2017. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's going to go and wait and nothing's going to happen. What causes it? [[The president calls.]] This must be something that counts with being able to push this trend forward.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u54	A respectable president. In terms of the seeming conclusion of the environment and transport committee, it appears to hit the bottom end of the budget at the highest level. A secretary of transportation, I don't know the answer, but I imagine it's the same thing as the fact that the recent situation has been highest. The minister of finance described the council as not giving counsel by referring matters to the government. I have a subtle suspicion that the highest. A transport minister uses it as an explanation, although it does not keep any water in this context because there are so many things to repeat, e.g. Work on a new geographer program which was put in line in an approved transport programme at the beginning of 2018 and then had to be overreached when the transport program was updated. I remember it was 248 words in there. It was as smooth as it could be, and a few words about a single tunnel instead of a substantiated tunnel plan, such as the one that was placed as the foundation set 20-25 years ago, if I remember correctly. With regard to the bus, we in the central category are provided with an option for people who are suitable for them. We have serious doubts about how a so - called city line is a reasonable way, but it would probably be to support the public transportation we know. But we feel that we have been beyond recovery. Great funds have been placed in the bus every year for the past ten years, while this so - called construction stop has been in progress. But this is just part of making it easier for people of all economic levels, because of what they do. A senator put it this way, using the transport system of the country. But very brief - I'm almost done, my chief. President - about the point of view. A member of the immigrant business. [[The president calls.]] I can totally figure out what you're doing. There's a senator going there. [[The president calls.]] We may not share the same view, but the point I understand.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u55	Mr. President. I'm going to go into a speech or something. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason's son, who spoke about a nursing home and called it up - I talked it over in my speech yesterday, he apparently missed it, and this is also included in a committee section of the legal committee - how we approach it. It states that the diagnosis of nursing has now been completed. From that analysis, we cannot draw one strong suggestion. That is why we can say that the majority of the legal committees are not responding in any way except in our adjustment of the budget for the funding of uninhabited space or space to be built in the coming years. In our opinion, however, we refer to a health minister to the fact that prior to this fall the budget needs to be at the bottom of the funding and conversation with the nursing home so that it can get to a better place than it is today. This is a big problem. One is to respond to changes in hours of work, which I know is a conversation between health insurance and nurses. There are also factors related to the payment of collective agreements that were 2019 and then this project, perhaps the largest, is said to be insufficient for domestic costs due to increasing age and increased weight of nursing, so the committee says in two ways: we watch the problems we are dealing with today and we will cope with them on a budget, but then we need to look for longer planning and policy in this category, which we also to break up in our committee list. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u56	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, answer. This is a 25 topic field in the Committee, and I didn't miss it. That's exactly what I'm talking about. A senator introduced those who referred the case a little further. But I understood why. Is it true that a senator is referring to the next fall fund for a release, or is there an additional bonus, because I don't sit on a financial committee for this end of the council? However, the point is the same, which is being drawn up in an interview by the Directorates of the Organization for Health Services, Eybjörg Hauksdóttir, in the Morning newspaper this morning, that there is not expected to be an increase in financial resources due to the financial crisis. In this context, the period covered by a financial plan, the next five years, sounds like it's coming back to me. A senator's only being true. I have a complete understanding that this is not a simple matter to deal with, and this problem is at least Twofold, probably more than that. But it doesn't change that nursing homes around the country, especially those who are self-employed, I think it's safe to say, are up. We can only see the reports of any local partner involved in nursing homes. I'll mention Akureyri, for example. This is a situation that I think would have had to be handled in a clearer way now because the report of the Gylfi Magnússon group now available, and I think that just based on its findings, it would have been necessary to send the message into the environment that this problem would be taken, and it would be a real understanding of him. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u57	Mr. President. It's supposed to be understood so, like cot. A senator suggests that we expect a financial bill for the end of the council in spring. If it's not done, we have a reserve, which, in fact, is a tighter option, so I say it too. We do not minimize the problems of nursing homes, as is the case, but there are also more ways to go than just an increase in the number of days spent there, and I mention that more of the legal committee is about, in her opinion, the budget bill adopted in the autumn as the treatment of medical expenses and medical equipment. More than one way, more than just a raise in a day's expenses. A greater proportion of legal committees did not agree to determine an increase in the amount of a day's pay in advance. It is a completely different and deeper process that needs to be carried out before we take that number out of the air to fit it into a financial program. I said here before, chief. President, that we couldn't have necessarily drawn the only right number out of a so-called Gylf report, but after the seminar of an enterprise's group on welfare services today, I think that this was an understanding and support of what is taking place in the majority of the parties will go into their home with the financial programme we're working here. But the project has not left us. The project is huge. The task is to deal with people who are sicker and older and who come into homes. The average age has increased unbelievably fast in an amazingly short period of time, since the last time we took steps to improve the work conditions of the households. It's a project that we're putting into our payment now, and it's got to be figured out by them for budget making in the autumn, in addition to organizational adjustments. I think most of the classes sitting at the General Assembly spoke for setting up the group and otherwise approaching it, since we will not be able to build a room for nursing over all the elderly in the years to come. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u58	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. It wasn't in itself a question, but I'm glad to hear that people realize the seriousness of the situation. I believe that it would have been wise to give evidence in this financial program as it is that we have both acute problems and long - term problems. Of course, the urgency of the situation is the day's expenses and the operating situation that I believe is a source of unbearable and insatisfaction to most of these homes. Then I have been surprised to learn that there has been no longer any problem with the system, but it is because this demographic trend has already existed. There may be little in the environment we handle here more predictable than just the age development of society. I think it would have been better to send a clear message that it would be a more meaningful understanding of the nursing problem, since our oldest citizens spend their lifetime nights, more decisive understanding of the state of the world, as soon as a great deal of thought has been introduced about where we are going to go. I just agree with what. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson that we cannot build a nursing home for all those who enter these older age groups in the coming years and decades, so we must look to more detailed solutions. But at the moment, it seems that this group of cases, such as so many other reports under the health care department, are about to make a little trip.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u59	Mr. President. The budget is being discussed today. It's built up exactly like last time. It is built up, guided by the fact that the same government will work together in the next term. We don't know what will happen then. If I should read it, it'll work on me as a government who wants small changes and lacks a little forward vision. Mr. President. I know the basis for this financial program and that I must consider it, in view of the fact that the current five - year financial programme was adopted at the December 17, December. The underlying policy measures are materially unchanged for the 35 economic sectors and 103 financial classes that will not contribute to the material changes in the core financial agenda to the next year. The government must build a strong wood that has withered over the last few decades, perhaps particularly in the country. Investment of infrastructure throughout the country is therefore the key and it will promote innovation that will give us professional opportunities for national preparation. A new report by the Industrial Association shows that the expected increase in public investment will little more than bite the cumulative maintenance need created after the last downturn. For the condition of the interior to be considered good, an even greater force must be put in public investments, and there is a need for 420 billion dollars. As the report says, make an investment in getting them to a decent place. Unable to maintain normal maintenance needs will continue the government's financial programme. In that way, despite very extensive investments, we are actually looking forward to a recession in public investments, e.g. in Reykjavík. On the other hand, we'll be off too late. Budget planning does not include progressive suppressions in terms of major employment initiatives. Still, we are at a critical time. The situation is and has been difficult to control because of the epidemic and normal coloring the outcome. But we have to have the courage to look to the future, especially to use new tools. We have to look beyond five years of age. We must be focused on the future. It seems that tourism is supposed to save us out of this global crisis. In the long run, we need to consider how to improve the cost of tourism, a business that truly has its advantages, and how to make a benefit to the population throughout the country. However, it cannot be overlooked that the profits of many tourism companies are low and the percentage of specialized jobs is low, especially in the country. The financial agenda aims for the immediate economic recovery of 2.6% in the current year, to grow by 4.8% 2022, and then accounts for 2.8% of growth in national production to 2026. Are your prospects that positive? Is this realistic? Even the organization of tourism questions this fact. We cannot rely on one industry and look to it to save us. We have to look at the overall picture, look to sustainable development into the future with a new creation guided. According to the plan, the budget for innovation was increased this year and increased slightly according to the next year's schedule, but within two years the donations have dropped by 26% and 34% in five years. Increased funding for innovation is called for, and it takes more than two years to meet these requirements and needs. The solution to the production problem is further support to the sector, which has fallen to increase production. The answer is not to call for and start a new fund, and it actually stands for unremarkable growth in industry, which is a small increase in production and which is not ideally desirable in the country. This year the Minister of Newborns closed up a center. The aim of a minister was to cut off the public construction research and to replace a competitive fund of construction research in which companies could collect, transport measurements, testing and chemical analysis that the New Creation Centre had undertaken to the professional testing facility in a private market, transport support to pioneers in private markets, support to the public environment in the region, and establish an unsurpassed private partner to continue research in chemical, biomechanical, and related articles as the new creation center with the proposed future water quality. What do we read about it? Yes, the Ministry intends to build free service to pioneers who are to be available across the country and the digital innovation puzzle that the New World Power Center was already holding. It is also assumed that cooperation across the Ministry on Neogenic Education, that the Ministry will continue to support the project on social innovation, support for speed and innovation throughout the country, and that the Ministry will continue to support the seminary. All of the above had a new creation center in the past. Another factor to develop is a private share in the Watermelon, where high - tech technology appears to be focus. The innovation and support of pioneers must be defined in the musculoskeletal system and particularly in the country. As with so many times before, the landscape is at its backside, and the answer to a minister to meet the complaints of the country's settlements is a great smudge, the newly formed treasure of Loa. Why start another fund in which small funds are graded random and missing continued support? Mr. President. All of us agree to make use of innovation that came out of the crisis that we face. We must be progressive and look to international cooperation. We must be competitive. Clearly, now is not the time to reduce the support of innovation and technology. On the contrary, it would be wise to strengthen even more effective measures to support innovation's ecosystems and to emphasize the approach of the State to bridge gaps between research and market. At the same time, we would have reason to support the government institutions that carry out technical research and the services of the industry and have a wide range of national monitorings. The whole country should be underneath, always. Unfortunately, this is often the case, so in some parts of the country, economic development is out of harmony with the economic development of the country as a whole. Toppars and subsidies in the economy must not affect public capitals for infrastructure, e.g. In a rover, capital capitalization is often directed directly to the highest economic impact and/or to reduce official projects for the whole country. In a downturn, funding is directed to where the damage is greatest, and public work is greatly reduced. It reduces the competitiveness of land areas. With less support for innovation in commercial life and a community in the agricultural world, the country will not thrive. The capital and the country need each other. There is vast opportunities to maintain the level of service and to stimulate the root of the grasses throughout the country, rural areas, and regional groups. That should be a fundamental factor in the response to the economic situation today. A powerful balance fund is also a key factor, and it must follow pay development. I'm concerned about the potential of parts of the country outside the capital area when it comes to innovation in employment and communities with reduced support for e.g. national conventions, rural planning, travel policies and innovation policies as part of a job development work. There's a lot of opportunities, and there's a lot of persistence around the country, but if nothing gets done, people will give up. It is important to watch that innovation is not just in the high-tech sector. New creations are everywhere; food production, tourism and culture, e.g. But in order for innovation to flourish and become a professional, there will be a sound and a picture to go together. It is not enough that there is a digital port online with excellent advice that people in the country can use if there is not enough power security and if there are dangerous roads and data transfers and telecommunications, then when there is no three - point electricity when it is intended for new food production. Mr. President. According to a study performed by economists for Oxford, Smith School of Enterprise and the Environment, in May 2020, based on interviews with a third hundred experts and executives in finance conferences and money companies around the world, investments in green innovations and development and production of infrastructure and transport and distribution systems for renewable energy are among the high-mortal boosters and thus ideals during recession times. Thus, the aims of sustainability and noncarbonization are in good stead for improving quality of life and for increasing the number of jobs. These are the suggestions made by the United States to change the budget. In addition to the increase to climate, about 1 billion between the years of 20231⁄226, the representatives of the United States provide funding for green investment funds, public transport, and green innovations. The United States wants to emphasize the increased level of opportunities across the country. Resources must increase, and various resources directed toward the land must be assured for the future. Special attention must be on green employment solutions and new growing jobs. In addition, donations for innovation and development should be supplemented by 1.5 billion dollars. In 2024, about 2 billion dollars. In 2025 and 2026. The United States contributes 5 billion annual increases to climate, where these funds would be used to speed up energy exchanges, finance green investment funds, speed up projects on the city line in the capital area, increase support to urban waste, strengthen the cycle economy, and green food production. In addition, we want to make changes in agrienvironmental development to further support vegetable production and green management. Clearly, nothing less than the Union's transition proposal will be enough for Iceland to achieve its targets and to be on the lead when it comes to climate action. Suggested by the United States as much as ever. paritaprevir For example, Oddný Harðardóttir All for the sake of increasing jobs, increasing the production of green values, improving the health and safety of the people in the country, and improving the ideals of children and of the less important groups in society.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u60	A respectable president. Here we see the policy that the ruling government, the government, will follow for the next four years if it receives a prerogative course. If peers were in control, if they were in a government, and if the equal policy were guided by the government, everything here would be aimed at the fact that ordinary people, the public, could care for their basic needs and activities without reaching out for a huge debt or going into an unhearable job. This financial program is characterized by a firm belief that Kingdom funds aims solely on business and business goals, not on using a common national fund, common fund, for the benefit of the common people. I believe, Mr. President, however, that we are here to concentrate on investing in people's success. This financial program suggests that in 2023, the rate of cutdowns and tax increases is expected to begin when it is predicted to be 67% unemployment. It would be almost to take a more responsible course, to take the responsible course that we in the United States have spoken about, and to focus on not resorting too early. We want to set aside space and create peace with regard to how to divide income and raise it. We would like to distribute the burdens that are so unremarkable to the public, even though the government groups obviously want to ignore them. With this financial program, the main goal is to stop the percentage growth in debt, which shows less ambition to invest in lucrative investments, public service, more powerful social security, support to people who have lost their jobs, support to their children's families, investment in successful people. There have been no changes in the standards of health care and other government practices. Residents are as if we know how to operate or how to use it. This is especially surprising when it comes to agencies that have been neglected, even for years. As we all know, there have been challenges in the health - care system and extreme pressures because of the pandemic. Added to this is the aging of the people and at a time when all these activities are being carried out, maintenance is required. There is no injection. In 2022, 2% of general and 0.5% medical institutions, aging institutions, and schools are adopted, and 1% of general maintenance cases are held in 2023,226. According to this schedule, funding for nursing and rehabilitation services will decrease by more than 4% and this despite the age of the population mentioned and will only diminish. Now people are going to have very large years of service and need much service to keep the matter true. The United States suggests changes in financial programmes that are about to bring ideal children's families closer to what happens in the North countries, which happens in the communities we would like to assign ourselves to and be part of. In the United States, child reform begins to decline as soon as the pay has reached $351,000. per month and when the monthly salary is just over 600,000. This month there are no childhood benefits available. We in the United States want to change that. We want 600,000 parents who have a month or less had minor child support and that monthly support for children's families will be paid out. It tells itself that such things are important for people, simply to plan their finances better. We in the United States also have extensive adjustments in order to improve the interests of the elderly and the poor. We want old age and disability pensions to rise in accordance with the increase in low wages and to the cost of home payment from pension funds rising in steps up to 100,000 dollars. a month at 25,000 a.m. Finally, we want to increase the cost of employment income as well as the quality of the pensioner's income to the minimum wage insurance at any given time. We suggest that these changes take effect four steps, and the first step will be taken immediately in 2022. Once fully implemented, they will cost about 30 billion dollars. In fact, 25% goes back to the state fund in the form of taxes. It should be noted that these calculations and suggestions are based on a recent report by Ephraers. There are other compelling projects that are involved in investing in successful people, especially in terms of climate. The UN Interim Committee on Climates has estimated that 2.5% of world production is needed annually to address climate in the next few years, just to limit global warming to 1.5°C compared to the average temperature of pre- industrial revolution. It is a huge task that mankind needs to take in, and no one can turn away from it, either with Icelanders. Thus, at the Union, we contribute 5 billion annual increases to climate, where these funds would be used to speed up energy exchanges and finance green investment funds, speed up construction projects on the capital area, increase support to urban waste, strengthen the cycle economy, and green food production. We also want to make changes in agrienvironment schemes and support environment. We want to be more supportive of vegetable production and support in making Icelandic administration green. These are worthwhile goals, and I hope that these suggestions will be fulfilled. The release of Icelanders is only a fragment of global emissions, certainly, but the examples show that small countries such as Icelanders can have a powerful effect by taking the initiative, setting a good example, and promoting international changes. Intimacy with climate and employment are donations for innovation. This year's growth and slightly higher according to the next year's schedule, but as early as two years later, donations decrease by 26% and 34% in five years. Energy for the official part of innovation has dropped over the past few years, as can be read in the reviews of the road, industrial and innovations minister's legislation to destroy the New Creation Center of Iceland. We suggest increase in financial development funds, research funds, and infrastructure resources will be funded and support of the Crea so that it will not have to interfere with counter-improvement loans for innovation companies in business problems. We want to expand the contributions to innovation and development by 1.5 billion dollars. In 2024 and about 2 billion years. In 2025 and 2026. We believe that there are investments in people's successes and solutions to problems we don't yet know which are, i.e. the solutions. It is also investing in education and investing in how education can be used creatively and can be used to deal with the great threats facing mankind. One more thing I'd like to use as long as I've got here to make talk of it is the list of waitrs. Well, waiting lists are, of course, a decision. Of course, it is a decision to use a waiting list as some health - care tool, although it is difficult to see what the health will do. We'd like to fund a little effort to work on a waiting list that, of course, has grown considerably in Covid times. These are postoperative waiting lists and also waiting tables for a mental - health service in which the need has increased dramatically. According to a report published by the National Hospital for Health Services since February, the waitings for expert services and surgery have been held for the longest between 2020 and 2021 years. Therefore, a total of 3,625 subjects are waiting for surgery, while the Korean virus epidemic has had a variable impact on waiting periods after surgery. Clearly, these lists must be worked fast and well, and we must plan for them. This is intolerable for those who wait and indiscriminately wait. We propose a total of 4.4 billion. will be used to work on the waiting lists in the years 2022 and 2023. The waiting lists of mental - health services have been maintained, with significant increases between 2020 and 2021 years. A total of 1,095 individuals are now waiting for a mental - health service at LSH, and 131 children are waiting for services to be served at BUGL. The union suggests that 500 million will be given out the scheduled time to deal with the serious problems. This requires substantial support of the public living system and continued to build an unfashionable rented apartment throughout the country. The main objective of the overall housing system is increased rent - house supply and that people's housing costs will be in accordance with their ability to pay. In the United States, we suggest that in the year 20222/226, there will be 3,000 dwellings in the general apartment system and that the stock production will continue to be 3.8 billion. The year to the year 2026, as with an agreement with the Life Treaty Treaty, accounts for the year 2022. So 2 billion dollars must be added. for the budget of the year 2023◯226. Now they receive housing, with a total of 31,000 members of the household. Special housing support for tenants who receive community service is paid by the rural community. They have required changes in this and that the systems will be united. Intensifications are income and property-related compensations to those who pay interest fees for their own housing. Expansion due to growth reform results in much of the success of those who do not need it. We contribute to increasing rent improvements and changes in the quality of the growth reform system so that the funds will be more useful to people under the subsidies. A billion each year would be provided for repairs and coordinations on the housing system. I've come to a little bit more than a few changes in the Union's proposal to invest in successful people.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u61	Mr. President. Hv. A senator began his speech by describing that view of society, which I think is easy to agree with, that people should not have to go into debt just for them, that society should care for the basic needs of all of us so that we can share fully in the community. In the latter part of the terms of the term, it is not impossible to look at the actions taken by the government and wonder how it has achieved that goal. I want to, because of what. A senator on a full-scale Board of Education and has made this entire election period, asking him into one of the fairly large changes that went through the committee, which is a new education loan system, the scholarship fund of students. When the bill was discussed, we discussed the fact that there were various numerators. What is now given as strength was really just what was written before, so it was only in time, and it had to be a protection for what is called the sustainable loan system, so that creditors owe themselves to borrowing, society would have no expense. At the same time, we talked about the need to raise the basics, and it just hasn't, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]] This has not happened in the two years since we agreed on this new loan system. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask you what. A senator, regardless of the Covid situation, regardless of the fact that students have difficulty finding work now and find it difficult to make ends meet: Is this the level required by a General and Education Committee? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u62	The president asks why. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u63	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. The short answer is my opinion that it is not. As we shall remember, a certain rewarding system was established. People were rewarded for their rapid and successful course of study, but that reward was paid by students who were unable to make themselves available because of their circumstances and/or because of others'reason to have the rate of education as rapidly as was the people who were allowed to make changes in the strength of their loans. For example, many people with a painful forehead may be left behind, and especially in modern times, where unemployment is at its peak and especially difficult for young students to find work because they have long relied on many forms of service and have found it easy to engage in jobs that are not available today. Only in terms of that as a dog. The senator stopped at first. I agree with that, and that really was the point of what I said at the beginning of my speech, that being normal people in Iceland is too hard and complicated. That is still the case, and it has been for many years. Meeting basic needs, such as housing and feeding and dressing, is too difficult.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u64	Mr. President. The pressure on different social groups has intensified into Covid, and I think that one of the most pressure groups in the world is the people who are in charge of the student movement. They must have lost the figure of how many times they have come to the council with the same requirements for action to ensure the continuation of students in Covid's time. These were very simple demands; raising the basic progress from the 180,000 that it is today and securing unemployment rates, which seem strange to people who think they should be fully employed, but the fact is that 70% of Icelandic university students earn by working with a student. Today, after Covid, one third of this group struggles with serious or very serious financial problems. What does this group get? He's not getting an update on the basics, he's getting a temporary 6% stress on it if the person is under the holiday market. The financial program says that for the next budget, we may have evaluated and analyzed and done what I thought when we agreed on the Scholars' Education Act that it should be done immediately. This may happen before the next budget and thus before the study year that begins in September of the following year. So I ask, a respectable president, such as the student council president, with permission: If the call isn't answered when the emergency comes, when?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u65	A respectable president. I'll take my heart for what I'm talking about. A senator and I'll answer a question. A senator, too. I hardly intend to answer it unless I humbly allow myself to mention that such a call may be answered when peers are in charge. There is a planned change proposal from us in the United States, just to mention what follows next week for students to obtain unemployment, which is probably a legal matter, and especially because of the position many students now have. A senator said that he was fine. I certainly hope that that the suggestion will be made well.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u66	President. Hv. A senator spoke a little about an equalism in his speech and perhaps understandable. I wanted to talk to you for a second. A senator on an equal policy. I used to think I was as good a man as myself, but I don't. While consistentism is certainly important and equal, I believe that other factors are more important in today's society, which is moving toward self - efficiency, and from a much greater imbalance, and much more incorruption, which classic civilization has not responded but produced certain poverty traps. We have this classic strength that gets affected as people raise in income, and it gets a little stuck. It might well be that as demonstrated by this ideologies, more is involved in unfounded implementation, e.g., without impairment, it may well be than we see about it. After all, our work here at Congress and sustainable public finance is actually about that in the community outside, in fact, in this room, is a low unemployment, low inflation, all have a roof over their heads and have more to do with the necessities of a sustainable society. It's very simple when you say it like that. How to solve that problem is not necessarily easy, but how important is it to be solved while doing so in a reasonable way for all in the community? There you may think about it, is it necessary for a market policy, or is it necessary for an equal policy, or is it possible to mix there the right solution?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u67	A respectable president. These are many big, philosophical, and good questions. It was very interesting to hear it. A senator here declares that he does not agree with the same policy, but I think he does it to some extent. I thought why. A senator describes many things in the same policy of what he was talking about in the circumstances we want people and the public to live in a good society. It is a common misunderstanding that equalism is about doing the same to everyone. I remember that in a novel named Jón Trausti, Old Bessi, there was an equal policy in which the valley would be up, down with the mountains, and there's no such thing. It's not what's going on. Rather, it goes on to create a community that allows everyone to have the opportunity to develop and their abilities so that everyone can become the people in them that they can become, to be unscrupulous and to hold no one, and people can have the opportunity to learn and develop. The only way to create such a community is to equal the burden and quality of society. It's about paying a fair share to the community, some not letting go of paying that share, all paying fair dues and knowing they're paying a fair share, and then everyone gets something out of the common funds. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u68	President. Yeah, maybe you can hear what. A senator just sounds like an equal policy in my words, but this is only because equalism does not have the right to be reasonable. I see it just as much within the anarchist as the distribution of power as such, it's just the same objective with perhaps a slightly different approach. When you look at it very hard, the market is evenly competitive, since people are not allowed to take advantage of a particular situation in monotonousity and the like in order to get the advantage of certain systems of fairness, all of which have access. Reasonableness, and the equation as such in reasonableness, does not necessarily mean something that is in debt alone. It is not that no one else can say that he is also trying to achieve these goals but perhaps only from a slightly different angle of view, as I mentioned before, with irreprehensible progress, where we stop thinking in the decrease and focusing rather on working from the roots where people come from and what opportunity people get. These are exactly the same words as the equal policy can use, but methodology that has not been adopted by equal policy, anyway, so far, is e.g. Inadequate forwarding. That is where I may change to not being equal, but perhaps rather an anarchist, who likes to distribute the power to more people, in fact, to all through outright democracy and the likes of capital law and the likes of the match, historically seen at least, did not be overwhelmingly acceptable. But maybe she can learn and change to the future, and I wonder what I think. A senator does.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u69	A respectable president. It does not work out to make a personal right to justice itself, nor does it claim to be the only correct answer and the right course. The independent policy is a bit wide, and it is often being blamed for being vague, but equalism is vague in nature. It is designed to look at all that can benefit the common people and their life's well - being. Of course, the AIDS business has had a powerful influence, especially on Western communities after 1968, and perhaps at times it is underestimated and forgotten what a powerful force it has been in the shape of society, and it has also been a liberating force in many ways. But in order for the Arab government to succeed, it must hold hand in hand with equalism. I don't think Anarchists will ever enjoy themselves except by holding their hand in an equal policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u70	I think it's the other way around.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u71	Mr. President. Why do you feel that it is normal for people who are disabled because of need to live on incomes from the social security system to be condemned to poverty? This is what sounded like a question from a hall at a fairly remarkable assembly of the Quantum Community that went on yesterday. At this seminar, a new report by Stefán Ólafsson was introduced, once again depicting an Icelandic community that those who need support should be left behind when it comes to needed financial contributions. The interval between minimum wage and basic pensions has never been further. The damages to those who were to be cut off, and children are sent out from homes at 18 years of age, where the system calculates so that they will now have to associate their homes with their parents at the crucial time of their 18 - year - old age. It's in equal rights, Mr. President, in our rich society, which unfortunately doesn't provide the end of a government if it's controlled by the present government. A budget of 20222/226 is the government's policy for the next four years. That's what we need to remember when we enter the election in the fall, these three categories, the left movement, the green supply, the forward and the independent party, have laid the cards on the table, shown us how they envision the exchange of the goods of the country, how they envision to run the insides of society. Celebrities in the leading of elections don't change anything because this is the work that speaks. It's here that we'll see how the classes are gonna split up. This is their political vision in action. Yeah, that's how they're gonna split the cake. It was a strong and firm statement that came to the House of Destiny yesterday when Iceland's world record was discussed infringements with pensioners. World record is usually something we're proud of. But when it comes to dealing with poor people, isn't that something that Iceland's government is proud of - or what? In the United States, we simply suggest an increase in basic pensions, since pensions have not followed pay development in the country, not at all. You need to raise your basic pension. It's just that way. Judging people to poverty, as shown by the governments'actions, including In this five-year financial program, it's not a natural law, Mr. President. It is the firm political decision of these three political parties, the left green, independent party, and the forwarding party. We must remember that the decision to save on these mails leads to a great deal of cost elsewhere in another heavy system, since the welfare services are costly. And it becomes even more expensive when groups are left in poverty. Health services are also costlyly costly. Health services will also be even more expensive and heavier, a larger part of the budget, when we decide to leave groups in poverty here. Also, having a pension remove this minimum wage and tax a pension in addition in a way that leads to an increased cost of the whole system because of the poverty of these groups is a foolish move, Mr. President, because it will increase the cost of the whole system when we judge individuals to poverty, not just for these individuals, but also for their children who live in poverty and take their experience and their circumstances with them into life. This, Mr President, must stop. With regard to a financial plan, my amazing lack of ambition in terms of solutions in just costly measures, costly teams. I would prefer to mention the large part of aging, which is now increasing in the least because the nation is growing old. We are far too prone to talk about the matter as a nurse's problem and a flow problem at a land hospital. Let us stop for a moment and think how we and our neighbors would feel if we and our home were always spoken of as a problem. This is not a problem, it is an assignment, and we are under obligation to carry out that assignment zealously. For many years the government's budget for nursing care has been a subject of coverage at the General Assembly. For years we have been told that too close to the business, and for years we have been discussing the need for careful attention to the actual cost of space. That is why, Mr. President, who was welcome to receive a report of the so - called Gyline Committee for over a month ago and read black in white that operators who had been pointing to this for years, have been telling the shocking facts that the budget of the State with this legal service was not in any connection with reality, was correct. The loss of most nursing homes has been ongoing, and it does not matter who runs the home. Neither private nor rural society seems to get away financially. Of course, all of us see that this is not possible. If we do not react now, nursing homes will fail. I'm not painting the devil on the wall. This is just what we're looking at, and regardless of the Committee to Re-Elect, it shows that. This needs immediate action. V.E.G. The health minister allowed himself to discuss this well - supplied report, asked how the government responded to the shocking facts, to point out that the capital was the General Assembly, and that it was to correct the situation. Today, at a seminar at the Organizational Organization for Social Services, there was a strong point. paritaprevir In his case, Haraldur Benediktsson, vice president of the Fund Committee, saw that a government law on government finance would allow each minister to be a minister of his lawsuits and that professional ministers were concerned with money, raising, or dropping, between lawsuits and their means of achieving goals and policy. Let's just hang on a second. The Minister of Health points to the council. The vice president of the budget board points to the highest level. Secretary of health. Here at the General Assembly, there are some of the administrative groups that carry more than that. They are the cause, but they accept the budget and financial plan, such as the one we're discussing today, from the secretary of finance, and members of the left green, independent party, and forwarding a great deal of legal committees, and then receiving a change from the same minister of finance. Mr. President. I don't know who's in charge. The vice president of the legal committee points to the health minister and health minister to the council. But I think we can all agree that there's a majority of speeches here at the council. Whether it is the Ministers or more of the council, these three political parties are responsible for the situation. They're the cause. They accept financial and financial laws. Although we are signing contracts for new living conditions, we in the United States have been tireless as to the need to secure money into the business. It hasn't been done. The legal role of Iceland's Medical Insurance is to identify the cost of the services they buy, but it also seems that it has not been done sufficiently, unfortunately. All of this has been under discussion at the World Health Committee of the International Assembly during the past eight years, with reports by the National Reconclusions, KPMG and now the Gyll Committee. For example, at the aforementioned seminar today, Gylfi Magnússon, president of the Committee, told him that he had expected some reaction from the government to the facts presented in the report, but unfortunately there is no evidence. Rather, there is something more that needs to be considered. There is no sign of any financial response. There's gonna be some money here to catch something, but there's no future. Why is this important? Why do we need to take this matter seriously? Yes, because it is quite anticipated that during the years and decades, significant increases will occur in the oldest age groups aged 80 years and older. We must start thinking about these future assignments, looking also for other solutions, having much more innovation in service, and making plans for older people. You see, it is a very unwise arrangement for public funds to keep this as it is, to stop the Land hospital from people with skill and health. Also, it is not a good service to these older ones who will be allowed to live in a more home environment in their later years. We owe it to those who have built this community to a decent environment and to service in the last years. Hospital is a hospital. Despite all the wonderful health care professionals working on it, this hospital is much more expensive and expensive. According to a professional, only 5 to 10% of older people are very ill and require a lot of health care, 20 to 300% are in a more delicate position, and 50 to 60% are just healthy. We need to keep that in mind when planning for the ministry and the permanent construction of older ones. While the government has stressed home service, which is, of course, a fine price, I have recommended my concern that the jump between home - service and nursing homes is large enough to mean that there must be a decisive intention of something between living and serving. This intermediate interval is some form of service, as we know today, many of which are excellent, but we should consider this as well as an organization of government - care services and direct the light to the varied status of older people, their varied needs, and an amazing spectrum of people who are reaching this age of life, who thus have a wide variety of needs for service. Older people who live alone or possibly with a more sensitive and healthy partner often live in highly social isolation, insecurity of homes, and in the case of a mate, do more to provide care for the elderly than they do for themselves. I was talking about inadequate or unwise planning for public property. When we have people wait in Land Hospitals for months and up to a year after adequate care, a nursing home, when the place at the Land Hospital is between three and five times more expensive than a nursing home, we must see that we have run out. We need to do much better. We need courage to take greater steps to seize and render acceptable service to this group. A home service that is available even a few times every day is available, but it is not necessarily what is best for them, not for so long, because when such a service is not enough, you apply for a nursing home first. Our home should be our sanctuary safe, but many older people do not feel safe in their homes for fear of falling, being one if something happens in the evening or night, forgetting to turn off a stove, or simply fearing burglary. At that time, many would like to have more association with others than with those who do their homework and look into them from time to time. That's what we're supposed to have the guts to talk about when we're planning the money. I'd like to cut back on the emergency situation. We've been talking about the state there for the entire ideal period. Today, there are five experts who have left emergency jobs in the past few weeks. A doctor there has described the situation as completely insufficient. He says that despite much statements and reports, conditions at the emergency department, which was largely just before Covid, did not change, and viral epidemics will not be blamed. This is the situation and has been the whole term, and unfortunately, financial programs do not offer any changes. The situation is that 16 patients wait in the emergency department to get into other units to wait until they get into a nursing home. That's what I'm talking about today. Of these, there are ten who have been waiting in the emergency room for more than 24 hours. When I worked as an attorney in an emergency room for sexual and domestic abuse, a man at times had clients of all kinds, running in the tunnel among the elderly in beds waiting in the hall. There were cops, ambulances, people coming to take records, and then we lawyers, crawling in between. This is completely unacceptable, and we have to stop driving our health system like this. Experts flee to other jobs. They want to take good care of their patients, but these work conditions are, unfortunately, unacceptable professionals. We need to reorder our medical system. We must have the courage to look over and roll upon stones, but we do not do so by locking in one place before finding solutions elsewhere. I would like to remind myself of the situation involving cervical fish because it is not a solution to a lock in one place and to have patients wait for months in complete uncertainty about their health. It's this, Mr. President, offered by the Iceland government. It is also the decision of the Iceland Government -- at the same time as a child-adolescents wrestling with a long waiting list, while 150 children are on a waiting list in the child-adolescent walking ward, with an average waiting period of more than eight months, while 340 children are on a waiting list for the State's analysis and counselbook, which is designed to ensure that children with severe developmental defects receive diagnosis, counseling and other measures, while 600 children are on the waiting list of points for the Gypsy and behavioral centre - putting 600 million in mental services for children and young people at the same time for travel. I don't know who was calling after the transfer. It may be an urgent provision for public funds, but when you look at it in black on white, more than half the money is set aside by the government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, at 5,000 bucks. a check that people can use at gas stations or some tourist attractions for the country, but in essential health care for children and young people who have mental problems, you do not understand the priorities of the government. [[The president calls.]] Finally, Mr. President, I would like to point to the preposterous situation offered to the Southnes when they do not have access to health care.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u72	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the story, which clearly indicated why. A senator is the chairman of a welfare committee; she stressed that matter. So I would like to ask questions about these matters in particular. At the beginning of the ideal period, a restoration of the health system was announced. I don't know if we would use the same strong words now that we finally reached an elected period to describe what has happened. I would like to ask the senator in particular what is said about the contribution made to the health - care system in terms of more of the legal committee. On the other hand, it says that increased power is being put into operation in a new hospital, but it says a few pages back to the end that most will be about 5 billion dollars. increase in hospital service, which is mainly explained by annual transfer in the construction of a new land hospital. Increase in power is not the same as staging on budgets because projects have only taken longer than they can say. I'd like to know if this vocabulary reflects something. A senator of recent medical procedures has been described, how the word is often larger than the actions, and in the light of all the long list of waitings. A member of the Sanhedrin took the lead in giving a talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u73	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Rebuilding the health system - my experience with this condition is that governments are in a perfect shelter because of a pandemic crown virus. It is as if the virus is dejected or because there were such wonderful projects in the seminary, it is granted permission to neglect all other aspects of it. Of course, the most clear exposé of such a lawsuit is the complete increase in the size of that government. When a woman with postpartum depression needs to wait for months after a single psychological interview on the health care unit, she usually has access to some health care facility, it tells me that this is not an adequate service. When a child in distress has to wait for months to be served in the Pediatrics Department, it tells us that this is not a priority. I've only talked about mental health now, but they're just so big and they're all over the system. And again I say, the wrong end has begun. [[The president calls.]] I'll keep telling you about this, okay? Senator, next door.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u74	Mr. President. It was a good thing to do. Because I want to mention just one of them, a member of the body would be able to bring in a mental health problem. I got the answer to a question about a Marine Hospital at the start of the year and considering the last five years, it turns out that the team is a quarter less today than it was five years ago. The team has a housing problem, and since three years ago they have escaped from mold - contaminated shelters. The number of waiting lists has increased by seven times over the five years, so waiting time for the team's service is 18 in the next 20 months. At that time, a relatively mild eating disorder can fester in a person to become a serious problem that takes much more time to master it. So that's where we save the money, but throw it away. It is also taking a chance with people's health and life. Hv. A senator spoke about shelter over a pandemic, and we can look at the measures we have taken because of the epidemic. There, I would especially like to mention a number of factors. A senator stressed this point last year, which was that parents of long - suffering children received wages while their children could not be in school or out of day or where they were usually in the day. These people had duties to care for their children and thus lost their reward. What refuge did these people receive during a pandemic?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u75	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for later an answer. It's all about priorities. Of course, here we are talking about the big movie. We're talking about a financial plan for the next five years, but not exactly where the money should go each time. Yet, it cannot be overlooked that this is the policy plan, and if people are not going to place extra money on certain classes, they are being held in the same budget, they will be called for, they're going to go into big business, they're going to get the money off somewhere else. Speaking of the eating team, and an eating disorder that's a mental disorder, there's no psychiatrist working there today. The team has been affected. The sending of people to an emergency, suicide risk, service, and telling them to come back on Monday when the opening is opened, and possibly then someone to talk to the person, is simply out of place. To increase the rate of mental health is a fine price, but it is not available at the same time to reduce the amount of service elsewhere. When what's supposed to be additional, anywhere in the system, comes from the government so that there's new resources that start with, but undermined by older measures, it just leads to much more damage to the whole system, as I entered my speech. [[The president calls.]] It's just a political decision, huh? A senator, and its members, the government, and its members are responsible for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u76	A respectable president. At the end of this discussion about financial plans, many things have been said. In regard to the material discussion of the big film in the plan, I am content to refer to a fine second opinion of a smaller section of the budget committee, which I recall. paritaprevir A ship with Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson is well versed in key points to be pointed out in the program. I'd like to mention, though, just because I was reminded of something. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy used to mention earlier today that the terms of financial planning, the rules on which these plans are based, had been temporarily altered by Covid, that we have to keep open to the fact that some of these changes may be reasonable, at least partial, permanent, e.g. reviewing the principle of debt so that we are not struggling to have the most ambitious debt in Europe. The 60% that I recall was raised by Covid are in a similar roleum and are walking and occurring within the European Union of the normal year. There is something that we may take to the future as a lesson. Besides, I have to mention what seemed so strange to me when I handed over this Senate resolution for the first time. I saw that it was missing the policy because it has only recently been adopted since December. It's funny because the financial strategy that came to the council in the late autumn was not as profound as it was in the usual year. The situation in terms of budgetary problems and uncertainty led to the failure of the changes between budgets in most sectors. Now there is no change, so we just didn't have to print the course on the back of the plan. However, it does not change that this is a plan for the next five years that actually builds on a year - even a two - year - old foundation when it begins to take effect. Of course, you can excuse and explain with a strange situation about Covid, but I would have liked to see some clearer policy in this document. I said the opposite of what. paritaprevir Helga Salva Helgadóttir something I'd like to mention again, which is expressed in the opinion of a greater part of the budget committee and I feel reflected -- what do we call this, optimism? No, I'd better read this, Mr. President. On the one hand, it says that increased power is being implemented in a new hospital, but it explains that most of the increase is about 5 billion in hospital service, which is mainly explained by annual application in the construction of a new hospital. It is as if there are such a rich will to show positive developments in this program that even the provision of money, which simply becomes because of the slow digging of shallows or buying concrete or whatever steps are involved in fostering land hospitals, are said to indicate increased power in the project. Maybe it smells like an election, I don't know. But I'd like to, because there's been a lot of the big stuff here, to focus on the specific fields that are huge and that's the climate. You see, Mr. President, contributions to climate are actually the only thing that changes into this financial program from the last one. Here is a box indicating an increase in climate costs of about 10 billion to 2031. It's kind of strange to put in that conversation over a decade ago in a five-year plan, it looks a little better. This addition is said to be to meet them, including the following: that Iceland's target of migrating greenhouse gas emissions has been expanded. That's what we discussed in December. I spoke to the highest level of the conversation. Environment and resource secretary on the day of the effort, the objective finally returned to the UN Climate Convention. It is important, Mr. President, that we maintain that our hard aims are not as hard as they seem. Nor do they have to be as hard as they would have to be because the 55% reduction the European Union concluded at the end of the last year was the result of a leader of different stakeholders in the Union and was returning from what the European Parliament had originally proposed, where the Environment Committee proposed for Congress to restore to 60%. Well, Mr. President, in the European Union, there are countries that are badly dependent on coal addiction and that were able to pull this ambition from 60% to 55%, but 60% would not have done so. Greenpeace points out, for example. that it would be the minimum of 65% of the emissions, and that, Mr. President, we are not talking about politics. We are not talking about political compromises on this figure. No, the 65 percent suggested by Greenpeace is just a question of physics. This is a matter of physics in the atmosphere, which determines whether we can keep the earth warm within 1.5° or not. It is simply so that at physics it is very difficult for the European Union to bargain, and it took a while. Because the European Union's government was always waiting for its conclusions, they fell at a time with climate agreements. The government was to provide its target of recession, an updated target, as to be done every five years, in February of last year, but in its case in February of this year. Norway, on the other hand, in the same position as Iceland, which EFTA states outside the European Union, did not expect the results to come in a tie between coal addicts and their more ambitious European countries, but gave their own national targets for emissions reduction. Iceland has no such thing. Iceland has the goal that the European Union will reduce its emissions by 55% and that Iceland will receive some percentage based on it, probably lower compared to experience. The problem with this delay, however, is that the more ambitious aims were not included in the climate initiatives published last summer and not in the financial program proposed in December. Instead, we have a number that is hard to see how to reflect an increase in ambition from 40% to 55%, as goes well in the committee Leví. Gunnarsson This 1 billion is designed to produce more contractions than the 13 billion already in a financial program of the climate. Hv. By means of a simple arithmetic, a member of the body of elders finds that this $1 billion would go up to 4 billion and actually just build on the terms of the government. But it may be nice to mention them for fun that according to a United Nations Climate Convention, the Scientific Council of IPCC, and the calculations of OECD may be closer to 4% of the world's GDP taking action in climate matters over the next few years. Then we have another simple account account, estimated in 2022 that 13.3 billion are involved in the activities of the climate. It is estimated to be 0.4% of GDP in that year. The ambition is a tenth of what it would have to be according to the United Nations. It should be noted, however, that in these numbers there may be a number of contributions that may have a positive effect on the climate. Nearly half of this action is taxable to cars, including link trucks that have been shown to be able to eliminate more or at least as much carbon dioxide as fuel trucks that people would otherwise buy so that the climate assessment of these billions is perhaps less than it might be. What follows is that these are not all measures that count even into Iceland's commitment to the Paris Convention. Here we have, 5 of these 10 billion, which runs in natural solutions to climate and climate - related agriculture. Much of this money will go to forestry, land - healing, and recovery of wetlands, which are all excellent measures but may be considered to differ in Iceland's commitments, some of which are nothing, and are also not going to be successful until after 2030 when we have submitted to the Paris Convention. A tree planted in 2022 will not be able to bind very much carbon dioxide from the atmosphere in 2030. That's how it works. What is also interesting about this box on climate expenses is that it is indeed reaching record in 2022 to 13.3 billion, and then it begins to decrease the rest of the budget. I fully understand that it is not possible to have a complete plot of action when the government calculates by being possibly out of control, not being planning things for the next management board, but the situation is still that the climate change strategy reaches 2030, but the measures begin to disappear in 2020 in a financial programme. Perhaps we could have avoided the problem, if the government hadn't waited so long for the European Union to compromise with physics, that the Iceland government was temporarily losing control of the climate agreement. Perhaps we would be on better terms with this if a climate action plan reflected the increased ambitions the European Union took together at the end of the year and Iceland came along. This was about the climate situation, but then I'd like to give it a short time, Mr. President, just in the end, to review the changes I made in the Senate hearing of a financial program in December, where I had followed up in the plan and in protest to the Minister of Justice that it would have been decided not to set up by an independent national rights agency in view that she was not expected in a financial programme. Then I saw a game at the table that we would simply expect it to be in a financial programme, and I proposed a change in budgets for the institution of 60 million each year that the Ministry of Justice had estimated that the Agency would cost when she introduced a few years ago plans to set up an independent domestic rights agency. The proposal was made here at a council hall, if I recall correctly, the votes of the management and the help of the members of the Central Party. But in February, the government decided to appoint a team to update the ideas of an independent national rights institution, as the existence of such an institution would be necessary to fulfill Iceland's international commitments on human rights. It was all very familiar, but it says, with the permission of a president: Since the current budget does not plan for financial support, there is a need to look for ways to establish the Agency and ensure future operations within the total budget of the state's budget. This is natural bullshit. It's just bullshit to teach a financial program that an institution cannot be established for as long as it has been available when the members of the Parliament are able to correct it and to increase the amount of expenses needed for the 60 million people. [[The president calls.]] That's why, Mr. President, I'm glad to know that it's suggested at the Committee to Re-Elect Porita.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u77	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a committee party with a motion to conduct a resolution on the growth of the cooperation of Greenland and Iceland. This is the common opinion of the State Department. The committee has discussed the matter, and we have received a number of people at our meeting, including the U.S.A. from recruitment and institutions. They even got the committee. reviews from the Arctic Circle of the North, the University of Iceland, the University of Akureyri, and others. The proposal calls for a cross-country between the countries of Iceland and Greenland, in agreement with stakeholders on targets of specific cooperation areas. The report briefly discusses the Greenland Commission report, the Joint Work of Greenland and Iceland in new northern regions, which contains 99 suggestions to increase cooperation between countries in the field of government, rural society, institutions, private members, free partners, sports, art, and culture. Ten of these suggestions are so specificly put forward as top priority. Advertisers expressed their full satisfaction with the proposal and rejoiced with plans for increased cooperation between Iceland and Greenland. However, the source of William, the son of Stephen, was critical of the importance of Icelandic interests in the Senate arrangement. It called for an equal shape of national communication agreement and taking into account the interests of the Greenlands as well as the welfare of the Icelanders. The reviews specifically discussed the proposals of the Greenland Committee that are involved in cooperation in the field of education, research, and science. One of the ten motions of the report for policy purposes turns to the development of telecommunications in the cooperation of the University of Akureyri and the University of Nuuk. Commenting on the University of Akureyri, the school had a successful partnership with the University of Nuuk on the induction of telecommunications. The report of the Northern Islands called for the support of existing cooperation between Iceland and Greenland, but the review of Iceland's University repeatedly made it important for all the institutions of the country to have the opportunity to participate in this educational cooperation in the field. It pointed out that in order to offer a wide range of study opportunities, it would be necessary to get Iceland's University into this cooperation. The Committee specifically welcomes the publication of this report, which is a comprehensive and comprehensive analysis of the state of Greenland in international affairs and a review of the communications between Greenland and Iceland. The report points to a wide range of opportunities for cooperation between countries, e.g. on the scene of administrative, social, infrastructure, fishing, and tourism. The synonyms of the Convention show that the Convention's Convention Convention of Iceland will highlight the challenges of the report's proposals. As mentioned above, a 99 - year report by the Branch Committee of Greenland suggests that there is an increase in cooperation. Neither in the Parliament's decree nor in the paper, a decision is made to determine which of these proposals will be proposed or which will be put in place at the assembly of the Convention on Cooperation Between the Two Nations. Thus, the Commission concluded that Iceland's negotiation aims will be further developed in consultation with stakeholders and negotiations with Greenland itself. The proposals of the Greenland Committee's report will be taken into account in the negotiation, but it is not required in the Senate hearing that all of them will be successful. Therefore, the Committee does not consider it a reason to address some specific suggestions in the Greenland Commission report presented as a package of this synonym. However, the national Framework Convention will take into account the interest and priorities of the Greenlands as well as of the Icelanders and will eventually be served under the General Assembly in due course. Finally, the Committee welcomes the Declaration of Will, which includes a proposal for a resolution to increase the cooperation of Iceland and Greenland and describes its support of the implementation of a national frame deal. The Commission emphasizes the importance of strengthening the cooperation of the two countries, especially in view of the growing interest of the superpowers in the north. The Commission, in turn, encourages the secretary of state and development to have effective consultation with stakeholders and with the Allied Parliament at the Convention's Convention on Increasing Communications between Greenland and Iceland. According to the above, the Commission suggests that the proposal will be agreed with the following changes: The 3rd and 4 stipulation of the proposal is as follows: On the part of Iceland, the classes discussed in the Greenland Commission report and its suggestions will be considered. The Treaty also includes full consideration for the Greenlandic self - control laws. Signed on May 26, 2021, at the General Assembly. Councilmen Sigríður Á. Andersen, president of the United States, Njáll of Logi Trausti Trausti, Brístís Haraldsdóttir, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Njálít Friiðtir Friðbertsson, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynjolfótsdótir and Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gónsdonsdotir. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir, who was absent from the case, signed this in accordance with the authority of the Universal Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-27-102.u78	Mr. President. I recommend here to the Committee Animatement that changes the bill's proposal to correct a variety of fish farms, food and agriculture laws (complication of regulations). The bill suggests changes in laws in order to simplify regulations in the field of fish farming, food, and agriculture. It is suggested that the work environment in fish farming will be simplified, particularly for smaller producers, as well as the proposed changes to various laws aimed at improving the effectiveness of management and explaining regulations for the benefit of employment and society. The bill is a part of the third and final action programme on a simple regular work in the marine and agricultural sectors, and is agreed with the Environment and Resource Ministry, Food Agency and the Environment Agency. Other points on the subject and the objective of the bill are referred to in a series of articles. Regarding the background of the changes the committee's proposals bring to the 2nd. To begin with, I would like to mention a simple management of smaller fish farm members. Changes in fish farming laws are made that are to be met by the smallest event in fish farms, i.e. land supply with up to 20 tons of maximum life mass, as the function does not depend on environmental impact assessment. Instead of a license requirement, a part of such action will be registered and thus reduce the costs of license partying to smaller parties. The requirements and grounds of such registration will be clearly stated in the Regulation. The majority of them consider that there are positive changes to the simple management of smaller fish farms, as well as the importance of distinguishing between fish farms and smaller farms. In this case, to the Commission's further discussion. In the 18th. The bill is presented with a change to 63rd par. the legislation on the nature protection involved in the import of living alien species. The EEA's review shows that it needs to be explained if the change is suggested to bring down the 2nd case 1st. of the law or of the third matter. In view of the Agency's opinion, the 2nd case, which is authorised to prohibit the import of a foreign organism, should not be eliminated. They need to correct the references to the paragraphs in the bill article. The major part points to a range of 18 points. The bill is suggested to refer to the 2nd stanzas of the 1st issue. Sixty-three. the law on nature protection changes and becomes what it says. If the bill is legal, the 2nd issue will be removed from the current law, but it will not be the 3rd matter. The majority also point out that according to b-axis 18. The bill comes a new paragraph after 1. the law that replaces the current 2nd issue. Fourth, the Committee discussed changes in the order of the Precinct on the well - being of animals. With 26. The bill is submitted to the change to Article 5. Legal procedures for the well - being of animals, Ministers, rather than the currently existing animal arrangement, are responsible for the well - being of the animal. In accordance with local regulations, the minister of the Council's Order, while other representatives other than the chairman, are appointed by Iceland's Basis, Iceland's Animal Protection Association, and Iceland's National Institute of Morality. The Committee concluded that such a change was a step back in animal traffic, where professional opinions of effective management might be at risk. The report on the bill shows that a minister of the Council is expected to be a member of the Council in view of professional factors and that the members in the current legislation will generally be consulted. The majority of them consider it important that the animal protection grounds are in the pre-requisite order in the animal welfare programme and that it is noted that a minister should continue to consult the relevant legislation and that other competent authorities can be consulted in the topic field. A respectable president. Then comes the committee's program tore up the adjustments we make as a result of the coverage I have been tracking. First, there is a change in fish farming law where we control the subject I read earlier, secondly a change in mountaineer law, and third, a change in the law on food that I want to make more clear. The majority, at the request of the Ministry, suggest a change of 13. f fixed food. The proposal is made in agreement with the emphasis on promoting farms'potential for producing and selling products directly from farms to strengthen the value and survival of their material resources. To further support for this change, please refer to the new regulations for the implementation of home slaughterhouses and their monitoring costs related to them. The Commission also makes a transition proposal for the establishment of a partner on a silencing committee and setting up for the silencing road, No. 43/1998. There are two funds, according to 8 and 9 pars. The law. The greater part suggests that the law will be removed in its entirety, with no longer the purpose laid out when set up in 1998. According to the Ministry it's gonna be an 8th fund property. Then make arrangements for the state funds. The law assumed that each year the funds could be set aside for silencing research, and it suggests that a greater proportion will need to ensure an increase in the range of the EECU by about 10◯12 billion. K. Annually to be used for the testing of the up-to-date databases. Sead at 9 o'clock. Work in the organizational order. A respectable president. So I have traced the Commission's proposals, and under this view, a greater part of the committee is written; Director Lilja Rafney Magny Magnúsdóttir, President Ásmundur Friður Friðriksson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjándænsdóttsson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, Ólafur Ísleifsson, and Sigurður Páll Jónsson.
