ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-118.u1	President of the United States reports: The Minister of Peace has told me that it is necessary for the proposed General elections in September to convene the first to correct errors that occurred during Congress and to pay the legal rules on the list of political parties during the recent spring election. Therefore, as directed by the prime minister, I have determined that the Council shall come together to the subsequent meeting on Tuesday, July 6, 2021. 11th To Reykjavík, July 2nd, 2021. The Guðni of Th. Jóhannesson. Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Presidential Letters for the Council to meet for an extended meeting. I offer the highest. President and w. Allied members welcome to meetings in these unusual circumstances.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-118.u2	Hv. All council members. After the conference was delayed on the night of June 13, the death of two former members of the council, Dr. Bragi Níelsson's son Brian Niel, June 13, and engineer Gunnar Birgisson, June 14. They'll be remembered. Bragi Níelsson's son was born on Soynsk, February 16, 1926, so he was in the age of 96, the oldest of all former generals. His parents were Níels Jónsson's workman, and Ingiríður was the daughter of Hjálmarsdóttir, a housewife, and a maid. Bragi finished a student exam from Akureyri High School in 1947 and a medical test at the University of Iceland in 1957. He acquired expert doctrine in anaesthesia and anaesthesia, and he worked most of the time on those jobs as well as on general cures. He was counted among the pioneers of his special field, and he was respected by class brothers. As early as 1958, Braggi began Bragi work at the Aranesp Hospital, where his field of work was then, with brief breaks. Bragi Níelsson's son worked for a long time within the Allied Party of Aquilin, and he served as a deputy representative for him for several years. In 1978, this well - valued physician was appointed to the second office of the Western national candidate list and obtained an unexpected seat after the great election of the Democratic Party that year. Congress was broken in the fall of 1979, a period of over a year, and elections were held in December. At that time, Bragi chose to step aside from the council and to serve at home in the field. Thus, his congregation became brief, two legislatures, and another lasted just a few days. At the General Assembly, Bragi sat on a health and insurance committee, which was mainly involved. Bragi Níelsson's son was popular in the home, both for the medical work and for the attitude of the medical community, a pleasant and joyful association, a calm and trustworthy person. He was always active when he was not specifically reaching out for direction or goals, as well as in his field of education.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-118.u3	Then, on June 14, Gunnar, the son of Birgisson, who died, will be remembered. Gunnar took a student test from the University of High School in Reykjavík outside of school in 1972, then completed a test in engineering from Iceland's University, a master's test of construction in Edinborg, and finally a test of soil engineering from the University of Missouri, U.S.A., 1983. Along with his studies, Gunnar pursued various forms of work and began to work as an engineer when a university test ended here and worked as such in the 1920's, far as Gunnar and Guðmunds hf. and Clothes ehf. At the same time, he was in charge of the Icelandic Labour Association and Employers' Union. In 1990, Gunnar Birgisson became the point of independence in Kópavogi, and he began to have a long, eventful, public career. He became president of the Council of Kopavog's Council of Town at a time of great rise and later the mayor of the city in 2005◯2009. After a couple of years of counseling, Gunnar became mayor of the Mountain Farm with a home on Siglusar in 2015 ◯2019 and finally temporarily in a band manager of the Taftár Jeep in 2020. For other jobs Gunnar also ran his own engineering firm. Gunnar became a deputy member of the Independence Party in the 1991 Rhivian District and once took up residence at the General Assembly in the fall of 1992. In the 1999 election, he received a standing place and sat in total at 10 legislatures. Gunnar died of Congress in 2006. Here at the General Assembly, Gunnar became president of the Education Committee. He was well - acquainted with various cases in the area of local government and was also a member of the community. The head of the board for 18 years, from 1991. He was also a member of the Economic and Business Committee for a number of Parliaments, as well as an environmental committee, but he always acted on environmental and organizational matters. At that time, he was chairman of the EFTA Committee of the Council of 2003◯2005. Gunnar Birgisson did not make himself frequent in the Senate symposium, but he would rather let his work speak. That was his way all along. Yet, he was clear and logical when he spoke up at the General Assembly. While many people thought he was rough on the outside, those who knew him compared his kindness, warmth, and joy to their familiar acquaintance. Gunnar was complete in cooperation, blunt, clean, and direct, while following their own opinions and closely following them. It was not given for amas, it was clear to men and issues, especially numbers, and whatever else we were dealing with each time. His skill was great. Gunnar loved the bridge and chess all her life, sometimes playing cards or playing chess at the Assembly Hall when there was nothing to do with it and then few were able to reverse it. A large number of aided by a well - trained and well - trained leader was the general Assembly. I pray to the assembly to remember the son of Bragi, the son of Níelsson, and Gunnar the son of Birgisson, by his standing up. - [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-118.u4	A meeting is held at the General Assembly. I'll tell you what. All council members welcome to work during this summer session, as well as to greet the staff of the Generals. Borist has a letter from the secretary of state and collaboration requiring deadlines to provide written answers to the notices; on panels. 9.0, for counseling services, for contractors and temporary projects, from Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson; on deck. 1147, on legal advice, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson; on a threshing floor. 1378 of Iceland's database requirements, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson; on deck. 1571, of the number of proposed EU regulations, from Gunnar Sveinsson Svenson; on deck. 1593, for the costs of foreign ministers, from the Þorsteinn of Seystein, the Sæmundsson of Seymund; and on the threshing floor. 1449 of the EEA types, Sigríður Á. Andersen.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-07-06-118.u5	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize the laws of political organizations, No. 162/2006, with subsequent changes, letters of art, and contributions to political organizations. The case is brought by a management and monitoring committee according to indications that we received some changes in the law in spring. When a letter of art was transferred from election law to this code, the last minute from the Ministry to postpone its implementation, i.e. that it would be a legal force on political organizations until January 1 next year. It was forgotten, however, that the law would also have to be delayed. This is a mistake that can often happen to legalize, and it is usually just corrected by the next council, but this time it can't be done because if we don't fix it now, there won't be any elections, and we can't fix it at the next assembly, so we're going to do this right now. I'll go over the report then. For political treatment of bill to legalize the financial exchange of political parties and candidates and their information rights, No. 162/2006, at the current legislature (j. 1,137, 668th paragraph) was the standard of pars 38th. the Treaty of the General's election of the Arts of Political Associations, without the simultaneous implementation of the equivalent political law. This inconsistencies was not evident until after the law had been adopted at the Council. At contributions of the aforementioned bill to legalize the financial reform laws of political organizations and candidates and to their information and bill for a new campaign at the General Assembly. A total of 401, 339 cases) were expected to be provided concomitantly and inclusive with the two bills. Rather than measuring for vote letters, such regulations as political and political parties and the information rights of the former bill were entitled to be a law on political organizations, and to the information rights of those who approved the earlier bill on June 13, 2021. The office of a new campaign was then delayed until the New Year's Eve, but political organizations were to be established immediately. A list letter was found in the 38th chapter of the book. a law of elections to the Generals and had recently made changes in that law. Hence, the new law on the letter of 2 paragraphs was instituted. a law on political activities delayed according to the change in administration and monitoring committees' proposals. Concomitant changes were not allowed to take out the same criteria for withdrawal of VIII. a section of the Act on elections for the Generals, the states of politics. So there will be no unchanged law on the art code in force from the values of the law on the change in financial affairs of politics and candidates and on their information rights to January 1, 2022. Nevertheless, there is a legal law on political affairs to find provision for temporary II, which determines how to apply for a letter of art for the coming General elections, which is referred to in Article 2. The law on an art letter that doesn't go into effect until January 1st, 2022. This is the key and the reason why the council had to meet, as was the case in English at the beginning of the talk. Furthermore, there is inconsistencies between the implementation of the new Article 5. a in the financial laws of political organizations approved on June 13, 2021, for official support to political organizations, and for the conditions referred to in this article. Unable, however, the article will take effect when the values, but the criteria referred to in the law on the registration of political organizations, will not be valid until the end of the year. It is therefore suggested to set up temporary regulations that, despite the current criteria for intervention, there is no requirement for registration of political organizations due to 2021. This is another factor that is being addressed at the same time, since we now had to gather a council, so that the order of the art books would be in effect when elections become an election in the fall. The bill suggests the following adjustments. First, that there will not be a condition for the distribution of the state funds and from rural areas for 2021 that political organizations have previously been enrolled in a political body. Second, the inclusion of regulations for temporary II in the law is proposed, as third is suggested to add elections to the Allegorical Code on the Art Code, which is comparable to the earlier regulations of the 38th chapter. the laws, as well as the changes made in the regulations agreed by the Council of June 2, 2021, which had previously been excommunicated from the law. In accordance with that change, it is also suggested that a reference to a command on a letter to 32 st. and 43rd. Act of the election for the Generals. Finally, the change is proposed to delay the implementation of provisional regulations for temporary III in the law. The changes proposed to elections at Generals, No. 24/2000, in nature, is temporary in view of the implementation of a new election law on January 1, 2022. Therefore, it is not necessary to set limits on regulations 37 g. a latter of the law, as in section 5. the bill of this, the time to the age of the year. In accordance with the vote of the election, the election votes are scheduled in the fall of 2021, as well as its postponement and elections, the election's election and the decision of the Council on the terms of elections, No. 24/2000. This is what it's all about. This means that what was supposed to be inside, the order of art, which was transferred from election law to political law, will be active in the fall. It's all made up of a preliminary change in political organizations, but it's not entirely out of force in the terms of the election that are still in effect because of the overall re-evaluation of the election laws we were making in spring taking effect after the New Year's Eve. These changes mean that we can have elections in the fall, and there will be agreements in the law at the time of the switch, and we will go over to the total revised law, which will take effect right in the new year. I suggest, since the committee's delivering the case and there's no need to go back to committee 2rd.
