ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u1	Borist has received a letter from the Ministry of Education and Culture where request is made to provide a written answer for the application of the spell. 861, about a number of students in trade and toil studies, from the Birks Bjarkey of Olsen Gunnarsdóttir. A letter has also been received from the travel, industrial, and innovation secretary where request is made to provide a written answer for the requested query. 784, for competitive surveillance, from Björn Leví the son of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u2	Mr. President. The government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, has now approved a four - month budget in which the nursing facility has allotted funds. Civil society has long expressed concern for this situation, and the organization has repeatedly offered suggestions for improvement, all of which have been dropped. The government, however, must be at the expense of nursing homes, while about one third of the country's nursing homes are run by rural communities by a contract with Iceland's Medical Insurance. As a result of this lack of government in recent years, rural society has had to pay billions of dollars on top of it in order to ensure a decent service in the country to which the State is responsible. There's an area in Akureyri that has, like, one. Pay up to 2 billion in town's nursing homes in the last eight years. At that time, four rural communities, Akureyri City, West Side, Cape and Far East have been forced to cancel their contracts. More rural areas are now considering their status as a nursing home for these communities with serious business problems. Mr. President. Here we are discussing the home of old people who no one yet knows how to secure a business between May 1 and May, at least. In Akureyri. As far as Iceland's Medical Insurance attempts to force the four rural communities who have quit contracts to continue business without enough money. The lack of advice and response of the Agency on this matter seems pathetic, Mr. President. So I ask the highest. A minister whether she finds this method acceptable and whether or not she intends to step in so that the elderly can be given adequate service and security wherever they live in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u3	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Now it is, like, cot. A senator knows likely, that a working group was appointed to the summer end of last year, after my initiative, which is the task of identifying the physical data on the management and management of a nursing home. Why was this done? This was done because of the government's policy to support the staff of the nursing homes. In addition, the directive complies with an agreement between Iceland's Medical Insurance, the European Union and the European Community in the welfare services signed by all agents in December 2019. Gylfi Magnússon led this group, and I expect his conclusion within a few weeks. I do not deny that despite the activities of this group, I am disappointed that, despite the integrity of those who are so important at work, the underlying tone of relations between parties is public, and the political scene is about chaos. I am disappointed because it is absolutely clear that as health - care minister, I give high priority to convincing and acceptable data coming out of this work that can be used. Wait a minute. A senator must be careful not to go out of his political way to back up a word here on the fine staff of health insurance in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u4	Mr. President. Here I am simply not going out of my way, and I do not lean on any word. It's been in the past for years, and 2016 stepped to the highest level. One step that was recognized by everyone as having to be more is that of a health minister who brought more money into the business. It's been in the past for the most recent time. Secretary of health. The government is simply responsible for the care of the elderly, and today's expenses simply do not cover the business today. It's hardly enough for remuneration. By not paying cohesive funds from a government fund, local communities are paying off their money back to the State, which is not their place. When rural society puts money into this business that they are not supposed to need, they are simply deducting other litigations, children, and adolescents, and the leisure of older citizens. It will not be a pleasure, the highest. Secretary of health.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u5	A respectable president. So that there's any fairness to be careful, I think it's the right thing to say. A senator should be advised that many steps have been taken during this most ideal period of nursing. We've done special experiment work on a more flexible day. We have increased the number of day - to - day calendars and special calendars. We have given increased emphasis to home nursing, which we have built up in a handsome way, including the family. to work with Reykjavíkurburg. These steps have been taken, and all of them are important in the big picture. It's not good for a respectable president to mention a number. I think that's what we have in common, me and the other. Senator, be friends with state funds. Hence, it is not enough to mention just a number. Rather, it is necessary to have a clear analysis and the basis for it when we decide to pay money from a wealth rather than a figure that someone can think of. I think we should agree that we need to do our job carefully and carefully.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u6	A respectable president. A hundred people a month full of their unemployment rights and already a thousand people, last year, fell out of unemployment benefits at the Labour Office, and it takes two years to earn their rights back. Clearly, the government's problem is to be transferred to the countryside. About 30% more or more in 500 called for financial support from Reykjavíkurburg and 300 on Smokejanes. Most of those who lose their rights apply for the financial support of rural society, but their communities have no control over the problem. At the same time as the highest. He and the government are not able to help those who have paid millions of dollars for their money and who are not aware of their speech. Millions of donations, but those who fall out of relief, have no hope of food, clothing, or shelter. There's been a short gap between those with primary education and college education on unemployment benefits, that's sort of the same group. The darkness grows and we have to start doing something for these people. We can't throw people into God's house and say to them, "You don't get anything, so nothing." If people go to the countryside and one side has some income, they don't get anything. They don't even get 340,000 bucks. There's nothing to it because he has a dollar against a dollar. That's why I say, "What's the ultimate?" Minister of Social Affairs and Child Affairs to do things for these people? Is the government's problem being handled by societies? Is it not time for the State to deal with their own problems?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u7	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this inquiry. We have continued to take various measures to control the situation of people who are unemployed. I've said it and I'll say it here for individuals who have been out of work for 30 months that one is to ensure their implementation, whether in cooperation with state and rural society or in extending rights. There are various ways to do this. The other is to get them into some kind of activity. When a person has been out of work for about 30 months or for some 900 days, it is extremely important that we control how we get him into some activity while securing what we provide. We've been working on these people for the past few weeks to form some kind of operation in order to help them get to work and ensure that they're also involved. It is my hope that in the next two weeks we will be able to introduce something to them because I am not the solution simply to extend the rights of reform. Once an individual is finished, I repeat it again, out of work for 30 months, we are more likely to have some sort of social problem, and as a society, we are to be taken care of by the individual; the state, our rural society, and as a result of business experiences. We've had many operations, and I agree with what. Senator, we've been working with the European Union and we've been maping this group better. I hope that any action will be introduced in the next few days or weeks.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u8	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for Answers, but I don't really understand them because he's talking about efficiency. In what? Where are people to get a job? Now the largest unemployment in the country's history, and we're making a record, for the first time, we have more unemployment than the rest of the North countries. Then he talks about efficiency. People don't live on talk about activity. We have to do something because people live by what they get. These people don't get a cent, not a cent. If a couple and one of them were working, the other invalid, they are not allowed in. At the minimum, nobody gets anything if they put him out of this unemployment system. As a result, people are being put on the deck. At the same time, paying back billions of dollars is not a problem. Why do they need help, but can they not be helped? Why is this so difficult?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u9	A respectable president. Of course, the government has been tracking the situation of this epidemic and working since at some point we're going to see the tourism get started. The reason for the high unemployment in this country is, in particular, the large part of our tourism in the economy of Iceland. In my case earlier, I spoke of both progressiveness and efficiency. I believe that as a community we have an obligation to ensure the implementation of the individuals who have been working without a job for 30 months, helping them with that, whether in cooperation with state and rural society or solely by a state or by a community alone. It is the partnership and the conversation between these two administrative ladders that can negotiate this with the individual. Then, too, it is important to get the individual into activity, and it is just one of the basic tasks of the employment agency involved in working with them in cooperation with them. We know that it is a challenge for those who have not been at work for 900 days to get back on track. That's what we're trying to get around in action, i.e. to ensure both forward and action. [[The president calls.]] I can't wait to introduce such measures.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u10	Mr. President. I'm just going to keep talking about the problems of the Department of Health for the transfer of nursing homes from state to country, like the dog. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einar Einarsson came in earlier. At that time, the rural areas of Vestur Island, Horny, and Akureyri were mentioned. They have declared dissatisfaction with the government's contributions to the business, following the reports. It's interesting to consider the dealings of these rural communities with Iceland's Medical Insurance and I have here a letter from the Western Islandstown to Iceland's Medical Insurance. That's where even the two of them come from. ... tothecityimported a contract in June 2020 and were repeatedly attempted to contact the director of the Agency. Finally, over three months after the resignation, the Western Islands came to see representatives from health care. There was no comment on the meeting who would take over the operation. Seven months later, it is still unclear who is in charge. On February 17, a letter received from health insurance that no one declared any interest in receiving a nursing home in the Western Islands. In the Horn, the new operator is taking over at the end of the month, and there is no contract. In Akureyri a joint press report was issued that the National Institute for Health would take over the business, and it was backed up a few months later. It is quite clear, Mr. President, that this important class of paint is in complete uncertainty, and this is not least affected by the household in these nursing homes and their caregivers, and these people are simply treated with disrespect. We just have to admit that because this group is responsible for the State. Then it's all about the staff. They don't know their future. In the meantime, the job will be kept, pay cut, etc.? What about its general rights? The mayors of the Western island, Hornafjörður, and Akureyri found the matter with a welfare committee this morning, and they were very quiet. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if there are no procedures in the Ministry or health insurance on the transfer of nursing homes from a local community to the state. [[The president calls.]] It's a service that's responsible for the State.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u11	A respectable president. As it turned out in my exchange of words with another man. In the past during this period of inquiry, I have high hopes for the work that is now being carried out. I expect to be separated from the work force either later this week or next week, and I've been pretty long behind the leaving of this group, to be honest. Gylfi Magnússon will lead the group and they'll all be on the side. A senator named here, i.e. The Icelandic Community Union on the behalf of rural society, Iceland's Medical Insurance and Health Services Association and, of course, the Ministry of Health. This work is very important when it comes to mutual understanding, not just about the cost of service, but also about the separation between social services and health care. It is a number of simplicitys that have been present during the discussion to find out who has a responsibility to their oldest citizens in these matters, and it is disappointing when rural communities report to the object of service to the oldest citizens. How important it is, then, that we distinguish this from the kind of service that truly is social service and health care because it is the right thing to do. A member of a nursing home is not a medical facility in the usual sense of that word but a home for people. People are then registered as a legal home, but, of course, they have the same right as all other citizens of the community to enjoy health care regardless of their age. I am very aware of the issues. A senator mentioned, but I believe that governments and members who have come to the table have a common obligation to the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u12	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The minister's answer, and I hear that she is very, very sorry that this group has come to some conclusion. And there's more to wait, it's been months, just like I'm shaving. It is totally inappropriate to be advertised for new operators seven months after the surrender of a community. It is natural that something is wrong in the system at such a long time because it is important, as we mentioned, to the members of the household. Then I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to the legal standing of the staff in general when this uncertainty exists. They're going to do their job, they're going to get dumped, what the remuneration is, etc.? I'd especially like to ask you about the Western Islands case. No one has declared an interest in taking over that business. How is the Ministry going to solve that? Will the Ministry meet the budget needed to keep the local community running the nursing home in the Western Islands? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u13	A respectable president. Whatever it is. A senator last mentioned, whether the terms of the individual community will be met with increased financial contributions, assumes that the situation is in such a way that the local community wants to continue to care for the business. According to the information I have, these rural communities are not interested in it, and that is, of course, the target of the ministry, and we have to work out. But I'd like to mention it here, so it's perfectly clear that we need to be aware of it in our analysis work, when we're laying the groundwork of reevaluating the actual cost of these nursing homes, that there may be significant differences in small nursing homes that are being thrown out of the country and that are in some measure not as practical economics and much larger nursing homes, but in them other quality, i.e. To live near his own home and his people. It is also of great importance when it comes to identifying these costs and thus evaluating the cost of the State.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u14	President. Following the shooting of that last weekend, there have been discussions about causes and causes and the need for reform within the police. Of course, as a community, we want to prevent such events, and of course rulers need to assure citizens that everything is done to prevent similar events in the future. But we also need to ensure rights that all of us live in a democratic legal state. This was quoted by the State Marshal in an interview on February 17, U.S.A., by the permission of a president: We do not have enough strong sources in the criminal defense role of a police agent that is something we are discussing with the Ministry, and we also have very narrow limits on the delivery of data and how long we can keep people in large research. So I'd like to ask the highest. First of all, Minister of Justice whether the officers of the police asked for such permission, i.e. increased evidence to carry out their criminal role as well as whether they have asked for an dilation of existing sources. What's the Ministry's position and the highest. Minister of Justice to them, if they are present? It is also of interest that the police'case seems repeatedly that arms need more or more or expand its authority. I wondered what the reason is, and in the context of the Justice Department policy on law enforcement. How far will the Ministry of Justice go in extending the authority of the police, and in what ways is the current police authority not sufficient for them to take care of her criminal role? If the police investigation warrants are expanded or added, how will individual rights be guaranteed? Will citizens be able to rely on the presence of squares and be there to ensure individual privacy and rights?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u15	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. When we consider these matters, we find that such speculations are very important. As to whether this is the case, it's only recently taken up, the speculations cited by the U.S. Marshal on the crime scene, the expansion of certain sources due to custody, and so on. It has not been a priority to cope with recent circumstances. There are other factors that we have developed to cope with organized violations. These include: Legislative legislation on the activities of the financial treasure department that handles the issues as well as a special group that is working to help the police work better together in preventing organized violations. There have been priorities, as well as setting up funds for police equipment to improve her ability to cope with this operation. Of course, a key aspect of life needs to be considered. In terms of the changes in law and the ideas the police have put together, it's only at an early stage and it's at the Ministry for observation and need more discussion. They must always be confident that public citizens can be sure of their rights, know their rights, and that their rights are effective surveillance. I remind you of a bill that's being discussed at the moment. A top-of-the-art Board of Education on the increase in police surveillance, but also, of course, that privacy is respected. At the same time, we want to have powerful law enforcement officers who can handle a wide range of projects, such as complex organized crime, which can lead to various and varied fractures in which all the police must work together as a whole. But no change in weapons is expected. The prime sign of the Icelandic police is she doesn't have a weapon. [[The president calls.]] But we have a powerful task force and enough knowledge to deal with these issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u16	President. I appreciate those answers. I'd like to take this step further and ask for something else that has been mentioned in the discussion, which is a police call to have comparable sources and police sources in other parts of the North. I'd like to ask a minister what the Ministry of Justice's policy would be if a call for such sources were raised and encouraged more by the police. What is the Justice Department's policy on premeditated research warrants?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u17	A respectable president. Implementation of changes in pre-active research legislation or crime prevention legislation can be made from both factors at an early stage. The changes I brought on the police law bill at the council were my Ministry's policy of making the police law. It is best to expand the cooperation and consultation of the national police so that they are better equipped to do so even. to deal with organized crime, which does not have borders on other countries; to improve cooperation with other countries and international cooperation and to improve cooperation between offices here, so that the Agency is familiar with and aware of the fractions committed in different parts of the country. The police are also under closer supervision, making it more independent. I think all of these changes, whether there is increased consultation, legalization of the Council of Police, increased international cooperation with the police, or police surveillance, show very much of the policy being taken. The other discussion is early, if it is necessary, but let us see that the police have to be able to deal with the problems in the community. If it changes rapidly, we too need to act quickly.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u18	Mr. President. This weekend the National Hospital Medical Council saw compelled to call attention to the rise of a major accident. According to the Council's assessment of women's health, the arrangement to send a pair of cervical samples for analysis is an arrangement. During a discussion on this subject the preceding day said the highest. Healthcare Minister, with permission of the President: ▪ I have emphasized my professional assessment of security and information that will be safe between the laboratory and the women who go to screening. The director of the Center for Health of the capital area has described concern over late living with results from the Danish lab, which now performs analysis. Over 1,000 samples are undisclosed from January up to this month. Critics in this area are loud. Iceland's Medical Association has concluded that by transporting a research section of cervical cancer probes, important jobs are laid down and left the country. It's also the opinion of gynecologists and obstetrics. This is the opinion of the research team, the office of surgeons, and the opinion of a greater part of the advice on screening for cervical cancer. Gunnar Bjarni Ragnarsson, president of the Cancer Medical Association, has reported in the media that it does not matter who controls the service, but it does matter where they are, where they are stored, and where they are diagnosed, and how access is to the visions. These experts seem to have been unsurpassed. So I ask the minister: Who was behind it? Why this analysis? I believe that it has become a matter of personal interest to build confidence in this system in the light of how these changes have been under way. I ask the last third question: How is the highest? In view of this heavy criticism by health experts, a minister sees that trust in this system can be restored?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u19	A respectable president. The situation in cancer screening was not good. As a result, health authorities and, indeed, the cancer community were also concerned. As a result, cervical cancer was diagnosed at a more severe stage. I'd like to review it with some reason. A senator's response period at Iceland's Cancer Society was in the four - month period, which was discussed in the entire media here in November. In the fall of failure, over 5,000 samples had to be revised. It was reality. The situation on which we are based is that we have specific instructions from the screening council and the surgeon's office on how to demonstrate the procedure, i.e. Screening itself. The vision will be taken at clinics all over the country, so it has been since the end of the years, and from the living room doctors. So the bioavailability is better, the participation becomes larger, and it is less expensive. Now it's 500 bucks. which once cost almost 5,000 dollars. The samples will be, in accordance with the protocol and safety in the studies, examined by a qualified laboratory that is now reporting a Stockholm sample from Gautaborg as well as a Denmark sample. This ensures the right diagnosis, which is the most important interest of all of us. The answer comes according to a contract within three weeks. That's how it's gonna be. Hv. A senator asks how we will rebuild trust. We build it up with good service. Now the number of analyses for women in the capital area has increased by 19 years. There are 19 more places where women can be screened for cervical cancer, so I agree that the situation becomes less expensive, accessible, and safer service. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u20	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The health minister is very much concerned with the answers. She says the situation wasn't good. At least it seems to me that these changes are in the same place. It's not a good situation. The most loud criticism is heard from the health class itself and from women. Experts on the stage present doubts, criticism, and finally talk about catastrophe. The director of the cancer surgeon Association has said that the highest level of logic is in progress. A minister on transport to another country is rejected by everyone who knows best about the bioavailability and safety of the specimens. So I ask: What is the response of a minister to the criticism and warning of experts who say that the diagnostic capacity exists here, who refuse to be safer with these changes, who says that the vision will certainly not be more accessible and worry about the negative impact of transport on other aspects of the research and diagnostic work of a local country? I'm sorry, I'm feeling inadequate with the answers here today. I think the best thing to do is ask a minister's report on the basis and impact of this work, on these changes, with the guidance of achieving peace and restoration of trust and I will do so, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u21	A respectable president. I am confident that what is most important in this subject is that people are living up to the facts. I think it is a good and important means for all who are taking the lead in the community or in health care to base their discussion on facts. That is a big point when people use speech about security, and they are to be careful about it. I think it's very important. I feel that it is important not to see fear and insecurity in the community. I agree with it. One senator says, it is important that the discussion be open, it is on the table, and at the same time all reason is based and the basis for the decision. If it helps to report the matter, I'd be happy to say that my health care now has a very thorough presentation of the case that I think will be of great benefit to all of us. [[The president calls.]] I reiterate how important it is that we all participate in cervical cancer screening.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u22	Mr. President. We've set up an ambitious food policy in Iceland, and it's turning even. about so - called food security and food quality, but also about parishions in and out of the country. When we talk about parishion instruments, we have the traditional garden we call where, for example, we have the traditional garden we call. The rural communities come in very strong with their beauty around, and so on, but especially with the shelling itself. Of course, in these articles the value of education is clear and does not have to be spoken of as much. The arrangement for this education was that earlier this gardening school of the State, then he entered the National Farmer College of Iceland, and then now he has been guessing two years of inaccession and even lack of agreement between parties, so that the status of education and arrangements may be somehow limited. I agree with that conclusion of the highest order. Minister Alfreðsdóttir Alfreddótir, to separate between professional education and higher education, i.e. to focus on the fact that education in gardening and climatic education is in high school and then can be achieved by higher education at a university level. This is in harmony with the opinion of the majority of people in this article. In the meantime, the decision to study gardening and fencing will be saved under the University of South Africa: What steps must we take in order to make this happen? And, like, how do we have to build a LBHI gardening school to smoke for adequate housing and equipment, so that some study of gardening and climatic work can be done there?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u23	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A candidate for the inquiry and for raising the subject of this important subject, i.e. Gardens and food production in Iceland The future of Iceland's garden is bright in education, research and opportunities. First thing I want to do is talk about education. As it has become clear, we have decided that our training will be held at the South American High School, and we want to strengthen it. This is what we have done in cooperation with the University of Agriculture, Southland's Mountain School, and Smoke. It is very important to take this step, and the entire arrangement around the study is becoming clear, and in the South, it is very interested in taking this step. Next, I'd like to mention that we're going to set up a smoke future group, i.e. anything that has to do with it. We have been investing in housing and building up as much as possible. We do this because we believe that our opportunities in gardening are endless in Iceland. What I'd like to mention here, too, and I think is very important, is that we see increased innovation and one of the things we want to stress is that agriculture takes into account the use of vertical agriculture, that we're moving and investigating even more about it. As a result, if we want to contribute to Iceland's sustainable development, we need to be more concerned about the big steps in food production.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u24	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I just want to reiterate two things in this relationship. On one hand, the agreement that must exist between the professional, the article, the directors of the South Land Racial School, those conducting the University of Farming, must be in the way of learning to unite, there will be no hesitation. On the other hand, when it comes to the gardening school of smoking, there have been extreme problems and many problems there. It must ensure both money and continued agreements to ensure that this situation and possession of it, etc. there will be no serious interference with the study. I agree with the highest. Minister that in this, there are many opportunities for innovation, exports, etc., but there's really need to be a team.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u25	A respectable president. That's right, we've been getting together, and we've been working on this. Clearly, we want to increase our interest in education. We want to increase our interest in food production education, and we see many opportunities in it. This is where we work together, the Ministry of Education and Culture, the College of Agriculture, the Southland Multiway School and the Smoke Professionals. I'm convinced that all of this is going to work really well, and we want to make sure that there's a future for us and that the deal we're working to make a success and a good deal with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u26	Madam President. With President's permission: The house it leaks, there's always mold. That song sang to Ásgeir Trausti about a year called the New Rain. It's clear that many houses in Iceland are crying. Following his experience with the problem in his own home, there was trouble. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen the first executive for the proposal to negotiate the matter of Congress that we vote for today, a proposal for a hearing of action due to the barbarification of property. The Conspiracy proposal suggests the necessary steps and the changes to be made and the members of the social and child - care minister would be hidden. I especially want to thank you. the welfare committee of all who have shown understanding of the seriousness of the matter. It's particularly happy that almost all of the committees are on the committee opinion, people from all classes at the council, and I want to thank the members of the committee for their cooperation on this matter. It's a happy day that we're here to vote today.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u27	A respectable president. Here's a matter for my part of the program, and I'm both on the council resolution and on the committee's opinion. Fortunately, a very good case will come all the way, and it will probably be approved. In particular, this is a serious financial issue, but even more serious is the health problem resulting from moisture damage. We've identified him in schools, public institutions, hospitals, and other places. Fortunately, we are taking care of it by finishing it and taking it in.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u28	Mr. President. How happy we are to wake up! The welfare committee has convened on this matter. The case was probably the first to move in Assembly Halls. paritaprevir Ingadóttir at the time and later for more members of the council. Now it's the highest. The minister of housing has been assigned to cover this project and to address it with authority because it is the right thing to do in terms of health problems, and this is a huge financial matter for many families. How happy we are that we will work together to cope with the problem!
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u29	Mr. President. The union supports this and has much to do with it. Unfortunately, the mold has traveled with us Icelanders over the centuries. Of course, what was formerly called an internal disease or even a hysteria in novels and history was merely a result of bad and poor housing. It's been moving a little better, but it's still big. To cope with this, we need to focus primarily on increasing the quality of our buildings. Sadly, a high - stature and unstable crown has led householders to save to the wick. If we are going to handle this problem, let us live with householders in Iceland an environment that enables them to build good housing for affordable resources. That's what I think we'd do with a more stable and better currency.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u30	President. When I arrived at a vote, I was reimbursed that I would sound angry. I'd like to report that I'm not angry. I'm happy that it's so far. I'm happy that it's gone. I think it is safe to think that the candidate of the proposal will be eager to observe home, with a child in his arms, the success of his case here within the council, for the table is industrial green. The political arrangement that has been taken care of is in the opinion of the general body and I would say yes, of course.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u31	A respectable president. I recommend a bill on deck. 916, No. 549. It is a bill that deals with changing the various layers of fish farming, food, and agriculture that attract simple regulations. The bill is written at the Ministry of pro and innovation. Government contracts show that there will be effort in simple regulations for the sake of employment and the general public, focusing on efficient and just government. In accordance with this, at my Ministry, a three-year operation program has been developed which targets a simple rulework. The progress of the Action Programme is a top priority in the Ministry, and it has been given a great deal of effort during the past few years. The first stage turned toward changing the law on food, and its bill was submitted to the 150th legislation and adopted on December 17, 2019. The first step also included the delinquency of 1,242 regulations in the marine road and agricultural sector. In the second stage of the project, two prime bar was put forward in April 2020, the first of which a change in agricultural and food laws, and the change in various marine waters, fish farming, salmon and trout fishing practices. With these laws, 33 legal groups were removed, the committees were reduced, and the management was simplified. The recommended bill is a third stage of the above measures. The bill is the product of extensive consultation with the Office of the Ministry. Then the bill was also published in government consultations. The bill suggests changing the current food, farming, animal transport, marine soil, and fish farming laws, all aimed at simplifying regulations in the interests of employment and the public and increasing efficiency in Icelandic government. The impact of the bill is largely due to the fact that projects will be transferred either within the administrative capacity, simplified, or reduced. This will help to lighten the work environment by simplifying the work programme and by diluting the activities of the Marketing Authorisation in certain cases. The changes are linked to promoting simple regulations and administration. First of all, the bill suggests changes in the rules of fish farming in areas where less people are exposed to land farms. The primary objective of these changes is to reduce the cost of these bodies and contribute to simpler administrations, including it is suggested that a minister be authorized to state in a Regulation that a certain operation should be registered instead of being subject to authority. The requirement is that maximum agricultural life mass should be no more than 20 tons at any given time and that the function does not depend on environmental impact assessments based on environmental impact assessments. These are proposed to alter the feeding, application and ejaculation control laws and the import and protection laws of the animal and nature that are also involved in simplifying the course of license. Permissions provided by the Food Agency for feed companies using additives or premixs in feed products, producing medicated food, or operating extra animal food. The number of selected jobs is now about 100 and is now published for 12 years. This will contribute both to increased efficiency and to the advantage of reducing the costs to the Rapporteur. The bill also suggests changes in the animal import law and the laws on nature protection to the streamline and harmonisation of the animal import system. These changes take into account proposals from the Food Agency and the European Environment Agency and aim to integrate SMEs, increase efficiency and simplify processes by applying for a permit for the import of an animal in one institution instead of two. At the same time, it is suggested by the bill that the transfers of the Ministry will be performed in certain cases, but changes are made in order to make the administration more efficient. You can, for example, do so. It is suggested that arrangements be suspended, which requires that the Ministry and Minister confirm the release of a mountain and the agreement for livestock. These changes are designed to shorten a channel where the current intervention of the Ministry is thought to be a problem and a delay in administrative processes. Then it is suggested that horse - road letters be made out of the Farmers' groups so that other agencies can be delegated to them. A consulting committee on eviction of horses is also suggested to be laid down, since the committee has not been meeting for years and has not been active in its work. Finally, rather than verify the order of Matize's administration, five officials are proposed to be granted authority for special analysis of the market's pay markets and tenants. Other changes in the bill lead to increasing efficiency, simple processes, e.g. with the implementation of projects and increased cooperation within the administration. A respectable president. I've traced the bill's main subject, and I'd like to refer to the article that follows, which contains a detailed discussion on the subject of the bill. After a discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to a 2nd. ... andwhat. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u32	A respectable president. I recommend here for a Senate resolution on local payment on deposit in a pension fund. On this council decree, we are, all of us, all of the council members of Stockholm's people. The motion says so, with the permission of the president: The General concluded to hide the financial and economic secretary's law by presenting a bill for the end of 2021 that tax payment is done by deposit in a pension fund, not on the payment of pensions. The amount of money that the change will bring to the State funds will be assured to be spent in the interests of increased well - being. This matter was previously submitted to the 150th legislation Council, no. 25, but I didn't make it, even though I don't understand it, everyone must be surprised. The proposal is now reassigned. In recent years, the wealth of pensions has grown to some 5,200 billion dollars. At the end of 2019, based on information on Iceland's Web site. Insecures in your insurance fund, there are more than 200 billion dollars. every year. In the year 2000, Pensions of Pension Costs were mined about 80% of the gross domestic product, but in 2017 the ratio was 157% according to the economics of pensions displayed on the Lands Association of Pension, Pension. There is concern about how much of the pension is involved in a Icelandic business life. Their governments are representatives of unions and trades, which, in turn, appoint executives to represent the funds of corporate governments involved in the funds. Thus, the link between owners of funds, funds, and carers is little or no. The result is that a large proportion of Icelandic enterprises are owned by inactive persons who operate according to a legal requirement of fruitage rather than by their own funds. In recent years, pension funds have been criticized for investing in risky companies, paying superpaying executives, and supporting businesses that are literally drenched by funds. Paying taxes on payment in a pension fund can help to prevent the growth of pensions to an abnormally large extent in terms of the size of the economy. Money is lacking to address the necessary improvements to the Icelandic welfare system. The health system is on foot, the benefits of social security are inadequate, and the gap between the rich and the poor is growing each year. Therefore, it is necessary to increase the income and use it in behalf of the people. Residual taxation in a pension fund instead of payment is a painless way to make large profits in the state's funds, enabling it to strengthen the welfare system without compromising public resources. In accordance with local regulations, deposit in the Pension Fund and reimbursement of employers are not taxed. Instead, pension funds pay the tax paid to pensioners. When we're fresh and well off, we're taken from the legalized pension money and some put on special savings and so on, but no tax is paid. On the other hand, if we become so unfortunate at some point in our life that we end up suffering tragedy, accidents, and the need to take advantage of pension rights because of illness, now that we are older and we are going to take out this so - called pension money, he's taxed. It is taxable when we really needed it, either because of disability and disease, or because of aging, that we can get the complete payment from the pension fund without taxation. I'd like to take a little spin on our fine report on the deposit of the pension fund, taxation at the start of deposit, and talk about what the situation is in today's community. I don't know if the term Covid-19 has ever been mentioned here in this speaker's chair, so I'm a little dependent, because we've been subjected to this pandemic for a whole year, completely undergone. It is said that even after four years, the debt of state funds will be up to 2,000 billion dollars. Now we are, for example. collecting debt and other factors of less than 600 billion 2020 and 2021 when trying to cope with the financial breakdown that occurs in society. And now the raisin is at the end of the hot dog, a respectable president. We're about to sell a share at Iceland Bank, up to 35% of our property in Iceland Bank, a business that doesn't say and no evidence recommends selling. No reason. The evidence presented, and to support them, is the best thing for us to sell the bank, is just completely set up on the feet of bread. There is no danger now that we will continue to take advantage of our common banks, not of any kind. There's nothing to say that there's some market compression and we'd get more freedom on the market if we sold our share in the Bank of Iceland, because the nation's spoken, and the majority of the nation's against selling the bank. One of the main reasons is that we lack funds, and it is estimated that we could get up to 35 billion dollars. for selling this property of ours in Iceland and the 35 billion are extremely important to the economy, into the state fund of aquifer now as we are fighting in the banks because of the collapse we have had to face because of the Covid pandemic, a pandemic -- notice; a pandemic. By taxing the pension fund now we're paying down to 80 billion dollars. every year. A respectable president. Do we realize what the amount of money is in every month that our pensions need to invest? Less than 18 billion bucks. They have to invest for less than 18 billion bucks. Our pension funds have become more than 40% of all registered partners, 40% of the holdings at the Stock Palace, no less. And when dealing with sales in Iceland banks, it is also said that most people probably now cannot afford to buy this money to buy our bank property unless they're in the interest of the pension fund. Once again, the treasure of pensions, which have a great share in Arion's bank; the pensions, which were around the table. They're also doing credit deals from their funds to their owners, credit partners, and in this case they're the ones who can possibly invest in our property in Iceland banking. Let us not forget that there has been no time to market these sales abroad to see if we could get any foreign person to do our business, for the hurry to sell our property in the bank. A respectable president. Now that I'm losing my mind in the bank business, it doesn't seem to matter who owns this bank. They are always willing to top the profits and yokes of customers. It's as simple as that. It doesn't matter what's left of the Navy bank's direct growth is 0.75%. It doesn't matter, e.g. you are convinced that interest rates from the pension fund are 4.5%. And let us not forget that the supply of fruits is 3.5%, no less. But I'm going to go back to the report, which I may not have to refer so much more to, for it speaks for itself. We're talking about the fruit of the pension fund not being safe, as we know, especially when they are living with the demands they have. It's been said that pension funds have turned in losses and that they get natural plaques like most people, like when we went through the 2008 financial collapse. Then they probably lost over 600 billion dollars. in various unwise investments. This body of Congress is suggested that the state's funds begin to collect the taxes and can therefore take care of them on their own terms instead of trusting the pensions to raise all this money. This does not mean in any way, as opposers of this synonym have said, that cutting out the rights of the pensioners and ending it would mean that if the standard payment was taken at the outset, the funds would just be emptied and nothing would be left. This would only cause an empty problem when the time came when the owner would have to pay off his pension. It's kind of the biggest bullshit I've ever heard because it's going to continue streaming into the fund at a hundred billion dollars. every year, and we're just talking about how we're gonna use it and not do it anymore, which is the general principle that we have a local tax payment right now, based on payment immediately paid. The same would be true when the pensions received money from their owners, then they would be settled in admissions. In fact, there is a reason, and it is very interesting to consider whether to make a powerful survey of the financial institutions themselves in order to obtain a direct democracy among them how they themselves feel about taking a standard payment immediately during payment instead of paying taxes on payment. That would be of great interest, because with those 70-580 billion bucks, we would be getting into a state fund every year to take this cash payment into the fund right away from the start, you can imagine what you could do about the minimum tax pay and the inadequacy to, for example, the minimum tax pay. $350,000. We could give them tens of thousands of Icelanders who are waiting here, even if only for safety of food, clothing, and shelter. There is always talk about setting priorities. We have certainly seen that in this ideal period of time, the priorities for money have been realized. But there's also a lot of appeal for the government funds. We've been made up of huge revenues because of a growing economic breakdown, in the community, because of unemployment, our businesses, and we know that our economic system is barely going at the speed of the snail, it's running really slow, but, fortunately, it's not quite stopping. We're gonna need money for the government's money. This is one way. I'm also going to point it out, this way to make sure that when this system was established around 1969, there was never a time when those who paid their taxes and had already paid their taxes would be paid double taxes. It's never gonna happen. These laws must go into effect from the day they are given. Like any other law code, they do not work burdensomely again, for it is clean and clean, as is true of the case that the people's party worked on the behalf of older citizens when we reached out for them at the hands of less than 7 billion dollars. with interest when the law had been broken.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u33	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's talk and that council proposal, which I believe was made before, and that I may also have participated in a discussion about it before. A senator. It's so nice to have a conversation with you. A senator. I want to share my anxieties for the future with you. A senator, i.e. The concern that the nation is growing older, and as a result, what has been called a rising ratio of forwards, i.e. that more and more people will become older citizens, as we have defined it, out of a labour market, while fewer people are in the labour market to live under the welfare system. Thus, every 67 years of age and older, there were 5.6 workers in 2012, but in 2061 it is predicted to be at 2.4 workers. Then I pondered the question, in line with the synonym that is here for changing this so that the tax of the deposit will be taken instead of the payment of a pension fund, whichever. A senator is not afraid of how to live up to the welfare society that I think will cause him to react. A senator will agree, for a long time, if he handles income from his deposit and spends in such a way as to pay. A senator came in. How will we be able to live up to the well - being society we want to see? A senator, when we see fewer and fewer working hands on each pensioner?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u34	A respectable president. Thank you. Haraldsdóttir That's Bryndís, isn't it? That's how nice it is to have a word with her, and we're just becoming like Siamese twins. She's the one who shows me the greatest interest when I'm doing my business, and that's a real pleasure. Yes, I share that concern to a degree. I share their concerns if the number of working hands dwindling, as predicted by models, and the fact is that our nation lives longer and grows old like most other prosperous nations. I'm not worried, however, about the money we'd get from the deposit, which was probably about 75 billion bucks, while the pension funds get to stay behind maybe 130 billion to keep investing, let alone if they do it well and hopefully not lose too much of it, I'm not worried that this system really doesn't continue to roll as it has done to this point. However, in many other ways, I am not satisfied with this system. I don't think that's fair - even if it's not exactly what it is. A senator asked me about - and I can at least say that I'm worried that we may suddenly stand by that our welfare system does not depend on the expectations and goals it is intended to achieve. But I don't think it's the pension fund that's gonna save it, just not at all. And I don't worry about it, and I think this money would be so well spent on it, for example. to cut more cuts, to meet people more in an effort to help them save themselves, and that the older cities, as well as the older ones, are affected. A senator may be allowed to work, for example. without impairment, because there are not so many years that these older citizens have health to continue to survive. As it is now, I am more concerned that governments should not give those who want to win the opportunity to save themselves with all kinds of impairments and all sorts of burdensome measures that we can get rid of if we reimburse in the pension fund and use this money, e.g. into it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u35	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer, but I have to say I disagree. I fear that the action here is being made to request and that the secretary of finance bring a bill for the price of weakening our pension system when we need to strengthen it, in view of the fact that the nation is growing older, and we have fewer and fewer working hands on each older citizen. To say that, I can heartily agree. A senator on the importance of allowing people to continue working when they have power, abilities, and will. I think one of the things we here in this room needs to start discussing seriously is exactly what age is right to start a pension. Happily, too, we are seeing that human health is more important and that workers last longer. Maybe I'd like to ask you what. A senator about one thing that I know has been a huge subject of interest to the people of Flock. A senator, but that's the impairment. Now I realize that, and I think that the members of Flock's members have been very busy pointing out something unfair that may be due to impairment, but at the same time, I feel that at times the discussions can be quite simple when these factors are discussed. Then I'd like to ask. A member of Congress: Does a group of people believe that paying off from our social security system is in no way impaired when people can earn their money? Then I wonder: " Is it reasonable that a fully paid senator can also accept payment from our social security system? Is it true that people who can work and make a living get well paid to sit in corporate governments or to run their own companies will continue to get full pay from the social security system at the same time as people who really cannot earn that kind of money? The question, then, is, Where do these boundaries lie, and what do we find reasonable in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u36	A respectable president. I thank you again. A senator for the counter-sponsored. That was a great answer, I have to say, because it just gives me a lot of cards. Right away. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir says that we're not interested -- and thank you for giving us such a beautiful both of us, to have noticed what we've fought -- I have to say I'm a little sad at the moment. A senator has not noticed that we have a legislature after a legislature recommendation for a bill that is simply designed to stop cutting jobs. That bill certainly makes it clear that there are certain amounts to which we need to consider. It will never be at any point that a group of people standing here will try to protect those who have enough money and who have a pocket full of money. It's never. An independent party. A senator completely cares for that group of people. We, however, are fighting for the society group that is painfully tied up and standing here in a palace, and we are trying to fight all fronts trying to figure out how to raise the minimum wage of these individuals so that they have a chance to earn a reasonable amount of money. For example, when it comes to eliminating the total loss of income and allowing people to survive, this bill aims solely to people who are below not just poverty limits but to be in desperate poverty. I got it. I got it. A senator to read again the bill that has been shown here to eliminate the decrease in income from the elderly. There, too, we have a bill about removing disability. I don't expect many of them to be millionaires or to sit in some government and cut fire at their own cake. I'm sorry, but there's just practically no one in that situation. [[The president calls.]] To be honest, I think it's perfectly clear. No, we are not, so we don't want to damage, and above all, be helping someone who's a billionaire here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u37	A respectable president. We're discussing the Congress hearing for a local payment in a pension fund. I've got a lot of stuff to say about this case, but I think I'm gonna pick up the ball where he was last in this discussion and take in the debate on the declines, if we can accept that the highest-priority rates are being paid by the state. The situation today is that it is a large group of people who maintain their pensions. A large group may be too much said, but it is still a group of people who maintain full pensions after going to pension. This group has the highest salary that they have nothing to receive from the State. We know that the system will be reset right by 600,000, 670,000 bucks, I think it's today, or if it's 680,000 bucks. It sets the system to zero. But what happened on this 0-timer? Yes, those who get over there don't go in to the State Insurance Agency. They do not have to let the government's insurance organization have its eyes of research in all their financial affairs. They can also do other things, go to the job market, and work. They can work as they wish without impairment. At the same time, however, a worker or a working worker is entering a pension that has been at the minimum rate of 350,000, perhaps 400,000. month's pay. These individuals go to the workforce and may obtain $150,000,200,000. In a pension fund. How on earth are they to live by it when dealing with taxes and impairment? That's why we're talking about paying taxes on a pension fund. Then, too, we have asked: What should we do in the future? We will lose this income in the future. What did we do in the crash? What happened in the collapse of the pension fund? How much money was lost by the government's taxes in the crash? How is it today? It's probably 400,5,500 billion. Is it in any way normal to allow a pension fund to run around with 6,000 billion on the market, of which, on a third thousand billion tax dollars, glammbal with it on the market as it is, on hand, in a casino? Risk investments, money's way too much... [[Up front.]] Yes, buy a bank, or just take a currency from the country. They have invested in themselves systematically within the country, becoming almost every company that moves on the market. We worry and say, "Wait, there will be no money in the future. ' Have we heard this before? The industrial revolution? Yes, everything was meant to be black in the future. Computers came. We can just say goodbye to everyone. Everything will be sold and no job. But the future is not an excuse for beating people and letting them live, not in poverty, but in poverty, but in present, just because we can do so, because we have decided to allow certain parties to run around with the government's taxes on the market. Then it's just fine and you can say there's no money for people who live at 220,000 bucks. No, it doesn't live on just 220,000 bucks, that's under 200,000 bucks. if there are reduced habitats and even lower if there is to be social improvements in rural areas. Could some senator in this hall imagine trying to live at 150,000 bucks.? There's not even a way to live on it, there's no way to figure it out. It is crazy in itself that taxes do not subsidize the pension fund and also the special savings. This would surely include 100 billion. We'll probably reach 80 billion by taxing deposit into a pension fund right now and then by adding to our special savings. What can we do with this? How can we use this money? We need, for example. ... takingout these taxes and a little bit of impairment. We could count the tax and impaired pensions to $350,000. Maybe right away, to start with. How much would that cost? Maybe 50 billion, half the amount mentioned above. But what are the benefits? If we could do this in 1988 at the start of local pay--the pay of pay was no tax and impairment, and the people even had to pay the pension money--then we can do it now. But since then, the four groups have taken over here to make up all sorts of traps: special compensations, mortgages, special mortgages, wedding tax, which was one of the richest, couple tax, where a husband and wife were taxed so that one member was to care for the other. Do we remember that? Happily, it is, but we still have it for both older and micropier citizens. That's about 120,000,200,000.130,000 k. who go to wedding taxes if people want to live together. Could we apply this to ourselves here at the council? Would anyone here agree to pay a couple's taxes, that this would be a result of a mate's having a job? No one can think of that. What we are to ask ourselves is, What does a person need in order to survive? Why is that not to be asked? Why is that not calculated? Yes, that's calculated but with all kinds of tricks like that. not to be taken into your home. They avoid it, like a hot fire. Government by government calculates a real development, what it takes to live in Iceland. I can tell you right away that it won't do 220,000 bucks. or less. We're clear, and we know it. That is why we are offering this suggestion, just to address the problem. At the same time, we're in the middle of Covid, and we're up to a large debt of the state funds of about 600 to700 billion, just for the sake of Covid. The entire debt, as shown here, is 2,000 billion. But we have our income in front of us. We have them right in front of our nose. No, rather, let us blacken out the health system, so let us black out to micromaths, older citizens, even letting the health system serve a large part of the table. Let's find these wide sheets, let them pay. I have to say just as it is that it's crazy that we should be this far, in 2021, and not be wiser or more developed than having a system, as I've always said and will always say, because we put sick people waiting to get some food. How on earth can we allow ourselves to do so? And I ask, "Why on earth are they classified as the ones who've kept this up forever in the decades? " They promise before the election they intend to change this. A respectable president. I see that my time is over, so I'm going to ask to be put back on the rosary because I haven't finished my case yet.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u38	Mr. President. I'm just gonna get involved. I must give a warning about the procedure presented here. There's a lot to say about it, that there's more money in the welfare system, but I don't think this is the way to do it. The system we're building on today is actually an agreement between the government and the 1970 labour market parties, if I remember correctly, and I don't think it would be advisable if the government would one day decide to change it. The concentrations of the funds for investment would be reduced, thereby reducing their ability to earn money in order to increase pension money to those who need them when they go to pension age. This is actually taking a loan from the future taxpayers, as if I am, and we all know that the income that the government fund has at any given time, or the rurals, because it is expected that a part of that would flow to them, will not be used twice. You see, the Icelandic pension system is something special in many ways. There is not a flow system, which is very important and is on the way to becoming self-sustained. During the next 10 to 1515 years, our pension system is becoming very sustainable and that is of great importance, especially when you see the demographic changes that are taking place in society. We will not, to the extent that other nations are faced with the problem when people go into pensions to have to pay taxes, as some communities have seen, two workers to cover each individual's pensions. We will actually stand on our own foundation and on the basis that the labour market parties have agreed on this system. But there is another important factor to consider, that by the means of the process that is being referred to, in many cases paying taxes for pensions, there will be an increase if there is something, because in many cases, paying taxes would be taxed at the upper levels of the tax system, but the odds, especially for the lowest ones, are much more likely to land in the lower stages if they are not paid out earlier than after, i.e. if the tax is not paid for until after a year. With the arrangement that we now have, countries and rural communities are actually sharing in the growth that becomes of the funds that comes out but would probably not do so on the same scale, or would not do so, if this arrangement was taken up. With the system as we now have it, countries and communities get tax pay from these payments when those who need the service pay taxes on their pension money. In many ways, I think, to the future, a much normal arrangement. But I'm gonna pray. Senators, not only do I pay attention to what I say but I intend, with permission of the Supreme Court. The president, to read from a review received because of this case when it was submitted last. [[Up front.]] The National Association of Iceland, first of all, describes last year's review that it is totally contrary to the idea of going this way, and then it says: With taxation for deposit in pension money, tax burden is transferred from generation to generation to the basic idea of the pension system that each generation represents its own pension and part of its service. Thus, the change would mean that, in effect, the section of the pension savings of taxes was converted from a collection into a flow system. With a rapid change in national dating, the power of the Icelandic pension system compares with that of other nations, especially in how much of the pension system is financed in collection funds. Thus, a change in the direction of increased air flows would be a significant setback. Go on, tell the People: If deposit in pension is taxed today, future pensioners will still not return taxes to government funds. This means that those who become at work at 20 to 1940 years will have to pay the cost of serving the growing number of pensioners with a higher tax burden on the tax pay that will be taken out today. The taxation of deposit in a pension fund will severely impair the pension rights of the pension fund, with a lower share of the payments at the pension fund. It will again lead to increased future spendings in the social security system, where the pension system is based on the interaction of these systems. The global insurance system differs from the fund collection system, a system funded by taxes at any given time. Increased future expenses in the social security system will therefore also weigh the tax burden of future generations. And it goes on to say to the People: The number of working - agers per pensioner is rising rapidly. Today there are about six workers per pensioner, but after 25 years it can be estimated to be one in three. The current arrangement ensures that pension workers will pay taxes on their pensions and thus contribute to the financial support of the health and welfare system. On the other hand, if this tax is taken in deposit, working people in the future will have to carry a much heavier tax burden to support the government budget or severely cut service. Based on the definition of the proposal's report, it may be suggested that the tax of industry be paid outside a person's discount. This is likely to mean that the tax rate of lower pensions/payers increases more than the rate of taxation in those with high pensions declines from the current level. Such practices are totally against ideas on the role of the tax system. Mr. President. In fact, there is no need for such words. I think this statement from the Federal Republic of America says quite a lot about what the method suggested in this proposal is actually wrong, considering the arrangement we have here. I think there will be a lot more discussion and much more conversation with those people who have so far agreed on how to finance the Icelandic pension system before such proposals as this will be realized.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u39	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For the talk and for his input, Þór Gunnarsson's Ólafur and to participate in this with us here. He read from the review of the Allied Union, and I'd like to ask him why. First of all: Is there any reference to how many people are dead before the time comes for them to take a dollar of what they have been forced to pay in a pension fund? I know a lot of people who've jumped off at the best of their age and paid off a fortune where they just blend in. It's number one. Number two: It seems as if this review shows that we just keep on growing because of aging. We get older and older, but in reality, there will be no renewal in the community faque, it will always cause us to lose working hands. I don't know any better than a council group. A senator and even more people here just want to move people into the country, and I hope they're not just for reformation. I'm going to hope that they want to move in with people to join the community and continue to build them up with us and work and be working hands. I'm asking why. That's also true of a senator. Then he says the taxes would increase, and we're moving this over to the next generation. That's what I'm talking about. A senator saying that we who now pay local payment are moving it over to the next generation? By paying local wages now, are we moving it over to the next generation? This expression is totally above my limit of reason. And that state and rural society enjoy - if government and rural society ever need to get more money into their business, with all due respect, sh. Senator, I think it's right now that we're in a bloody fight in the financial breakdown we're dealing with these days. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u40	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Inga Sæland Land for the counter-sponsored. The Senator is naturally, like me, aware that part of our pension system is a so-called cosponsion system, and that's the nature of social security systems, just like when you buy and pay insurance, that it's not always what men get paid out of that insurance. The same is true of the social security system. This ensures that the systems can form related objects such as disability, which will occur in funds, which will begin to remove from the system sooner or later, etc. However, the other part of the system, as the senator knows, is the unique part of the system. This may be about the section the senator was wondering about. Then there is the demographic that confronts us. We face the fact that the nation is getting older, and all demographic predictions are expected to do so. I agree with the senator that, of course, it really matters to us as a community to get people from abroad to do some of the work we just don't have the human race to do here. Of course, people pay taxes and obligations to society, but this does not change that even by that change, demography will gradually show us in Iceland, after 25, 30 years, that we have six working hands to live under the welfare system for each one of the elderly. Today we have 12, if we expect everyone to have two or most hands. We're going to have to deal with this, and this suggestion goes to my other senses in the wrong direction of that reaction.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u41	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. We're right here, totally heading for thread bones and the right direction. There's no doubt about it on this side, no doubt about it. I can make you happy. A member of the council because we are simply performing some further changes in the system. We have already measured a bill, which did not receive much attention, which is an enormous interest and justice issue for those who are legally forced to give 15.5% of their wages into this pension fund and so have the feeling when it comes to getting out of the fund that there's no money and nothing they're really saving up to the upper years except a section of individuals. That is why the so - called gray army, known all, has sullied the state to test whether it's legal to interfere with money in a pension fund. We at The Gang of the People have put in a great bill. A senator can welcome. It's giving you a conditional possession rights to what you've taken from your salary and put in this fund. It's not just some social insurance fund, it's yours, it's yours, it's yours and it's living. It is a 1969 system, and it has been changed no less than 200 times since the collapse, no less or less. It's the most important thing to change it, outside the natural way, what we do with our money. It's more than 20 billion used in overwork, 20 billion a year to pay for those who run this system for us, who have sucked into the teat of the system so hard that we can't get them off their teats unless we rip them out of both their palates. It's just a bit of a thing, it's just a bridge. It's a mix-up with our money. We believe that this budget will be better spent by local payment so that we can use it in our common funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u42	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator again before the counter-sponsored. I had not realized that this bill had come out, a fellow gang member. A senator would correct me if I hadn't, but at least I hadn't noticed. [[Up front.]] But I'll study it. If I understood why. The senator was right about the fact that every individual's pension pay would be earmarked to the individual in his pension fund... [[Up front.]] Yes, as the senator expressed it, it would be the right of everything the person would have paid for a pension fund. In many ways, it's a little different from what we've had here in Iceland. Interestingly, such systems are similar to systems, such as. In most places in the United States, i.e. that people just pay themselves in their own pension fund and that it has nothing to do with the official. It is the characteristic of a pension system where social security or welfare systems are generally weak. But I don't think that the Icelandic pension system or community cohesion, and society usually put us in a place where we honestly believe that we are to compare ourselves with communities where the welfare system is, in fact, much weaker than we would ever accept in Iceland. [[Up front.]] I don't think this approach would be much better than that. A senator is suggesting in this suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u43	A respectable president. The race is crazy. But I appreciate it. paritaprevir For his speech, Þór Gunnarsson's Ólafur! Now he is a doctor, and he has become a huge change in Icelandic society, a more rapid change in life, and one of these is increasing life spans, so it sounds like he believes that in the future, when there are so much concern that taxes are not working - it is very likely that his pension will be 100 years? Of course, we don't know anything. But it is always this panic propaganda that we also used in our industrial revolution and with our computers and everything. It is always believed that something in the future is frightening. But the situation today is that we know that we have money in our hands. We have cash in our hand today, which is in pension funds, but we don't know if there's gonna be any money in the hands of a hundred and twenty years. We're here to learn from the collapse of the bank. It's an unwritten paper. Got it. A senator's system, as it is naturally built today, is that those who are pre-rich and are on the financial markets and elsewhere pay 22% capital taxes, but at the same time people who are trying to collect money full tax but not capital pay? The pension fund is largely a capital prize, and similar rules for the pension fund should be essentially valid. He may think it normal that a worker who is expected to get 56% to 70% of his salary to live when he retires - how on earth does he realize that the man in a tenet should be able to survive the inequities he receives?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u44	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson for his counter-sponsored response. The Senator first discussed only changes in society and rising age and that we were, in effect, gradually getting up a generation of healthy older citizens with considerable ability to work. Happily, the senator is right. It is gradually happening, and it will affect how we will look at the pension systems in our country for the future. But the way to solve it is that I don't know at all about starting now to tax my deposit. In that case, it is much more important to hold hands with regard to the money and accept the payment when people are in pension and need the ministry. I think the senator's question - and now I'm going to put a word in the senator's mouth, Mr. President - should it be rather this: Is it necessary to increase the pension age because of this? That may not be an unusual question. The Senator knows as much as I do that such discussions have been going on in the community and good if we are upset. At some point, a senator was not on a committee that discussed this. It was in some other life both of us. But anyway, that may be part of the answer. Then, about what the senator asked about, whether the pension paid to those who had been remembered wasn't too low, it is, of course, exactly the senator's. We have been taking steps in this ideal period to meet that challenge, of course not enough, in the opinion of the senator, but the steps have been taken, and we need to continue on that course. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u45	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I just want to catch the ball up there. We were talking about how we have society today, and we see that we are making some amazing rules. We say to the invalid: You can't work, and if you're going to win, we'll punish you, unless you can work for 109,000. If you make any progress, we're going to punish you. And we say to seniors, "Yes, you can work for the 100,000. If you go any further, we'll only take 45% of it, first taxes and then 45%, 80% impairment. Yet, we are now talking about some fear in the future. I say for my part, let's not do this anymore. So let's make it clear that we don't weigh or impair the average wage of those with minimum wage, the minimum salary in the labour market, the minimum wage at the time of retirement. Would that be unfair? I don't think so. We could do this with taxation, just like we're talking about. Then, too, what I have also wondered: What is the result of society if we take this group and make it possible for it to choose a healthy diet, a healthy lifestyle, to starve, or to eat food that is unsolved because of its inexpensiveness? And how does this affect the health and the whole community? We are dealing with a large proportion of people by following a diet, a poor diet, and not eating enough vitamins. And besides, it doesn't have the chance to save itself and have a normal life as all of us want and have the right to have.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u46	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. The senator mentioned this as he and I and probably a lot more members of the council have discussed here at the council, that the emphasis on tax reform should be to reduce the tax burden of those with the lowest salary. And that's what's been done during this terms, i.e. By creating the third step, the taxes on the lowest wage rate decreased. I completely agree with the senator that it was important. The senator may well point out that we should continue in the same course. I think when we have the opportunity and we have the chance, we should. You may not be able to do everything at once, but there is a perfectly reasonable policy, as the government I currently support for that course. So that's fine. However, regarding what the senator called disease abuse - I do not agree fully with the use of that term, but it is a different term - during the season, the steps have been taken to make people in the lowest level of income, elderly, microgamy, and others, able to take advantage of the medical and medical services offered by reducing the requirements for these groups when they use this service. I think that was important. However, this is the nature of the situation, so strengthening and improving the welfare system is sure to be a lasting project. We will need to continue our course, and it is a joy to see that these points are brought to the attention of members of Stockholm's council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] All of us need to be alert in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u47	A respectable president. It's been a lively discussion and a great deal on the people's council resolutions for a local payment on a pension fund. We're in a bit of a weird situation, for example. with the tax reductions of this government or what to say, tax reductions and tax increases, such as the reduction of the rate from the 37 points to 35% but at the same time, the discount was also reduced. It is taken with your left hand, and it is sort of with your right and then added somewhere in between. I find that very strange. I have to say exactly what it is to try to count it as a good thing to be in one of these tricks with a percentage and a personal discount is just sad. A person's discount should not be for those on a good salary. In effect, personality discounts are to disappear with increasing pay. I've been talking about something like that. We could be totally without personal discounts. On the other hand, I would say that their lowest remuneration should be increased, so they don't have to pay taxes and much less use impairments. It is fundamental to make sure that money is made so that no one has to starve, and we can do so by taxing money from a pension fund. It sucks to know that you've been here for the fourth year of this council and you've always been working on it, but it's not too much. That we should be, as I said before, in a society where we're making people wait in line for food and that we should be in a society where we have a group of people who can't save themselves and who have lost everything because of unemployment or because they're sick or only because they're getting older and getting retired. It sucks that we are in this position because we can do so much better. We can do that with the tax money we've taken from the pension fund because it's sure to come to good people now and help people now. We don't know what will happen in the future. We know what happened to Sóvá's kit, he disappeared. He landed in the Cayman Islands or Tortola, ended up as a luxury apartment in China, and then he came back and ended up at the bottom of the pool on Elfune as a pledge. He disappeared. Not only did it disappear but it also turned back the benefits of those who had suffered losses. So we know we should be careful about this, and that's why we should make sure that we reduce this budget because it's not normal how much it has become. It's way too much for a small economy, what the pension funds are. I have no faith in anything else - maybe it's just because of its interest in the pensions that ASI is against -- but I think that if the unions really studied things and saw what to use the money, they wouldn't be against it. Is the labor movement not ready to give people $350,000? What's the minimum wage in this country? Does she agree that they should be paid? Does she agree that if people retire, they should live in poverty, misery, and suffering, a certain group, while others should have the greatest good? I don't believe in it. Is it a normal community in which we have a health system where children need to go on a waiting list to get on a waiting list? Is it reasonable that we have a health system where older citizens who need to go to a nursing home need to go to a waiting list? What kind of system is this that we're fighting? We have a lot of money out there that the state has as taxpaying, more than 2,000 billion already in the pension system, and 80 or even 100 billion that we could get out if we tax down payment. This is what we're supposed to do. We're supposed to fix things up today. There is no point in causing people to be killed today that we could do something about that money in the future that we have no idea of ever being. That's why I'm just saying, this council-sounding proposal is great, and it doesn't deserve that there's any more in this room to join us. Also, in view of the fact that now Covid is adding the tax burden of the state to 600, 700, 800 billion, we do not know how many billion it will be, and we could easily get things right with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u48	A respectable president. I just wanted to come up here to point out the fact that, despite the fact that this government is exorbitant because of having dropped taxes, I think it was about 21 billion dollars. Which, in turn, passed through the entire line, we'll figure that it went through the entire line. My low tax rate also fell, and I'm not an hour, on my salary, taking the money they paid for the most advanced of months because of that tax reduction, in a whole month. I would've liked to. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson would have stayed with us because I was going to show him that there is also a bill, and the party of the people are well informed that, in reality, the paying of taxes and the failing of poor and very poor. We've already measured a bill that pays for lack of taxes and lack of income and money at $350,000. per month. That's a serious operation. It shows will, but it also shows the will of the government. It shows the will of the government, which says that making poor people wait for righteousness is, in effect, denying it for righteousness. But at the same time, these poor people are waiting. We have a very easy way. By taxing money into the state funds, we are taking into the state's budget up to 80 billion dollars. We would not have to justify sales in Iceland, which has given us billions of dollars to pay for money. In fact, it shows itself, even though it is trying to justify it, saying: "We can pay back interest. We're not paying any interest. Verteprosentan, the state fund now, is completely in historically low and very favourable. It is, in fact, far more favorable than ever, to justify selling the profit we have been through having our bank so far. There's nothing to say that the state shouldn't run a bank, nothing. The only times everything went wrong in the banking system was when they were private. I know there's no one out in the community that ever gets in doubt about it, because that's a fact. But I did not intend to give another talk much longer. I just wanted to point out that we have an opportunity here. Now it's a good time to pick up the money. In my transportation address, I said that it might be worth the attention to get the pensioners themselves, those who own the pension money, to respond to a poll of how they like to take the case there that we'd be willing to pay the deposit in the fund and use these dozens of billions of dollars in our own interest, in the interest of those who have the funds, in the form of removing the impairment, giving people the freedom to save themselves, helping them to work if possible, not to force it when it's their age, despite wanting to work, because 80 percent of them are picked up at the time. It is quite clear how these systems are being oppressed by tens of thousands of Icelanders, these systems that are highly designed here, this poverty trap so strongly built around tens of thousands of Icelanders that they do not even have the opportunity to save themselves from it because the government does not allow it. It's amazing. But here we are pointing to the amount of money that can be collected from a huge fund that is high at 6,000 billion dollars a year, a fund that takes over 200 billion a year, a pension fund that has to be invested for more than 17 billion a month. Why in the world is it so unnatural for us, who have the fund and the nation, to take advantage of the fruits that could possibly make the difference completely? Nothing possible, it would make the difference for much of the nation. All these people are about to grow old and how long we are living, it seems like we're just scared and panic that we're not going to drop until, and I don't know what and what - but let's also figure out that by stopping taxing poverty and allowing people to have a few crowns between their hands, they're getting back into society. It's just coming, it's getting the right way. We will all stand up as conquerors, and the high Council will gain greater trust in the public as well. We will also show what we are made of. We will show that we are here to work for the people of the country. We'll show that we're not interested, that we're not just up to some particular stakeholder we're elected into here to care for. We'll show that we're here to work for everyone. That's what the people's party does. We're here to work for everyone. We're not working for interests. We're not working for some people. First and last, we represent those who are in this society and horsing here in the sweat of their face at the command of this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u49	A respectable president. It's so exciting to be spending so much time with you. Here I recommend a bill to correct the changing of various laws because of a yoke in a crisis situation. It's not totally out of thin air, it's about to go directly, because we're actually going through a terrible pandemic. In 1st. Chapter I, change of the P.R. law, says so, by permission of the President: ...after the 27th C.E. The law's coming up with a new article, 27. a, as well as a heading, as follows: It's not a yoke when it's in danger. When demand for a particular product increases significantly due to a crisis or significant decrease in the availability of certain products due to a crisis situation, the U.S. Marshal may require maximum prices or maximum prices for certain products or products. When it comes to maximum prices or maximum shopping burden, a salesman is obliged to provide information to the state police officer, if required. We are saying, not that we want free markets and free pressures, but that, in this case, loyal supervision is needed. That's pretty clear. It is quite disturbing that people cannot afford to wear masks in this case, disposable gloves, alcohol, and hand soap. There are people who cannot afford to eat, and they do not eat the masks and gloves and explode. But it has a preventative device. It's just a terrible thing to know that we've seen it here, especially as last summer, to be on it just up and up. It just jumped up, and the price of the alcohol cans multiplied. But I'm going to continue to refer to the bill, and that's 2. g. The bill, by permission of the President: ...after 33 C.E. The law's coming up with a new article, 33. a, as follows: An individual or an attorney who violates the commands of the competent authority Twenty-seven. a Use up to 10 million fines. K. but a minimum of 100,000. The extent and severity of the offense should be taken into account. It should be out of question that when we accept certain commands to protect ourselves, our public interest is in being able to follow the prevention recommendations that we are advised to follow, which we have done a tremendously well to carry out here within the country ourselves. We've stuck together ourselves. It was certainly not because national boundaries were protected at the beginning of the epidemic. It was us, the people themselves, who returned together and were determined to protect ourselves if that was the case. Il. 5 / 15 19/1997, says, with permission of presidents: I'll be right back. I'll be right back. The law's coming up with a new article, 16. a, as follows: All persons should be provided with access to the disinfectants necessary to comply with these laws and regulations and instructions based on them. - This is fundamental. It is of little value, a respectable president, to offer all kinds of suggestions in an effort to help us protect ourselves in our community if we do not have the tools to do so. In III. section 5 For changes in general penalties, No. 19/1940. That verse states that "the day of Jehovah is near. " Article 5 and paragraph 5: There's a new article in the 127th. a, as follows: Any person at risk who shops at consumers with basic supplies, disinfectants, or any product or service that contributes to the protection from the impending danger, such as raising prices without cause or because of increasing demand, should be brought under fines or prisons for up to 3 months. A lawyer who yokes consumers in a way that distinguishes 1 mgr. the fines should be treated up to 10 million. K. This law already comes into effect.◯ The piece with the bill is pretty powerful. The bill was previously proposed to the 150th legislation, No. 971. In the spring, I explained that we were in the middle of the storm during a so - called first wave of Covidin. Here, in fact, I'm measuring that completely unchanged. I don't really understand why this backup guy isn't hit. In fact, it is in a pure way that we always seem to grab our butt when we have lost everything in our pants. I can't figure out why we can't figure out that we won't make it later. In this case, it is absolutely unacceptable that even one alcohol can be kept fourfold because of its lack of product. It is even four times a price that makes it possible for some to buy it. The entire assembly of Stockholm's people is on the bill, which I naturally forgot to say in the beginning but should have been done, a respectable president. I'm asking respect for that. If a crisis occurs, the price of these products may be significantly affected. The response of the government to the threat may result in significant increases in demand for certain products or significant decreases in products. In such cases, this temptation becomes a reality that I have already spoken about. I'm not going to go through the report. This may not be a reason to extend this, but it's a natural project, and I encourage all of you to study it and read it. The fact is, no one is talking about taking freedom in general from shopkeepers. Rather, they also share in the seriousness of what we are going through, without trying, beyond what is necessary in terms of prices, to profit more from it. To profit from a epidemic, and that is not to be true of the people's group. I hope it doesn't interest any other members of Congress like us. I'm thinking about just finishing it right now. It's a pretty big and big piece of paper, and I'm not gonna give you tired of going through it all. The primary objective of the bill is simply to ensure that all people who need access to needed disinfectants at the critical times we are going through now. It is simply a pandemic now. It should not matter whether people are being kept in a poverty trap, such as tens of thousands of Icelanders are being held here, they also have the right to develop masks, can disinfect their hands, and wash themselves with soap at such times, following the rules and laws laid for us.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u50	A respectable president. Now we're discussing a bill to legalize the people's group about the changing of various laws because of yokes in times of crisis. Fortunately, we're on the last steps of the Covid-19 epidemic that have affected us in such a memorable way and that sort of keeps us in hell for over a year. We knew the situation was serious. At the beginning of the epidemic, a group of people quickly adopted the policy that there was serious things involved that would really have to be taken seriously. We pointed to a variety of ways in this context, such as, especially after the first wave, to take control of the border and not allow the virus to enter. Sadly, the vision we had was not heard. We've also run to the point where at the beginning you don't have masks on the platform. But that changed. We had no parallel to the situation that came up, that we had to go to an opening and wash ourselves completely into one. Basically, the community was just about to explode and wash, and then the masks came. We noticed that in that state there was a shortage of certain things, including masks and alcohol. The result is rising, and it is really sad to know that it has happened in such a state. Of course, such laws should not be made. Of course, when such a situation arises, the government should intervene. They have a legal basis for handling things and making sure that those who need, and especially those that are the worst in society, can afford and can get the necessary items, such as masks and preventatives, needed at any given time. We also know that at that time, the situation was so intense that those who had the least of their hands between them were just at home. They were just in serious trouble. The situation was even the bad thing about people not even being scared out. As a result, people at home were unable to go to a store and also because they did not have a mask and did not have the necessary items. Also, it was stuck at home and could not even use the resources of ordering goods through the Internet to fix it. It sucks to think that someone had to be in that situation in Iceland. These things we have to learn. We have to make sure that if we're expecting something like this again, as they say the experts, we're supposed to be ready and ready to do it and have all our defenses so that the worst in this society can get help and right away. It struck me, too, when I read the news about goods, that, on average, if only in small settlements, goods had an average of 48% greater value in shops. It's a huge difference, a huge difference. In particular, I would say that this was a terrible price for the worst, perhaps at the lowest wage, and may even survive the minimum amount of energy or disability, that people are in the condition of a 10,000-dollar diet. At a low store in the capital area, there are nearly 15,000 in those places. This just shows us in black how quickly they put a group of people in the trouble of not even being able to support themselves. We also know that this is the situation among older people who are on the minimum scale and those who live in micropigs. They may have less transportation to get to where they receive the most favorable terms, and thus they are trapped in their poverty and misery that the government after the government has placed in this group. So it is clear that we must begin to rethink all these systems. The best way to do this would be, of course, to accept a wonderful bill of law and punctuation proposed by a group of people. If that had been the case, it would be a completely different situation for these people, and people would be in a very different place to deal with what comes up and the problems that follow such epidemics. But I'm not going to have my case much further. As I say, this is the best thing to do. We need to be clear that when we're in danger, we have good bills and good laws and rules to deal with the problem so that no one needs to fall between a ship and a dock, no one needs to go to house arrest at home, no one has to starve, and no one can get out of the house because he can't afford the necessary equipment. We will also need to make sure that at all times people have a production to order goods so that they can be sent home but that they do not have to be in complete isolation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u51	A respectable president. I'm just presented in the speaker's chair, that's all, but it's a lot of fun. I recommend a bill to correct a law on environmental assessment. I've done it a few times before, even though I didn't quite know what caused me, except maybe someone--I'm not gonna say it now, maybe it doesn't fit. In 1st. By permission of the President, the bill will say: The following changes will be made to Annex 1 of the Act: a. Team three hundred twenty-two. Let's put it this way: Water power plants installed a power supply of 200 kW or more fall to A-class. b. Team 3.24 puts it this way: Stops using wind power to generate power (vindbu) by 2 MW installed electricity or more fall to Class A. And then it says in 2 gr. that these laws take effect immediately. The A Company is a natural person who puts up with the environmental impacts, and these stations have so far been abdicating everything called environmental impacts, and the bill was essentially the result of a complete appeal to buying rights or setting up such a power and wind power plant. The bill's report says: This case was previously presented at the 150th legislature, 890, but it did not work out. That issue was united in one of the two mains of this material, so it is now both the wind and the water are being brought together here. This has not been thought to be the case when bringing small activations to home bridges, the only small activation in the town brooks at home, that it has to go through all kinds of systems to get through, not at all. In current legislation, water power plants, installed with a power power source of 200 kW or more, and stations using wind power for electricity generation, i.e. cigar, installed power 2 MW or more in Class B in Annex 1. According to 1st mg. Annex 1 shall evaluate projects falling below the B and C category in each case and consequently the environmental impact assessment is not required in such projects. This is really what I'm talking about, that there's no doubt that those who apply to their own bridges in a farm town or around the world for themselves don't have to do environmental assessment. This is basically based on perhaps 10 or 20 licenses for stations less than 10 MWs, e.g. 999 MW, that perhaps many such permits were being collected. It tells itself that it affects nature. Action in the construction and management of the fallways and cigars may have a major impact on the environment and the natural environment. Dissatisfaction exists with the current program where the activations of less than 10 MW electrical forces have been allowed without environmental assessment, as I said earlier. In this case, windmills with 2 MW power may be considerably large and therefore present in the environment, which on its own may cause a variety of disturbances. It is suggested that all hydropower plants installed at 200 kW or more power sources and stations using wind power for electricity generation, i.e. windbu, installed with power of 2 MW or more fall under category A of Annex 1 and implementation will always be subject to environmental assessment. I really hope that this is a good deal to be taken care of. In all the talk about protecting life and nature from us, I and we in The Gang of this bill feel like a total need-to-treat. I hope that the U.S. Senate cares even though there is no one in the hall except the group of Falcons and the Supreme Court. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u52	Mr. President. We're here to discuss dilation of what we call environmental assessment, as we like to cut short, we're going to evaluate the environmental impact of projects or programmes, and this is about power plants. First, I want to draw attention to the fact that in 2018, I made a very similar case, but with a slightly larger limit, and that case again before the council now, so we hesitate. paritaprevir Sæland hareland is calming about the same tickets. I think this lower limit, of 0.2 MW, 200 kW, is too low. I put it myself at 1 MW, i.e. 1,000 kW, which I think is a normal reference for hydrolytics. As far as the wind is concerned, it is talking about one unique mast, unique windmills that have become not just 2 MW but even between 5 and 10 MW, each piece of paper. I'm sure it's an environmental assessment. But I would like to note that if such windmills were to be built on a different level, it would be somewhere in a rural society, where it is likely to be close so that it would only get into that process, probably automatically, based on the community. But let it go. What I wanted to ask isn't about this, it was just information. A senator, who thinks that there has been a working group working on a review of environmental impact, and this is under consultation. Has a what? A senator examined that conclusion?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u53	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir A Ari Guðmundsson for the counter, and he's going to start by saying he's sorry that I said there's no one in this room unless we were in the group of Falcons, but there was no reason. There's a senator here who's keeping an eye on the discussion. The other thing is, I didn't realize that I was wrong either. A senator would have a similar bill. But we have this low standard, this low threshold, because we understood that this is a reference that could be used to the activations that I spoke of as private use, as mentioned earlier. As for the talk group, I haven't studied it so that I can start talking about it with some sense here in the speaker's chair, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u54	A respectable president. There's an opportunity for the council to arrive at the council. We recommend yet another bill, a change in environmental assessment laws, with subsequent changes, of hydropower plants and wind farms. This is the best part. We must realize that we are not in a good environment. We see and become aware now, as our young ones have noted, both around the world and around the globe, that we have been in bad ways near nature and have even ruined future generations in viable surroundings. There is a great need to make such careful observation, and we have and must start putting nature and nature protection in first, second, third and fourth places. We have to stop being one of the most environmental sites in the world, dress up and clean up. This bill is part of it. When I saw a call from a small island on Norway, I was suddenly set up a windmillyard. - I suddenly got a red light, I thought maybe I said something that caused me to get the red card, it might be too deep in the year to give a red card to a discussion about the environment, but I'll just respect it. - But I was talking about a small island at Norway, where it was suddenly set up a huge windmill park and a call came from the people because they had already realized that it had a huge impact on the whole community. They had also come to realize that the figures given as to how good this would affect society were far from being right. They noted that elsewhere in Norway, where such gardens had been installed, the consequences were disastrous. The death of a bird was tremendous. Eagles and other types of birds died in a hurry to land on the windmills. If that's not a warning for us, I don't know what it is. We should not allow ourselves to install something to produce electricity for us, which we even do not need, in the way that results in great harm to birds. It should never be available. And don't just work now because someone thinks it's okay to have only a little activation, as noted, 9.99 MW, because that's when she doesn't have to have a environmental assessment. One day, we're supposed to put our critical glasses on and do research, put strict rules, and make sure that all the factors needed to be taken in order for nature to enjoy the doubt in such matters. We're not doing good enough, and that's why I support the bill with my whole mind. I really hope that it goes through, but I don't think it's gonna work out. That's what happened to you. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson also has a bill that has slightly higher numbers, but it doesn't change capital. If our bill can't go on, then hopefully his bill will, perhaps he has more potential as a member of the board. Given the direction of the left green, there should be a basis for them to participate in this. I can only imagine that this is in their spirit, and I think they agree completely that it's nature's place to enjoy the doubt. We are in the position today that if we need energy to consider how we can work on energy - rich industry, reduce energy demand for most people, think that way. We're always supposed to be careful about that, and we have to do it from this point of view, that nature gets the benefit of the doubt. The future is a good thing, and that is what young people insist on, for the future is theirs. We must try to bring the environment to good terms, preferably in a better state of life than we accepted, though it is most unlikely, but at least not in worse conditions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u55	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a hearing of a policy for the reception of cruise ships. Is the suggestion: The General concluded to hide travel, industrial and innovation ministers to order a team of workers to shape a policy for the welcome of cruise ships in consultation with environmental and resource ministers, transport and local government ministers and Justice Ministers. The order of the service group will ensure that the main stakeholders have a place in the group. A policy will be made to welcome cruises that will deal with the economic, social, and environmental effects of the ships. At the same time, the task force applies specifically to factors such as internalisation, pollution prevention requirements, and safety issues. In addition, the work group performs an assessment of the legal environment and define the rules. The task force submitted a report with proposals for Ministers no later than May 1, 2021. The minister introduces a policy based on the work force's proposals for the Council no later than November 1, 2021, as well as the need for legal adjustment or new legislation. Mr. President. In recent years, there has been rapid growth in the flow of cruises and in the ministry to those in Iceland, many of whom are well - versed. Running cruise ships is complicated. Most passengers come on large cruises and are on cruises. Another large part of this series is education in a foreign route under the guidance of scholars on smaller cruise ships or on so - called expeditions. In all, 22 ports across the country welcome cruise ships. The greatst of the world are the Shipsmen, the Akureyris, and the Isengroves. On the Web site The Board of Travellers, which the Management Board leaves, notes that during the past few years, cruises in the country grew dramatically as there were 284 in 2014 and 725 in 2018. In 2019 C.E., 864 orders were recorded. As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, shipping was greatly reduced during the last summer and only 42. Despite this unusual year of last year, figures in the number of ships visited by Icelanders show a huge increase and there is no reason to believe that a cruise ship will continue to visit Iceland in the next few years when the situation allows for new ones. Those serving a cruise ship have in recent years called for regulations and policy regarding their arrival here. On the other hand, no overall official policy has been shaped for the welcome of such ships on the land. However, very few rural communities have developed some policies in these areas, which can have a significant impact on the reception areas. Nevertheless, it is clear that the pressures of cruises can have far beyond the individual rural areas. Although a cruise ship docks in one community, the most common destinations in organized day - to - day trips from ships outside the coastal town itself are strong pressures in those areas in a short period of time. So do passengers who visit Isenafjörður e.g. To Bolungarvík, to Flatyrs, even to Theingys and beyonds, in Vigur and even into the glacier. All passengers arriving port in Akureyri leave, e.g. Many in the CEE and other areas around the region, so it is not just the towns that themselves receive passengers who face this pressures but much larger areas around them. Therefore, the movers of this suggestion have concluded that there is a clearer need for better management in these areas, since the arrival of cruise ships brings challenges that are important to respond as soon as possible. By official policies, there would be an opportunity for further influence on the building of this article. Of course, the effect is also positive, but we need to sit down and assess the pros and cons of cruise ships and try to reduce the negative effects and increase the positive. Mr. President. This resolution suggests that travel, industrial, and innovation ministers will be appointed by a team to shape a policy for the reception of cruise ships, as stated earlier, in agreement with the former Ministers. Similarly, we suggest that the order of the work group will ensure that the main stakeholders do not share the language field that is spreading widely. The strategy shall address the economic, social, and environmental effects of the ships. In particular, there are factors such as extraterrestrial conquests and the need to limit the records of cruise ships to such matters; the demand for pollution protection not only when ships are at the docks but also when they sail inside the landway. taking into account the objectives of carbon abstraction, and what environmental requirements are needed for cruise ships that sail on Iceland's coasts; as well as security and emergency plans for the cruises around the country. The question then needs to be answered as to whether cruises should be restricted to the country, especially in regard to air pollution and carbon footprints. In addition, the work group will be assigned to assess the legal environment and set out the rules, but it is necessary that the legal environment be clearly defined and responsible. Mr. President. Especially do we need to be aware of the factors mentioned above, especially economic influences, and especially the income and cost of docks because of the ships. We need to discuss especially the land of cruise ships outside the sea, but in view of the increase in so - called expeditions'attractions, it is important to shape the rules about their land voyages. At present, there are no announcements and regulations that are very vague, nor has there been any monitoring where they take land. An example of this is the land of cruise ships in the Horn Beach Peaceland, where no entire kennel has been established since mid - last century, and territory has been protected since 1975. The EEA has won a management and protection programme for the reservation, which is finally limited to the land of cruise ships. But we need to answer such questions: Are we ready to allow cruiseers to set, for example? To the country of large groups of passengers in peaceland? Mr. President. We also need to deal with the security concerns, but the safety profile of cruises with Icelanders is relevant, including the U.S. Risk of pollution accidents, disease, and accidents We need to map out the resources available in view of the increase in these cruise ships, both Iceland and North, where there is also a very sensitive environment. In this context, we need to look to the experience of other nations and to see if there is any basis for adapting the Icelandic law of other nations that has been given more strict conditions for cruises, especially on environmental factors and limitations in their relationship with them. Mr. President. At present, slow motion or even complete freezing in international tourism. So there are few cruise ships that come to this country, and it is not anticipated that their arrival will increase again until the outbreak of a pandemic crown virus has been established. So now there is an ideal opportunity to use the time to shape a vision for the future, with a clear direction on how to accept cruise ships. The conclusion of such policies may be that there is a greater policy frame to set for the reception of cruise ships in Iceland, but the conclusion may well be that we are quite content with the current situation and may not want to change much. However, we do not know until we sit down and take the conversation, and we need to do so. Above all, though, it is about how we want to see the article developing and prospering to the future. Mr. President. However, in view of the lateness of the case here, it is suggested that the staff submit a report with a Minister's proposal no later than May 1, 2021, but I believe that, in view of the lateness of the case, it was reasonable for the committee to consider suggesting a delay in these timeliness. The proposals include, plus those, Logi Einarsson, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Brjánsson, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynjolfsdólól, Thordur Ævarsdóttir Hevótir, Halldorra Mogensen, and Líneik Sævarsdóttir Seavarsdo.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u56	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a bill to correct the conversion of collection laws, No. 95/2008. It's a matter of nature towards increased consumer protection in a financial market, as I will be doing here. Transporters besides me are nuts. Councilmen Árnadóttir Kolbrún Arnaddóttir, Bergþór Birgir, Þórarinsson, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, Jónsson and Sigurður Sæmundsson. This bill is now submitted for the third time. It was previously proposed to a 149th legislature and a Council of 150, but it did not succeed and is now slightly changed. The bill is rooted in the opinion of the emissary of the Generalist in the case of No. 8302/2014 and was established by domestic complaint against a lack of surveillance of collected activities. In the case of the matter, it was found that several companies who were involved in a collection operation were under the supervision of the SEC and the police union of Iceland, with the result that neither of them actually had any control over them. Thus, there was a serious gap in collected activities. In order to trace the story, it was with law No. 55/2018 that changes were made to the collection laws intended to respond to these findings of the Allied agent in the aforementioned language. They turned out to be going in the wrong direction, and then they have suggested that the changes were not as good as expected. It seems that the work of a collected company is still unsupervised or unclear as to how monitoring is being conducted and, therefore, the change from 2018 has not taken away all unambiguously. This bill has been negotiated in such indications. Withinsets are divided into two groups; on the one hand, those who are allowed by a principle are under the supervision of the Commission; and on the other hand, those who are not authorized. The exception principle including We're government agencies, finance companies, lawyers and law firms. This arrangement in itself is not unusual, in view of the fact that financial companies are, for example, under the supervision of the SEC, but Iceland's Police Association supervises law enforcement. As a result of collecting the demands of clients, legal jobs, which can be defined as secondary work with the main activity, i.e. Law service. It is similar to that of a financial enterprise, no. 161/2002, in the case of interoperative service, and given as a normal part of a more extensive field of activity. Nevertheless, it is abnormal and can create uncertainty and failure in monitoring if companies who have collected that their main activity can avoid the duties of the Marketing Authorisation just by signing their owners as lawyers. At the same time, it is a fall to disrupt the competitive position of retailers with a license that meets all the conditions that other companies in the same market can have a permit. Therefore, with the bill it is suggested that a clearer separating be made between enterprises through legal services as main activity and companies that have collected for others as primary activity and that any disproportionate analysis of the activities of the latter, regardless of ownership, will be made. In view of the indications given by the International Economic Associations Association, it is also suggested in the bill that information collected by consumers' Courtship and that it be asked to monitor the business level by other means according to the regulations for business and market surveillance. Mr. President. As I mentioned at the outset, this business turns to an increase in financial protection by filling in gaps with monitoring of taxpayers and by requiring an improvement in the information collected by consumers on the rights of consumers. I present the hope that the bill will succeed here at the High Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u57	A respectable president. You've got to take advantage of this opportunity to make friends here at the Generals when you get involved in agreeing with the Central Party and the Waffle. His deputies. I'm very into this situation. I have to draw attention to the fact that there is a community in this community called the National Aggressive Association, and this fine society has quite often been found to be a bill, a very good prototype, in my opinion. The things I have studied from them often address a very deep - seated problem in the community that the General Assembly or the Government places for some reason not in the highest priority. For that reason, it is not likely that a free organization in a town would write bills or be so involved in the legislation. But then I want to make a special announcement among members of Congress that this organization is taken seriously. You see, I get the feeling, I don't have any more evidence than the feeling, that it underestimates the benefits of these organizations on committees and respectable work there. That's why I want to thank you too. The members of the Central Party for providing this good bill. But I come up here mostly to briefly cover small loans and consumer financial protection in general. You see, it's a matter of growth that we are not born with financial awareness. Just as we need to learn to read, so we need to learn how to read. We can learn on our own, but this does not happen on our own, and people in today's community need to learn a lot about financial matters in order to protect themselves from various traps set for wild people, such as small loans, even banks, large and respected financial institutions, but large financial institutions where people really know what they're doing or think they're aware of it. Another example of this is how insurance will affect people's interests without being recognized. The results of the 2008 collapse show conclusively that the public who took prices of mortgages, often with very high interest, and even payment and the like, was not in a good position to recognize the consequences of their actions. That, a respectable president, is not freedom in my book. Freedom is the ability to make informed decisions about your own interests, your own future, and the information needs to be available. That's the same rule of democracy. It needs to be enlightened. People need to learn, they need to think, they need to study things to make the democracy work. And so are other forms of freedom. People need to understand and know. That is absolutely essential to the advancement of freedom and democracy. Yet, despite the deep principles of money and money in today's society, we, as well as others, have very little emphasis on financiallocks. Without financial lock, people sometimes fall into traps, such as a small loan operation. Even in this discussion of small loans, I have heard members of Congress point out that there are people who can't afford food at the end of the month and who may even have to look to small loans. That wording underscores my point. There is no solution. Small-borrowing isn't a solution to anything, it's only making things worse. It is an immoral operation in my opinion, and it completely misuses people's natural understanding of money. We do not teach the community about money. We don't teach it so it can be in elementary school, yes, a little math and percentage accounts, but it's just not enough, a respectable president, it's just not enough at all. Making informed financial decisions, however, may involve quite a lot of work. Now we live in a relatively offensive society, and I know that this phrase, to suggest that people need to know more money, to insult some people, and that they just have to have it. It's just like reading. It needs to be learned at some point in order to know it. We are not born with this knowledge. It may not be that the public citizen, who never gets the opportunity to gain this knowledge, makes some huge distinction between 3% or 4% when he borrows or what the cost of payment may have on an apartment loan and an opportunity to reimburse and make all of them pennies. When it comes to defending the citizens for the most damaging financial desires, we will simply have to, at least, until financial locks are as likely as being able to read texts over heads, to place strings on the activities that abuse people's circumstances in the way of minor loans, and to some other financial measures as offered. It's a key figure. To be honest, I think it's a little strange how it's expected of the civilian that he understands the financial system and the financial system, as if only people should be born with this knowledge. It's not like that. Of course not! You see, money, whether it's more or less, is a complete prelude to our own speciality and is therefore one of the basics of modern society, even old - fashioned society, if it is gone, an old invention. It is strange that we do not stress that the common citizen has knowledge of such fundamentals and knows them well and can make financial decisions more easily without falling into some trap, such as small loans. Legally, this isn't necessarily a pleasant subject, I get it. I doubt that many who are interested in solving these problems are particularly interested in finding out about existing legal solutions. Rather, thanks to an organization such as the National Aggressive Association and other members of the community that care for this matter, to try to fix our system so that people are safer for this operation, they can better conduct their decisions in a more informed and informed manner. At the beginning of my talk, I said that I was going to speak briefly or at least implied it strongly. I'm thinking of breaking the point of my mania and sticking to it. So I'll finish my case, but thank you again. The members of the Central Party for providing this good bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u58	Mr. President. I'm getting up here to thank you. paritaprevir His excellent speech is Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson. I realize that even though our paths don't always mix in politics, we're in part allies. We're in the business we're talking about here, or at least which I'm speaking for today, which is the improved financial protection of consumers. And I look at it. A member of the council as a very well-trusted member of the team in the battle for increased and improved rights of consumers in financial markets. There is no need for this. The thing we're talking about right now is filling in the gaps. No one is to be put up with collections on the part of a person who is not under normal supervision, whether it's the SEC or the Police Association after the incident. From now on, I will recommend a case that involves the activities of those who have the means to dissociate and such. Of course, I'm delighted to hear it. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson was to join the ranks of us who have fought against our insurance policy. He mentioned the great danger that people are facing because they pledge to be responsible for a financial gain that is inherently devolved and is a phenomenon even used by financiers. I'd like to thank you for your time too. A member of the International Habits Association and agrees with them. I've had a great deal of cooperation with the fine organization before I sat down to the council and after I sat down at the council. They may thus have a higher level of legal knowledge. We may both know it, we know it. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u59	A respectable president. It's so fun at Pirate's basic policy that we believe in informed decisions and also that it doesn't matter where ideas come from. I strive to examine ideas regardless of the direction they come from. I think there's a slight underappreciated rule in politics in general, but it doesn't mean there's something people need to boast about if they're gone. It's just an honest practice and a minimum, in my opinion. I can't help but agree with what I have to say. A senator, especially when it comes to such things as insurance. I just have to share how it happened that I was opposed to insurance. It was a process, as is often the case when you're making a bellow to a big subject. A few factors led me to that direction, but one of those things - being an amateur about mortgages and other things that ordinary people might find boring - was that I was often giving advice to friends and nurses around loans, whether they could be reimbursed, whether it was sensible, and so on. That experience so clearly helped me to see how people are really in a bad position to understand these matters if they are not very familiar with them. We're gonna go for a second. Since it is natural to study these matters, when it comes to them, we are in a privileged position, but the ordinary citizen who just wants a roof over his head and works on something else, say filmmaking, or whatever, does not have a realistic opportunity to examine all the consequences of such a large financial agreement, especially when they are in practice detrimenting, such as it is. A senator rightly points out. Price insurance is the result of a switch that is normally quite strong about normal relationships. I can't help but agree with what I have to say. A senator and shall be sworn to support the issues of the Central Party in financial matters, when they are correct, like this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u60	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a resolution of a review of a rule on the activities of a financial information agency. Transporters besides me are nuts. Councilmen Árnadóttir Kolbrún Arnaddóttir, Bergþór Birgir, Þórarinsson, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Þorsteinn Gauti Hjaltason, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, Sæmundsson, Sigurdráfjörmundsson and Helgi Gunnarsson. As with the case mentioned above, a change in the law of collects makes this matter more consumer protection in a financial market. I'm going, with the permission of the President, to read the proposal for Congress as discussed here: ▪ The General concludes to hide the Minister of Justice to appoint a judicial committee that will review laws and regulations that apply to the implementation of financial information and the implementation of information that is relevant to financial and credit to individuals and to the legal bodies in order to communicate them to others. The staff give special attention to consumer legal status on the financial market in the processing of such information and provide suggestions for improving the status of consumers in this field. The Minister of Justice appoints the head of the staff without a form of appointment, but the secretary of finance and economics, travel, industrial and innovation, domestic Aggressive Affairs and the Neighbours Association nominate each member of the staff. The task force has agreed with the National Protection Agency, the National Health Organization, the SEC, other members of the Union and institutions that may be involved. The task force submitted a report with proposals for Ministers no later than June 1, 2021. Secretary introduces the results of the Group's work group to the General Assembly. Mr. President. This arrangement was previously submitted to the 150th legislature but was not decomplied. The proposal is now reassigned with slight changes. Business management of a financial information agency conceals, including includes collection and registration of information that concerns financial issues and credit to individuals and legislators, in order to communicate them to others. In this country, there is only one company that operates in such a business. The work involved mainly the keeping of records of financial commitments, so-called dissociation, and the main commitments to financial companies, so-called credit statements. Is It Out? No. 33/2013, and fixing mortgages to consumers, No. 118/2016, the type of credit ratings has had increasing significance as a requirement for borrowing, but this assessment is based largely on information derived from the undergrading and credit status index, thus involving the automatic processing of personal information, i.e. The type of character format. Mr. President. So I'm running the story here very short then there was the sentence of a new law on personal protection and the processing of personal information, no. 90/2018, mandatory regulations comparable to those contained in the principles of personal protection and the handling of personal information, No. 77/2000, on the processing of financial information, a new reference was specifically referred to the processing of personal information carried out in the production of credit tools and stated that the process would have to be based on the permission of Perone Protection. Detailed implementation of the work rules can be found in Regulation on collection and sharing information on financial issues and credit trust, No. 246/2001. Under the Regulation, the operation is subject to authorized condition and can be a physical protection bound to such a license to which it feels necessary at any particular time. It has, for example. The application procedure has been performed for a certain period of time, with conditions that have been revised by the renewal of the individual permit. With the sentence of a new protection law I once mentioned, No. 90/2018, however, no special review was made. Nevertheless, a paper with a bill that became the law of No. 90/2018 that review of Regulation is timely. The need to review and clarify the rules for the implementation of financial information agency has been made clear following the 2008 financial breakdown in terms of concerns that have raised legitimate demands in view of consumer protection regulations. Especially in the case of so - called small loans with illegal high - loan expenses that have been heavily collected, including by using the dissociation form as a threat and a threat to consumers. Mr. President. No review of the 2001 Regulation. In this regard, I want to draw attention to the answers at the highest level. Minister of Justice asking me for collection and sharing financial information. The request is from Council 150 on deck. 2119, No. 772, including asked: ▪ When and in what way to review Regulation No. 246/2001, on collection and sharing information on financial and credit issues, and what is defined stakeholders who are expected to consult with them? □ What aspects of the Regulation do Ministers feel the need to be reviewed? In answer to the highest. Minister says, with the permission of the president: It is aimed at reviewing Regulation No. 246/2001, on collection and sharing information on financial issues and credit trust, in the coming fall and winter. There is a need for a review of the Regulation. taking into account new personal protection laws. In this case it is likely that there will be a special evaluation of the specific requirements for the implementation of environmental protection regulations in relation to the type and collection of information on credit ratings, but in this case. 1.mg. 1st par. The Regulation does not take into account activities that include the publication of the reports on credit ratings. In review of the Regulation, special consultation will be made with the Federal Protection and the Ministry of Employment and Development, which deals with consumers' issues. When it comes to a new Regulation, it can be assumed that it will be published in the government's consultations, where all can express comments. As previously said, Mr. President, there will be no charge of this revised Regulation. She's 20 years old or next. Thus, this interpretation proposal is intended to encourage the highest order. The minister of judicial hearings to the extent of the urgent matter. I give you the hope, Mr. President, that this proposal will be well substantiated here at the high Council as a step toward increasing the protection of consumers in the financial market.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u61	Mr. President. I recommend a case that I have previously performed in the councils, a change in the law on the affairs of the elderly, and as a side product of this matter, a change in health care law, with subsequent changes, and a law on the law of a home and residence, which are automatic cohesion of this matter. The movers with me on this matter are left behind. Councilmen: Helgi Gunnarsson, Guvánsson S. Brjánsson, Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Kolbeinn Óttarsson of Proppé, Trausti Traus Guðmundsson, Þorbjörg Gunnlaugsdóttir Gunnlótir, and Hanna Katrín Friðriksson. The bill goes out of the way to ensure that marriage mates in nursing homes have the opportunity to do so, and they have the law to continue living with their loved ones even though they live in a nursing home. Many may feel that this is quite obvious, but it is not quite simple. Like what? Congress officials know the value of laws in the country that turn to make it possible to have a home in a nursing home for a so - called exercise and health evaluation. Therefore, a legal bill such as this must arrange for certain exceptions to be obtained from this assessment. I'm going to read the first paragraph because it actually explains the rest, the rest of the bill's terms leads to the first. This is an addition to the law on the affairs of the elderly, so it says, by permission of a president: ▪ At 14 pars. The law will add two new paragraphs, as follows: A man who spends long time in an institution for the elderly should be able to stay with his mate or with his spouse when the circumstances allow. A man should pay fair rent on account of his presence and pay the cost of his stay. Depending on the circumstances, the Agency's services will be available for charge. According to this paragraph, it is important to include this, the undersidency - a physical and mental assessment and to have a home outside the agency. A marriage or a partner may remain in the aging institution for up to eight weeks after the death of a household. At this time, the possibility of continued stay on the Agency should be determined and the right to stay at that time should be dropped unless the result of an assessment of performance and health status has been established. Section 15. if there is a basis for continuing residence, to gain the relative right of the household to have an institution for the elderly. The following articles will then contain regulations. 2.g. turned to the advisation from performance and health assessment, referred to in Article 1. The bill, Section 4. Returning to health care laws, which are referred again to the same procedure as later added law on law enforcement and the setting up provision for marriage mates in a nursing home or a home under proper law. A similar bill has been brought here before. This is not the first time at all. You should mention that I have fallen out of the report to the highest level. The health minister of Svandís Svavarsdóttir first presented a similar subject before the council and enjoyed relating that at that time the writer wrote a review in a case where I tore in a way that would be the most reasonable way to do this. In fact, the current bill is a product of their escape. The matter is about important rights. This involves the loss of someone's health so that they cannot completely care for themselves or their spouse completely support the person in the home they are, that they do not have to mean that they really need to be separated. These may be very painful when they occur. In many cases, this community is not at all wanted. Often, the illness of a nursing home may have made it difficult for a spouse, and it may no longer be in position to stay with the person in the same way as before. There is no way that humans necessarily seek these rights. But it has to be in my opinion when people want it. Because we haven't come to where we wanted to be, in my opinion, that at least everyone living in nursing homes has the option to live in homes in these homes that can't be, at least, at least, the text in pars. The bill is completely indiscriminate. That is why he is spoken, as stated in the 1st saying. g., ◯ where the situation allows. The report explains that this may refer to a marriage mate offering only space in farms or farms, e.g. that the person is in a closed ward, as it may be very burdensome for a mate to have to put up with the rules the department may establish, or other reasons. As I mentioned earlier, no one under the current law can live in a nursing home without having had an exercise and health assessment. That's why that release is so important. That is why this harmony is so important. The nature of the matter must also arrange for the household - moving spouse to have access to the services offered by the home, not just the busiest. It requires a secretary's authority to determine exactly what exactly it will be. This may be of great benefit because the person may be able to develop a nursing, medical, or physical training facility at the site and other services that may be available there. It also requires that in the case of a person's death, his or her mate is not exactly pushed out of his home that same day but is given sufficient pressure to cope with new circumstances. Similarly, a nursing home or nursing home should take steps to make the individual's performance and health assessment so that it can be evaluated for the basis for continued living. As I mentioned earlier, Mr. President, it is in my opinion that a certain matter of rights is involved. Significantly, as a community, we look at something that as we grow older and our circumstances change, society will not do anything to add to the social problems that may result from the change. The community will do much more to work with these individuals, and when possible, it will be done on the part of all people in order to handle matters this way. In effect, this has provided us with a much more personal way to cope with these changes in their lives and their lives. That's why I think it's important. I hope the bill is getting good publicity on that. The welfare committee, and perhaps least, in view of the fact that this time it has four members, and that, this time, we can do it closer. It is important that these rights of people become guaranteed and that as a community, we do what we can to welcome people when they make difficult decisions about changing their way of life.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u62	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Or may Þór Gunnarsson, the son of Gunnar, speak for this matter, and for his persistence and hard work to overreach it. This is a good matter that matters for those involved. To be honest, when a person has to take the step of moving into an institution in marriage, I do not talk about a compatible couple who want to spend the rest of their life together and for the last hour. But like a dog. A senator entered them as such an arrangement is not unique and must consider each case on an individual basis. Where appropriate, this can have a profound effect on the well - being and well - being of the individual and can often have a positive effect on the quiet environment in nursing homes, even if it is only a short period of time. I'd like to ask you what. A senator to see if there's anything he can value. This is a former medical assistant, a medical specialist, who knows and understands the situation. Can he measure the scope of this, how many cases we can talk about, and if there are any factors to evaluate the impact on the costs and general functioning of the organisation? Could this be the case? Does this have to be assumed in the institutional organization regarding a situation? And finally: Does the senator believe that this can affect the individual's provision or living expenses, affecting the individual's payments from insurance, such as the insurance system is prepared today?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u63	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón who Brjánsson and thanks Brunsson for his support in this matter he has shown in action. But these were some questions. I may not be able to answer all of them in the first round. First, about how many people this may be. It's hard to say. We know that in nursing homes every year, there are between 1,000 and 1,500 houses, and we know that not all of these are married to each other when they enter their homes. Now I just can't remember, but I feel that it's a smaller part of those who have a mate alive when they move into a nursing home. Still, there is no need to mean that all these mates would want to move along, so it is extremely difficult to say about it, and the experience would have to tell us. But I don't think this would mean an increase in costs for the institutions, especially if this is well prepared in a Regulation, so that the cost lies primarily in what one would pay for as a service, e.g. the cost of food, medical care, and so on, as if they were elsewhere. In some ways it could even be a government economy, to form in the medical and nursing profession if the partner needed it, to provide it where it is anyway. I think it's worth it, if I understand what you're saying. A member of the Parliament, if in some cases it is necessary to change the organization. Yeah, I think that's what it takes. I believe it is, however, that the possibility of a career and organization has to be expected, and there may be some cost to the future. But I don't have it in my head in what way it would be, and it may be even bigger than a short answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u64	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, and he knows the subject in matters. This is normal, and in most new households, there is a good space where it can be settled temporarily so that two parties can live together. Yet, today, in 2021, even in recent homes for the elderly, there are two altogether inaccessible strangers to live together in a long - term room. This is unworked and gives evidence of the situation in this age group. This is heavy. Whether it is a person who lives in a tiny room with no bathrooms or in a room of room with a bathroom and a shower and even a small kitchen jar, the payment is the same. It brings to mind how we've built and developed this system. So I ask the senator: Is this acceptable? Is it not reason to listen to the voices that call for changes, both for the elderly at home and for the arrangements we receive when we are brought into this environment? And then at the end, I'm going to pick up the big sledgehammer and look for advice. A senator: Are we in a position to reconsider whether we need special laws for the elderly, whether or not they can fit within the general legal code that deals with citizens in the community?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u65	Mr. President. I mean, about the last thing that ever happened. A senator came in and called the big sledgehammer I've waved that hammer myself for several times. I think we've just arrived to reconsider whether we need specific laws on the issues of older people. The Senator is fully familiar with my arguments in the past, i.e. Older people are exactly the same as the rest of us. True, the group may be somewhat more variable than people of the best age, but people with desires, desires, and expectations, just like others. The Senator asked: Is the present system, the arrangement we are currently using, acceptable? In fact, delivering a matter, such as this, in part answers to that question: No, the system is not at all acceptable, since we are here trying to change it. But there are so many things we have to pick up, pick up the system, or the system we've used. One of them is e.g. The process of payment, as of any given moment. A senator mentioned. I've been a spokesman for the revision, and it's actually being revised in the daily spending system of aging institutions. There's one breath of this. However, the matter is much bigger, especially when we expect nursing homes to be people's homes. Then perhaps we should allow ourselves to change just thinking, perhaps the arrangement, and the currency to take much more into account because we are going to make people feel at home. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u66	Mr. President. I present a proposal for a hearing about the duty of tourism to provide a carbon balance to the sale of services. My importers in this case have a problem. Councilmen Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Guðjón S. Brjánsson, Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, and Rafney Magnúsdóttir Magnúsdótir. The proposal is to hide travel, industrial, and innovation ministers together with the Environment and Resource Minister and Transport and Regional Ministers to win a legal bill that obligatory sales in travel services to offer a level of carbon balance to sell travel and other services. The bill will be submitted no later than in the fallfloor of 2021. I presented a similar subject during the last assembly, which was then discussed but did not succeed. By means of the Parliament's resolution proposal, the minister and council are ordered to win a bill that makes sales available for travel services, and then we are talking about pilots, car rents, shelters, traffic sales, and other vehicles, obliged to offer carbon equations to sell on trips and other services. The government, as the members of Congress are aware, has decided on climate policy that Iceland will become a non-carbon objector in the year 2040. Internationally, this is a lot of talk, and many countries have adopted such a course in different ways. Public awareness has also increased. There is much to discuss about carbon balance and noncarbonization. The proposal makes it easier for the public to make decisions that are positive for the environment. Happily, though, some tourism are already offering carbon balances, but it is a long way off with the goal that tourism is fully balanced. To achieve this, it is expected that there will be a change in a number of laws, and it will be moved in the form of a synonym. Transporters believe that it is important that the consumers continue to be selective in evaluating the importance of this kind of service, while the obligation to have this type of service on an available basis is with the dealer. This is important in making consumers aware of the sources of carbon dioxide that may come from travel but at the same time enable them to respond positively to that knowledge. Transporters believe that by obliging buyers to pay for carbon balance, rather than to be selective, the change may be burdensome for both traders and consumers. Therefore, it is chosen to have the carbon equation selective, at least in the beginning. For Icelandic tourism, image structure is just an important factor, and the country has considerable interest in tourism. The message that was born in that this could not be sold a trip, whether by a whale's boat or by a rental car or by what it is, in a single sentence, would you like to be sold, or might you be invited to equal the service you're buying? It would be a very important message that Icelandic society is constantly thinking about this because we are going to reach our goals. It's very important for us as a tourist country that goes on to go on, let's hope that, at the end of each year, we'll receive a message: Yes, from where I was coming, it's only considered that it's only a matter of reminding people on almost every occasion that carbon balance is available. This is what I think can be enormously important and be a good commercial for Icelandic tourism. Since most tourism companies update their presentations almost every year, some of them each year, it can be assumed that they would now have the opportunity to make such changes in their service opportunities without being very taxing for their companies. Of course, it would somehow cause some minor software and something like that, but the benefits would really be much greater, that I think. In a way, it is always that you have such an offer on the product that you are selling is almost as small ad for the company, that the company is thinking about the environment, and that it is important enough to make this choice. Where it can be assumed that this would involve considerable work and would have to go over many laws, it is chosen in the motion to give counsels more than a bit of time to win a bill and put it forward, as it is important that this is done in good consultation, not only between these advisers, but also in consultation and cooperation with the stakeholders involved. Mr. President. I think with the approval of the proposal, we would be taking a very important step in increasing the competitiveness, competition in some way, Icelandic tourism and our sending a very clear and important message about how Iceland's tourism service would like to be. I don't think that's ever more important than that we do now.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u67	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a synonym of full separation between state and church and new overall legislation on the activities of religious and biological organizations. This council proposal has been made by the people here and why. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's son, the Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, Andrés Ingi son of Jónsson, Björn Leví the son of Gunnarsson, Helga Helgadóttir, and Hrafn Höfni the son of Gunnarsson. Freedom to establish a society of beliefs and principles is, I think, one of the fundamental elements of the community we've agreed on and guaranteed by law. For this freedom to be real, both in word and at table, there must be other fundamental factors that we agree on, which are equal and equal. However, it contains a broken pot and has to be reassigned. The relationship between religion and its establishments has a long history in many parts of the world, and in chapters it has been difficult to distinguish between secular and spiritual authority, as everyone knows. The story of this link is rich in Iceland. In effect, from the beginning it extends from the pagan custom to Christianity, later the Reformation, and finally into the development of a state - and - church relationship, after the Icelanders received a constitution and took their case into their own hands as an independent and sovereign nation. The Conspiracy proposal presented here for today was also submitted to the last council and is now submitted with an update in the report, where numbers are mainly updated compared with the development of religions since the end of the bill was submitted. Madam President. State and church have a long, interwoven history. At the same time, the church has had religious, cultural, and social roles. Respect and acknowledge. In recent decades, however, there have been significant changes in attitudes toward religion and its role in modern society, especially in connection with the State and the balance between religious, biological, and those who choose to stand outside such associates. A report by the Minister of Justice to the General for Church status and its connection with the State shows that the Icelandic State pays the National Church on the basis of contracts made in addition to its other income stocks, legally as an illegal. Other religions and institutions do not enjoy the same kind of payment, thus having a special place above them. On September 6, 2019, an additional contract signed by the Icelandic State and the National Church was signed on a review of church contracts and remunerations and public church members from January 10, 1997, and the Icelandic state and national church contract on the cost of priestly reforms and testimonials, remuneration of the Episcopal office, contributions to the Christian Fund, and special contributions to the National Church since September 4, 1998. There have been, however, some questions presented at the General Assembly that have to do with the financial connection between Church and State, especially on the basis of the church meeting, i.e. any of the real value of the land laid down. Madam President. In Iceland, there is freedom of worship. The other is that one religion has a unique position. The Evangelical Lutheran Church shall be a National Church in Iceland and shall therefore be supported and protected by the State. It can be changed by law. This is what the 62rd chapter says. The constitution. Organizational, role, and communication are contracts and customs. No other religious or biological society enjoys a somewhat comparable position, so far away. Of course, this has its historical explanation. Member States that the State of the nations has made great changes in the last century and even more so in this century. It is safe to say that 100% of the population at the time may have been in the National Church, but this situation has changed dramatically. Here, I only update numbers from those who are in the updated bill report because things are changing rapidly. According to Economics, about 90% of the people in the National Church in 1998 and 62.2% at the beginning of this month, respectively. That is when people in the National Church have virtually reduced the number of roads since 2010. In 1998, 244,893 enrolled in the State Church, and 229,653 on February 1. A total of over 28,000 individuals are enrolled outside of religion and principles, or approximately 28,000 persons 7.6%, and over 55,000 with unspecified registration, or approximately 15%. So the conclusion is that those outside the National Church are just over 40,000 at the beginning of February, but, as previously said, there are more than 230,000 in the National Church. This trend has been ongoing over the last ten years, or all the streets since 2010, and there is no specific evidence that this is changing. This body of interpretation suggests two things: First, there will be a legal bill, which includes full segregation of state and church in the form, content, and financial structure. This means that there will be a series of commitments based on current legislation and special agreements, including the regulations of the Constitution of the State Church, which ensures special positions over other religious and biological institutions. The proposal to negotiate the final resolution of all agreements is expected to be made so that it will be completed no later than in 2034. So there is a length and lengthy delay in this matter. Concomitantly, it is also suggested to provide a core bill on a comprehensive set of legislation relating to a partner of beliefs and principles. It will set out a general rule on their activities and according to experiences as to whether the State should be involved in the current collections or whether such collections will remain entirely in the hands of its partners without the presence of the State. The bill also includes regulations on how to deal with the budget, and it is thought that it would be necessary to delegate certain social projects to them. They will then be made special temporary service contracts and will be fully equal between those partners who want to take on such assignments and meet the general requirements for professional ability and other necessary activities. Then it should be made clear, because here we are dealing with matters that are certainly large in many ways and indeed, that the Church itself is not opposed in itself because these steps will be the stage and leading of the Church, Mrs. Agnes, Bishop's Sigurðardóttir, have said that ties to the State are no special priority to the church, that the church's duties are primarily in cultivating and maintaining relations with the nation. So the church is not opposed in any way. Of course, the nations give much warning on how this will be accomplished. That is why the proposal, including the one who hides the motion, is hidden. in a relatively long time to handle these matters. They are complex and require careful action. It is also proper to make very clear that the proposal does not violate the national church as a religion or a Christian religion at all. The purpose, however, is to create equality and equality. The State and the Church have a long history, and at the same time the church has a religious, cultural, and social function. As mentioned earlier, it must be respected and acknowledged. Hence, the practice is given so much time, or 15 years, until there is a full separation, and all the loose ends of the case have been resolved. Madam President. I realize that some may think that this is a pretty bed of time and would like to go faster for work. I clearly believe that this is the way of growth and the extent of the situation that it is necessary to give a very reasonable amount of time so that everyone's loose ends can be reached and that they can be allowed to make room for the relevant person, give them a good opportunity to adapt to the changed circumstances. It is not only in Iceland that events of this kind have been discussed and discussed. The countries that we are close to are examples of this. This arrangement varies. I think it's safe to say that in Denmark the state and church are still quite a bit interwoven. In Sweden, however, there has been a complete separation between Church and State. It may be possible to obtain models and ideas there. If I understand this correctly, there is still an arrangement where the state is involved in the collection of pay to the Swedish Church, of course full of religious freedom, and the decision is whether to be enrolled in the church. Then there are principles that have to do with cultural benefits, because of church buildings and the like, help to keep it going and so on. It has been solved by various contracts to make this possible. But the end goal, I think, on behalf of the movers, is to get this thing to the point that the nations and other religions, including biological institutions, stand at the most on their own level, that those in those communities are at their best behind their religion or society of life and the state pay streets after incidents, though mostly in buying certain services. No one is questioning e.g. The church, which is by far the largest and thus the most active in this field, has had and still has a social role. This does not mean that they have a role or need to be religious or that there are no others who can do that. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Madam President. I'll finish up here hoping that the case will be well discussed by a committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u68	President. It is a valid return to one of the last councils to stand here in opposition to what. A senator on this matter, because I'm going to have the same answer. So it's a matter of growth that I still don't quite understand what I'm going to ask about, and I thought maybe it would only be involved in the report, but it's not. The fact is, no matter what my opinion is on the content of the Parliamentary arrangement, which I like about a lot of ways, in 2012 the following questions were asked in the National Bank: Do you want a new constitution to be made up of a state church in Iceland? This approved participants in that national law, little fewer than accepted another question about the equalness of votes. I'm just a little surprised at some of the transporters, some of whom, I've never heard, have held it up to the national law as a very important milestone in the Constitution that should be respected and even referred to as having about a recent year. 40,000 Icelanders signed a signing list to respect their national requirements. But here again, there is a suggestion to go against the same national law. So I want to ask you why. A senator once again, regardless of the very contents of the proposal: Does he count the 2012 National pay as meaningless so that it is not to be followed, as it seems to indicate?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u69	Madam President. I appreciate the answer. You're right next door. A senator asked the same question, so I thought it might be settled between us. And so it is natural that I'm getting older just as in chickens, so now I'm going to remember what I said last time. I'm not quite sure I'll remember it perfectly, but let's see if I can't deal with this. For the first time, this national decree was made ten years ago, and since then much water has flowed to the sea. I did, for example. that there has been a steady decrease in the number of those who feel that they share with the State Church by being in that congregation. So since the national ultimatum, the number of people in the nation's churches has decreased by thousands. It may affect people's viewpoints. It should also be noted, though it may be so urgent to speak from this chair here, in comparison with the National Church, that according to the latest reliable analysis, 32% of the people of the World Council trusts, but 31% of the Common Church. I don't know if it's fair to put it in this context, but I'll answer this, so this case is of their nature that there's nothing wrong with moving it in spite of the results of this analysis which, like the driving. A senator rightly points out, there has not been any reason to respect very much so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u70	President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I don't remember if it's like last time. I may have thought that this was something that a messenger had specifically examined in the proposal agreement and might not have to read about it now. I am not necessarily asking about the situation now in the National Church or the mass or solidity - much less for the Generals. I'm simply wondering what I'm thinking. A senator to the National Remuneration Act, which took place just over eight years ago, not ten. Counts 'em out. A senator - I could not understand, but he corrects me if I'm often excusing and I apologize, that's not mean - that it's all right not to take it as a sacred truth of how the nation looks at things? Hv. A senator wrote it somehow so that it would be all right now. Although it had been asked about it, he could see nothing wrong in presenting issues contrary to their conclusions. I don't see anything wrong with it, either, and I'm saying it. But is that not true of all the questions in the 2012 National Bank? Counts 'em out. A senator also applies to the big question of whether a constitution should be proposed on the basis of a recent constitution, i.e. drag the board of directors, and all the other five questions, except for the question of the State Church, which was asked at the same time, equally relevant terms, environmental regulations, resource regulations, etc.? I believe we must be consistent. If we believe that the 2012 national agreement is not the decisive environ ment that we must follow in every way to its conclusion, read about the National Council as it is, it must be the same with all other regulations. Otherwise, we would not be completely consistent.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u71	Madam President. Yes, this is an interesting discussion. I think the point must be that if we have a national law to do something, then of course we should follow it. On the other hand, it is also very bad to maintain national pay and then do nothing with the results for more years. Something has been done with the results of this national payment, e.g. in the time of this government? Has anything been done with these findings? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u72	I was asking about your opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u73	- Yeah, yeah, I know, yeah. Senator. My opinion on this matter is perfectly clear. I believe in this respect the times have simply changed, that's too long. And it in itself can be totally valid about the other factors too. I think it's extremely poetic of government to keep national pay on a particular subject, then do nothing with it, and then always be illustrating it on people for years afterwards. I hope it's not too complicated. A senator realizes that the time line is relevant. Isn't it? That's what I would have thought.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u74	President. I didn't mean to address this case, for I had proved myself to be true verbs simply interested in understanding the nature of the situation. A senator and a first attendant felt that way. But I don't like answers. A senator calls for me to come up here, especially some weird word that it's even too complicated to understand. I have done nothing in mind of this now, year after year, but to ask the same simple question: If it is okay not to follow one question of the six people who were behind in the 2012 National Court, would it also be okay not to follow the five? Is it also true, then, that we do not apply the big question that was under the national law, i.e. of the Council of Control? I have made it clear every time that I have a physical agreement, and I have always stated it year after year that I am merely calling for that position and harmony. I have always described a surprising reminder that both of us can say, "We have to respect the results from 2012, but we have to ignore the results from 2012. ' To me, both can't be released and held. If we keep the 2012 national law and tell them that it is, we must respect and drop all cheap shots on the governments between the years, or the many governments that have ever lived, both the present and the last governments that I am. The first carrier was a party, never mind. If we say that we have to respect it when it comes to one question, I don't feel consistent if we put our name on a matter that simply says, "It's okay to ignore the same national law. " Then we are making our own opinions drumming the conclusions of the National Remuneration. If so, we are choosing what is right for us in our case. I don't like politics, Mr. President. To say that, I support that this proposal continues to be signed and that we will become more consistent with ourselves than I think we are here in Icelandic politics.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u75	Madam President. I must admit that I find it hard to understand why. A senator is trying to come up with these questions. I don't quite understand it, and I don't actually know that at least... The one standing here was having much to say about the results of the 2012 National Remuneration Act. He may be pointing his words at me, but talking to someone else, I don't know. That may be so. The core of what I'm saying is that it's been a long time since this national payment and nothing has been done about it. That's a fact. There's been nothing to do with her, nothing. You can ask yourself: " What is a national agreement that has nothing to do with longevity? Should it bind our senators' hands? Is it a violation of confidence in some matter of offering suggestions that are not exactly in accordance with the results of that national law? Is it not the nature of national law to ask of the people's will at the appointed time and then carry out the nation's will at that time? I think it's the normal order of things. So I just want to say in the end that I don't know what I'm thinking. A senator is trying to reach out, of course, but that is true of himself.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u76	A respectable president. I'm here offering a proposal for a hearing of monuments about the volcanic eruptions of Surtsey and Home Island, which says: ▪ The General concludes, on the basis of the 60 years from the beginning of the Surts Island eruption and 50 years from the beginning of the Home eruption: a. To assign a committee to collect ideas and proposals to memorialize the turning point and to be available no later than 2021 by the end of the year. The Committee shall consult with the institutions and organizations associated with the volcanic eruptions of Surtsey and Home Island. The Commission shall have five members and shall have their commission so that my members of the Parliament shall agree with the appointment of one representative, a greater body of members at the General Assembly would agree on two representatives, the Councilship of the Western Island to be nominated by one representative and one member of the Committee to serve as the chairman. At the beginning of the year 2022, the Commission will meet the final suggestions and introduce them to the prime minister, as well as to further preparation for a monument in 2023. b. To assign Prime Ministers to provide preparatory committees for job positions and to prepare proposals for budgetary contributions for the 2020/2023 A respectable president. Several major events in Iceland's nature during the past century are living with the nation and setting a deep path in the history of the century; from the Rock of 1918 to the sizable avalanches of the west and east below the end of the century. In Iceland, however, few events have caught more attention than the underwater eruption of Surtsey and the landfires in Home Island. First appeared on November 14, 1963, to the year 1967, with no serious consequences. The eruption created about 20 miles [3 km2] an island; a new control point of land and then the economic law. Surtsey is alone in the main part of a volcano island on the UNESCO world mine. It is the youngest and unique field of scientists who monitor the production of groves and land mines on new, unwed land, and in the sea around the island. Surtsey has been the site of important discoveries by scientists and science. The island has also observed the development of coastal erosions and erosions, especially wind erosions. Surtsey has dropped by nearly half, but it slows down slowly. Likely, Surtsey over the centuries, like some of the major islands of the Westlands today, will have become the seastained mobergs and lava by a beautiful floral hat. On the night of January 23, 1973, the volcanic eruption in Home Island broke out, and it lasted six months, with tragic consequences for the settlement, which was correct after vigorous countermotive operations and a variety of structural functions. At the beginning of the Home Island soda, two miles [4 km] of soda burst through the eastmost part of the island, nearly in the tundra of the settlement. The sprunk just ended up in the ocean of all the north. Gradually, the soda power was isolated at its center and more than 200 ms of high gum and lava, Eldfell. Home Island was 11.2 miles (2.2 km) in the area, but after it was completed, it was 13.44 km2. The island had some 5,000 inhabitants and had to remove most of them as soon as possible. The great battle between rescue workers and the town authorities brought world attention. Its history and experience of conflicts with lava and the fall of vegetation are remarkable, especially the history of the remarkable lava. Similarly, cleansing and restoration are of a unique place in history. The experiences of this period must not be forgotten. By 223, it will be 60 years from the Surts Island eruption and 50 years from the Home Islands eruption. While there are still people alive who well recall these events, the movers consider it important that this milestone be commemorated in Western islands as well as the history of the matches and society. Transporters stress that the preparatory committee will be allowed space to collect ideas and suggestions that rhyme with events and encourage people to visit the Western Islands in order to experience the history of society, and nature in the latter part of the 20th century. It is necessary for the Commission to have sufficient time for preparation, consultation and work. It is assumed that proposals should be made at the end of 2021 and that final suggestions will be developed at the beginning of 2022 and introduced as Prime Minister. It is hoped that volcanic eruptions will remain permanent in the Western Islands, a well - known landmark and a reminder of events that took place and developed the community's history. A respectable president. To the transporters of this proposal, which is beside me. Councilmen Páll Magnússon, Vilhjálmur Árnason, Ari Trausti Guði Guðmundsson, Birgir Þórarinsson, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Ginsdótir, and Karl Gauti Einar Hjaltason, suggest that the case be referred to why. A top-of-the-art Education Committee and a subsequent commission.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u77	Madam President. I'm not going to say anything about this matter. But because I have the issue as one of the people doing this, I'd like to say a few words related first, because most of the South American Parliaments are involved, as we say. It's a bit of a parapolitic plea, if we put it that way. It has been said that the important thing about Surtsey, who is, yes, a world-registered registration, and the scientific achievements there have been. But when it comes to the soda on Home Island, I think that what is going to stand up from perhaps one of the longest is the memories associated with this eruption because it was going to affect many thousands of people. Of course, many of these people are still very active, but they will change with time, and this will be an event in Iceland that will be unique in many ways. That is why it is good to be reminded of him in some way. Of course, there are differing opinions on monuments. If the monument is to be built, however it will now be, or whatever it will look like, or where it will be located, then it must be connected to the Eldheim, a museum exhibit in the Western Islands that has drawn much attention. If you did well, I think it's done well but would be worse if you were sitting at home.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u78	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a synonym proposal to increase democracy and transparency in pension funds, and I will do so on behalf of the entire group of Falcon Congress of the people. According to the proposal, the General concluded to hide financial and economic ministers from presenting a law bill by the end of 2021 which aims to increase democracy and transparency in pensions. The bill hides. in combination with provisions that ensure that: a. Treasurers have the highest authority in the affairs of pensions, including those in the U.S.A. that the management of pension funds is offered for social meetings in accordance with the approval of the funds and the voting rights of a member of the club at a social meeting after the omission, and the due fees of funds, according to further legal requirements in the approved funds, b. The management of pension funds is elected each year at the annual meeting of funds, c. Directors and executives in pension funds must not own a property or do business for their own accounts in companies that share the pension fund or in those companies that make investments on behalf of the pension fund, These are the financial and confidentiality records of the management and head of the Department of Pension, The UN is monitoring whether the services of the management board and the head of the Pension Fund are compatible with the rules of their work. Then I'm going to go to the synopsis with the synopsis. This case was previously presented in 149. I don't really understand it, Mr. Honorable President, what's so bad about increasing transparency and democracy in pension funds? What is bad about giving the funds owners the opportunity to make decisions about their business? It's a complete mystery to me. By this proposal, the General Council agrees to hide financial and economic ministers, as stated earlier, to lay before the Council a bill for a law that has the objective of increasing democracy and transparency in pensions. It is suggested that the bill includes clear regulations that loyal funds increase power in the affairs of the pension fund, that their management have the clear mandate of funds, that there are no odds of government and executive interests in the interest of pensions and funds, and increased monitoring of interest logs to prevent potential conflict. It is known and known that individuals have taken advantage of being in the highest positions of this huge state of our pension system and have actually enriched themselves by being able to sit at both sides of the table, having put investors for billions of dollars on top of a particular business, and then bought themselves in the newly investing businesses. But here it is to prevent such conflict of interest, which I now call a single name almost insider trading. In fact, this is just a matter of making sure that there is no disagreement. After the contracts in the spring of 1969, the management of the pension fund in general has been appointed to half of the sector's income-employers and the trade union, but without the arrival of the general funds, which, however, is accompanied by a payeror, to pay the pension fund of that profession or group of professions. Rewarders have always appointed representatives in the management of pension funds to have historical explanations and were founded at the beginning of the fine - called master's responsibility. A great change has been made in master's responsibilities and advancement in general. The forwarding responsibilities are largely transferred to public parties and are the main source of weight on the rural areas, with no share in the state. For example, whether they have retired because of age or because of disability, some think that a payer would have a responsibility to persuade former employees, as it was in the past. Thus, the ancient master's responsibilities have moved to the government's insurance agency, the tax system (child and interest), pensions, mortgages, and community service. Therefore, there is no longer the same reason why the payers are in the management of pension funds. It just has nothing to do with it. At that time, funds companies have a lot of money to care for, and it seems reasonable that cashmates are allowed directly to participate in the activities and policies of pensions through the participation and election of the annual meetings. In modern society of the 21st century, where it is called after all at tables, where there is supposed to be transparency and participation and democracy in a justice - based community that teaches itself to a progressive civilization, it is really a mistake if the trustees of the funds are not considered fit for decision making and building up them rather than professional drivers. In recent years it has been shown that the public is not pleased with a dominant system in which the public is not always committed to the operation of pensions which he is bound by law to pay, as I have said before. It is important, therefore, to move the power back to the cashmate and set clear rules for it. Is it suggested that in the bill of what will be submitted to the Council be included. It is required that the management of pension funds be offered for social meetings in accordance with the approval of the funds and the voting rights of a member of the club at a social meeting follow-up of the appeals and the equivalent of their dues, according to further legal requirements in the approved funds. It is reasonable, though, that a body member can provide others with a written commission to vote for social meetings. In this way, the movers have the right to establish a law that ensures that the election is elected each year. It is necessary to prevent interest errors by providing clear guidelines for the administrations not to have a ownership share, as I once did, or to do business for their own accounts in companies for which the pension fund is involved or is involved. At the same time, it is important to ensure that official monitoring is in the interest of the management and head of the head of pension funds so that action can be taken in the event of a conflict of interest. It is therefore suggested that in the bill they will be assigned to keep a record of the financial and confidential work of the management board and the head of the pension funds as well as to monitor their interest and confidentiality in the interests of pensions and funds. A respectable president. So many words were in the report and in this council resolution, but it's really in the spirit of the 21st century and the policies that have taken place in our community where we want at least to are allowed to take part and shape a course in what we obviously have, according to the nature of the matter. It's weird, isn't it? This proposal calls e.g. On it. We want more transparency in the management of Pension Funds and further democracy, and out of it, this synopsis is going. I really hope it's better than the last two legislatures.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u79	A respectable president. We're here on a proposal for a Synod to reason on the increase in democracy and transparency in the Pension Funds, the people's group's proposal, I think, the demand for those who have and pay in the pension fund, the demand they've made for a long time, that they only have the authority to control the funds. It's kind of strange that it's still this system, that those who pay for the legal product of property savings were remembered as to how they are handled. We have a warning example. We can take the crash as an example, what happened to the pension fund in the collapse. Today's prices no doubt lost well at another billion dollars. I would say that today's situation is dangerous in many ways because so much money gathers into the fund and they are basically owning in all the companies that have some value in the country. As a result, they are buying in themselves, and as a result, they are not just at one another's table but all around the table, in that these funds have extraordinary power for employers. The funds include individuals who have power and invest at the same time even in companies they own. It is kind of crazy that it is going to be tolerated to this day. There has also been another factor in the fact that professional drivers have all this control of the pension fund, that is, their gigant business, which has certainly come well on the second or even thirds of billions. There's extraordinary payoffs there, and those who have and pay on them have nothing to do with how this works, how many control it, how it works, how it works, what it doesn't have to do with what it does. It's an amazing system built up. Another one of these things, showing us black and white how the system works or doesn't work, is the FDA. The F.O. was a special institution back then. It was before a crash, and somehow the FDA didn't manage to keep the banks, not the pensions, not insurance companies or anything, but seemed to be just an observer. What was done with the SEC? Where is it today? Yeah, I think it's just a drawer in the Secret Bank. The other day, I was amazed and said out loud that the FDA had looked up from the drawer. All of a sudden, it damages some talk about electrical change, or bitcoin. The F.O. looked at it and said that there were no rules and disappeared into the drawer again, instead of sending a warning to the council that there was some money that would not be observed. I think at the same time as professional drivers get out of the pension fund, we're gonna have to go up to the F.O.A. The F.A. needs and should be observed, especially now when it comes to selling banks. What are you talking about selling the banks? Yeah, to the pension fund. Is this what we check from the last bank sale? There's a lot to be careful about, but I think it would be a national recommendation for this proposal to pass through the council. But, unfortunately, I don't think there's any hope because the four party seems to have already made sure that the system is spent by any means available. It does not seem to matter which government has recently established. The system is protected, and everything must remain unchanged. On the move, certain kings will be allowed to manage the pension fund, to make a living, and to have a pay policy that suits them, to buy in their suitable companies. But if it comes so simple that the pension fund will be used in an investment to build an apartment for members, then everything will go mad. It is said that it is far from the purpose of the pension fund to build for those who have them so that they can have a home and that they don't have to be on rent or in worse places. No, it's not because they are supposed to be making money. And what does that mean? Yes, that means they need 3.5% of fruitage. What does that mean? Yes, a check for inflation, a check for interest rates, and other causes of inflation. We have the highest cost of shopping in the North countries at least, even in Europe, but Covid has forced it down to this day. But it will not be any different when Covid is passed and there will be no change. I ask: What would that prove to be the firms of professional society that can be in control and be in control of these funds without even paying off a dollar for themselves, but only because they pay the wage and, as a result, have to pay off the legalized, the retailer? What evidence is there that they are to have full authority? They say they don't have all the power. They only have six to six. But what does that mean? Six to six means that if the labor movement is going to try out with little effort, it's going to fall apart. That's what it's been like, and that's what it's been like now, because it's what's in charge of these funds. They are in control and have been. I hope that their reign is nearing its end and that this bill will be fulfilled and that we will see to a brighter time and will see to it that those who own it get the right to vote, get control of it. I am absolutely convinced that there will be a much better outcome for both those who own it and for the rest of the economy. At the same time, I hope that the progress we recommended today will be made by tax-countment subsidies and we'll see to it that things are fixed. Then we're fine.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u80	A respectable president. I recommend here again for a proposal to sidetrack the 70-year-old age limitation of law No. 70/1996, on the rights and duties of the workers of the state. The movers with me are why. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Bjöl Leví Gunnarsson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjándótir, Helga Helgadóttir Helgaadóttir and Kristinsson Irnsson. The conclusion is, by permission of the President: The General concluded to hide financial and economic ministers, in agreement with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Children's Affairs, to initiate a discussion with the official staff organization on the violation of the law that limits the work of public employees at 70 years of age. The goal of the Parliamentary arrangement is to allow public employees to remain in their jobs after the age of 70 if they want to and trust in them. I made this suggestion to the last legislature, and it went to the Economic and Business Committee and received reviews, including From BSRB and older citizens' national relations. BSRB welcomed the proposal and declared herself ready to share in the work it proclaims. They also stressed and, with us, agreed to contact the unions of public employees and that it was only allowed to continue at the age of 70 but not without obligation. For up to two years, reference was made in the BSRB collective labour agreement to extend recruitment by employees who have reached 70 years of age. However, government personnel do not have the same potential as government workers in rural areas in order to work in 70 C.E. At that time, it was noted that government employees, after their 70 - year - old, would not receive pensions. The need for a reevaluation of retirement due to age, too, was observed by the older citizen's national community. in view of the fact that life span had increased greatly over the past few decades. And I agree with their review that the so - called 70 - year rule is out - of - date, and it is inconsistencies with human rights. The Law on State Rights and Duty, No. 70/1996 is the rule that government employees should be suspended at 70 years of age. It also states that a official should provide a solution from the next month to the age of 70 and also from those who are temporarily appointed. It also states that the employee should always be employed, and at the next month's convention, after he reaches 70 years. In a paper with that bill, i.e. has been given in 1996 no particular reason to maintain the age limit being found in 1 mg. 13th par. track No. 38/1954, on the rights and responsibilities of the government. In a series of articles with a bill that became the law of 1954, including the U.S.A. in comments on 13. that there is a difference of opinion as to whether the age should be the age of public employees and the age for which to live. Are there the evidence in the ratings that the age limit is usually no longer valid employees, that they rarely accept it themselves, and that they would have to give young men the opportunity to get to work. So many of them were words in our old songs. According to Labour Code, No. 86/2018, a direct or indirect difference based on age, is prohibited when it comes to the availability of employment and, therefore, the recruitment and progress of the job. There is, however, an exception in parsity 12. The law says that different treatments due to age are not considered to be against the law to be a perennial argument devoted to legitimate goals, including employment policies or other occupational goals, as such actions will not go beyond those required to achieve the target. In a paper with a bill that became the law of 2018, it says, as well as a bill. About 12. that it be assumed that a special retirement age is the purpose of achieving a legitimate goal, such as in the light of public employment policies. Transporters point out that quality of life and circumstances have changed greatly since the laws on the rights and duties of the Kingdom. The increased life expectancy and the improved health of people have enabled them to serve longer than they once did. The right to make public employment policy reflects the change and give it to those who want to work longer and have health to that possibility. In support of this, in some cases employees of the public institutions continue to work for those who work after the end of their work at 70 years of age. At the same time, the official loss of knowledge may be to the general labour market, where similar dates are not found. This proposal is not intended to encourage public employees to prolong or pressure their career, and it is important that the viewpoint of representatives of the public employees be made when the rules for them are changed. Therefore, the movers stress that the decommissionment of the age restrictions in cooperation with public employees' organisations and stress the importance of the careful implementation of the deduction process and reconciliation. As we have seen, the world is a bit different, and fortunately people live much longer than when these laws were set in their time and important things to take into account, not necessarily according to age, but primarily by what we want to do and whether we have health and ability to do it or not. I think that a lot of knowledge is available from older people who are reaching 70 or who are now 70 years old but who have really been forced to quit. They have had a lot of work and a desire to work, but they have not been able to do it in the field it has worked, and I think it's very depressing. I really hope that the proposal succeeds. She was well signed by the management committee at the last assembly, and I believe that there will be no reason for anything other than that this group will be started and the case will be resolved.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u81	Madam President. I'm not going to extend this discussion much, but I thought it'd be right to mention that for some reason I haven't been transferred to this Senate document as a associate but is certainly in agreement with this case. This is totally consistent with what I and a lot of other senators have been speaking for here at the council for the past eight years. Like what? paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir came in here, it's actually human rights. As with age alone, it is being ensured that the workforce is not being pushed out of the business market. So this is a case with a very clear link to another matter that is in here, about date. It is a matter of dating that simply because someone has reached a certain age, he may not be able to do his job. Inadequateness to do a job is much more likely to relate to some performance factors, health factors than at any particular age. Madam President. As I said, I'm not going to extend this discussion, but I thought it was important that these views be developed and my support for this matter. But as Madam President knows, I must no longer agree, so I declare support for the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u82	Madam President. I hereby recommend a synonym that Iceland become a member of the United Nations Convention to ban nuclear weapons. My deputies to the council odor proposal have a problem. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttar son of Proppé, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson and Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son. The proposal itself is short, but it sounds so, with President's permission: ▪ The General concluded to hide the government for Iceland to sign and validate a nuclear ban approved at the United Nations Conference in New York, July 7, 2017. This will be the fifth time I make this suggestion. However, the change has taken place since the last time I made this statement that the contract was valid on January 22 of the past. That happened when 90 days had passed since the world's 50th district convention had validated the agreement. So today it is an international agreement that is valid for international law. The result of the contract is that in 2016 the number of nuclear-free countries decided to try a new approach in the battle against these terrible weapons. The ICAN organization has been primarily among the equals, and Nobel's Peace Nóbel was actually won in 2017 for its struggle. As explained in the logic of the Norwegian Nobel Committee, the organization played a major role in bringing together the nations of the world and preparing for this vital covenant. There are about a fifth hundred international peace groups and members of the ICAN organisations. However, we review some of the basics of the world's nuclear arms situation. Nine countries, defined as nuclear or nuclear powers, have more than 13,000 nuclear weapons or bombs. The older disarming agreements assume that, in time, the nuclear powers will shrink their weapons and work on the elimination of the weapons. Yet, they have not worked out according to expectations. On the contrary, individual countries, including the NATO military alliance, have had nuclear weapons as part of their military policy. Sadly, several important contracts that have been like a guard on the way to nuclear disarmament have not been followed and have even been dismissed. That's what makes this deal even more important. True, nuclear bombs have declined since most of them. But what has happened is that they have grown, and they have become more perfect, so that their bomb power has increased dramatically. Yet, the terrible nuclear devices that have been exposed to the world and experienced by them are small in comparison with at least Some of the weapons now being developed. In fact, most nuclear powers are also giving high - speed, high - volume productions for the development of new and more advanced weapons and the idea that such weapons, sometimes known as rhythmic nuclear weapons, can be used in general warfare, are rarely discussed with increasing seriousness, at least in some credits. So we are, in real life, the threat of nuclear threat is growing again. At times, the view that this contract must be discussed is that it must still be born, since the world's nuclear powers have been refused to come to it. However, this is a misunderstanding. Indeed, the model of this covenant is derived from other disarmament treaties, such as the United Nations landmine, the prohibition of cluster bombs, and the prohibition of chemical weapons. In the case of these agreements, the states and groups of states that did not have such weapons were living that dragged the wagon and moved against such international bans in pure opposition to the governments that had the weapons. In all cases, however, the appearance of the international ban has resulted in the elimination of weapons and the use and production of them as morally undefeated. This will also happen regarding the nuclear weapons. Madam President. I noted that a month ago, when a certain time had passed since the 50th of the state had completed it at its National Assembly, the treaty to ban nuclear weapons became valid. Since then, four more countries have joined us. More than 30 more countries have signed the treaty but will take the second step in the process and have validated it. A growing proportion of the members of the United Nations were in covenant with the United Nations. A lot more things I say, but not all the kingdoms. A group of countries with nuclear weapons to live and its members have opposed the agreement, including the members of the military alliance NATO. To date, it has been difficult to break this opposition from NATO against the covenant. Yet there are several countries in our part of the world that are his people, and I want to name them. There are Irish, Austria, and Maltese, as well as Liechtenstein, San Marino, and Vatican. V.E.G. President. In connection with the implementation of the contract to ban nuclear weapons, European partner ICAN was introduced in Iceland, which includes Iceland's Human Rights Office and the Red Cross, the results of their surveys in several countries. For Iceland, the main outcome is 86% of the Icelanders who claimed to support Iceland became a member of the Treaty to ban nuclear weapons, but only 3% were opposed. Right about 10% said he wasn't sure. Now someone might wonder, " Is this great support clarified because the common people know little about the treaty to ban nuclear weapons and do not realize that its approval might have any consequences? ' However, to address such speculation, after they had given up their position on whether they wanted us to be members of the agreement, the question was, Would Iceland be among the first members of the NATO to sign the treaty, although such would require that the U.S. government use some kind of pressure? The results of this question are of particular interest, for they showed that in some people, in particular the supporters of some classes, who had supported Iceland, a party was maintained as support continues, but in others it slightly decreased, particularly as the situation grew. However, for the members of the Independence Party, where opposition was the highest, 57% of the candidates wanted to become members of the agreement. Thus, it is an important part of the country that Iceland becomes a member of the Convention to ban nuclear weapons. So I have reason to believe that support for this matter is great, that is clearly public, and I think the attitude here at the council could be consistent with that. I would also like to remind you that 25 members of Congress have signed a vow or a promise to work on the ban of nuclear weapons. You can find out who these senators are on the ICAN website. Madam President. Of course, Iceland should be a party at such a deal. It doesn't mean anything to say on days that we are a peace - loving and warless nation, but then we don't do our part when it comes to banning the most notorious weapons ever invented. With these words, I want to finish my speech. I suggest that this discussion be referred to. The Foreign Affairs Committee and the Foreign Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u83	President. It is not the smoker who decides whether he will smoke at the Bar Mitzvah or not. It's not the sports car's owner who decides to drive at 200 miles an hour at a tunnel. It is not the owner of the shotgun that determines whether he will carry it loaded and dangerous through the streets of the city or on the streets of the land. And it should not be the nuclear power that determines whether they have weapons that can destroy all life on earth and on earth itself. It's very simple. This is a matter that affects all of us, and no one with good conscience can claim to be opposed to banning tools whose only purpose is to destroy all life on earth. Iceland is supposed to be on the road to combat nuclear weapons. I wish the government of Iceland would take the case to heart and make it a step to sign and establish this agreement as suggested here. I wish we weren't members of a military alliance, but unfortunately, there are other categories than who I am and who I am. Transporters belong, not on that view. Surely all of us living on top of the world in the fragile northern environment must be able to agree to take these necessary steps to ensure safety for all of us here on earth. One is the threat of the weapons itself. One is the carbon chain produced by their production and existence, their pollution. One cannot even speak of the need to combat climate and disaster without opposing military structure and much less the existence of nuclear weapons. President. I really hope I don't need such suggestions in the future. I sincerely hope that the government can take the steps that must take to guide us in these matters, to fight deadly weapons that can destroy all lives. This should not be particularly complicated. I encourage the government to step forward and sign the contract. If not, we have this suggestion here, which can be used in the traditional way, and I encourage you. A general assembly to take that step if necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u84	Madam President. I recommend here for a bill to correct the change of earth law, No. 81/2004, with later changes (parallel of rural society). Transporters, along with the people here, are a reason. Councilmen Anna Kolbrún of the Year's Árnadóttir, Bergþór Páll, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, Ólafur Ísleifsson, Sigmundur Sigurður Gunnlaugsson, and Jónsson. In 1st. Says: "After the 27th C.E. The law's coming up with a new article, 27. a, as well as a heading, as follows: It's your country partner's prenuptial right. A rural society has a premium of land and other property within the community that these laws apply to and intended to sell or permanently in other ways if the planned use is not in accordance with the main organisation or community is required to obtain control over such property to use for public activities of rural society or common uses for the inhabitants of a community. Two. says: "After the words, ◯27. (See footnote.) ........ Twenty-nine. and 1st. 30. g. The law comes, and the 27th. a. In the 3rd. states: This law already comes into effect. Madam President. Next time, I'm going to step back to a paper with the bill. The bill suggests that the premium of rural law will be reassigned to react to the changes that have taken place on land in the recent stages. The objective is to ensure that rural society has knowledge of the proposed land sales within its domain, and this is considered to be an advantage for both sides, i.e. The buyer of the earth and municipal society has purchased, e.g. The purpose of using which is in opposition to the ideas and plans of a local community to build up in the area. Beginning in 2004, the law on the premarital rights of society was taken away with the sentences of new earth layers, No. 81/2004, the trend has been that money - bearing persons, often foreigns, have purchased a number of soils with their own benets. In many cases, such purchases have been carried out through foreign societies, making the final holding of property unclear as well as the intended use of the earth. Dissatisfaction has been the result of this development, and it has been called according to government response in this regard. As a result of the activation of rural rights, communities will be able to study the proposed use of the commercial buyer of the planet and how it conforms to the main community structure in which the future community's policy takes place. Based on organizational legislation, the main planning program for a specific rural society is to establish a rural policy on land use, rural development, structural development, patterns of transport and services, and the environment of the rural community. If it turns out that plans to use are out of harmony with the main structure, the local society can enter the purchase as a law for the bill. In addition, the premium is suggested to be effective if a rural society is needed to obtain authority over property for its public work or for common use for the inhabitants of the community. With the bill, the movers suggest that rural communities will be assured of access to information on the proposed earth plan and thereby the opportunity to respond under the direction of local interests. Madam President. Next, I'm going to go to the historical show when it comes to the premarital rights mentioned here. According to the Directive of June 18, 1723, there have been laws on wedding rights in the United States since 123 C.E. It included the terms of the purchase rights of an resident living on earth. According to law No. However, 30/1905, on the prerogative rights of the rest of the workers, reached all the candidates regardless of whether they had a lifetime camp or not. The rules of premarital rights also included those of the crew who had quit their bargaining contracts and candidates who had been legally laid off on sale if the store was not completed. With law No. 30/1905, rural communities also received prenuptial rights for the right and uninhabited areas to be used for the home of the summer. With law No. 40/1919 later, rural communities received prenuptials, which held their premarital rights with the same conditions as before. Then it had the law No. 16/1926, and with No. 40/199, that there were exceptions to the law on premarital rights, but according to the rules, if the landlord sold his child's land, the ideal child, the foster child, a brother, a sister, or a parent. Track No. 40/1919 were then reinvented and then changed by law No. 55/1926. But by law No. 40/118, on land purchase, the changes in the terms of premarital rights were made that the candidate should only premium if he had been shopping for three years or longer before sales began, but otherwise the bargain was to be prepared after a community. The same exceptions remained valid for the sale of family members. With law No. 65/1976 was authorized to get married before a community if they had lived ten years or more and the same exceptions as previously made for close relatives but added that those regulations also apply to marriage mates and grandchildren. Moreover, it was condition that the one preparing must prepare the earth for preparation and use. The rules for the premarital rights of a member of the country are supported by the above laws that are being used to prevent land qualified for farming in the hands of so - called geologists or other people who do not intend to take them to farms and farms otherwise, regardless of whether or what disorder it may bring to the community. Madam President. I've been tracking here only historical regulations on premiums in the earth. From the year 1723 C.E. onward, this arrangement has a long history. This shows that this law has always been considered important. The 2004 law, therefore, must be regarded as something special. I'll find out a little more afterwards. But that was with the law No. 81/2004, which this law had been taken out in Iceland since 1723. The EFTA Office made some comments on the laws of the earth, No. 65/196, and considered them to violate the EEA Convention. These comments were primarily directed to the 6th floor. The law to agree with both rural and terrestrial organizations, as mentioned, would require that land and other property be allowed to be set aside as legalized, that the government could bind its consent to certain conditions for dwelling, as specified in Article 11. the law that citizens who want to buy land in Iceland and use agriculture need to have worked with agriculture for two years here unless agrienvironmental ministers provide special access, and then 30 grams. The law on the prenuptial rights of a community and the State's Earth Fund. A letter to the European Commission on July 4, 2001, suggests that the above laws of the earth, No. 65/1976, break against 40. g. The EEA Convention. To meet that comment at the time, it was a way of having a community authority to use premarital rights was tied to certain conditions in terms of the need for new premarital rights to land, land, or other countries that should be sold to use for rural activities or for common use for the inhabitants of the community. Comments were not made on this change, and it could be said that it was done well. The work involved was primarily to ensure that this law does not violate the EEA Convention. As I say, such comments were not made, so that work worked well. So it was in the bill to the ground layer in 2004, as I mentioned. However, this process occurs in the process that is then taken out by the Committee, which is why the law is not in the law today. It is quite clear, though, that the committee's opinion did not stand to take it out. It was suggested that the premium law would remain in law. The committee does not argue why, as it were, it takes it on its final scale. But as I mentioned before, Madam President, there goes a lot of work to ensure that the directive is not in opposition to the EEA agreement. One would have intended that this would most naturally remain in the bill and that it would be passed as a law that this law would remain inside, i.e. the premium law. But as I've traced it, it goes far beyond that. It takes out the law for some reason, and doesn't argue with it, which is a little special. As a result, the law is not in the law today and was removed in 2004 after being in the law since 1723. In the bill of the above recommendations, this provision is applied and added, as stated earlier, that a rural society can take advantage of prenuptially conform to the planet's buyer's not a major community structure. This is added to the main organization, and it has to be considered to fit in with that requirement. The common interests of the people, as the law says, and I traced them here at the outset, refer to the interests of many and even more of the population of the community. It will be considered that it is not expected that the premium could be taken according to this requirement in order to deliver certain individuals or a narrow group of individuals to be used by that purpose. It's not in the spirit of this bill. Madam President. I'm not going to state whether our rural society has financial resources to enter into it, if it's necessary. There is another discussion that would then be held in another area. This law is primarily thought that the rural communities will know about these matters within their own ranks. It's important. Although rural society has resources according to its design and building laws in the practical use of the earth, it must be considered important that they have knowledge of the proposed sales of earth within their ranks, as such factors are considered to be the benefit of both parties, buyers of the earth and of the community. In addition, I think this law could make more peace with this important group of subjects, simply because the rural communities are well informed, and the people of the community are also enlightened, and the innovation of the earth will hopefully conform to the ideas proposed by the rural society and be organized. I've traced the main item of this bill, Madam President. It should be remembered that this premium law was very long under law, from 123, so I mention it again, and until 2004. Then it seems that it has been taken out on the last record with no reason, which is a little special, and that it really was not the intention of the committee to do so. That is how I leave it after a fairly thorough review of that committee view. But I really hope that this case will be discussed in the Committee, and it will also review the treatment that was given to the committee at its time when this was changed in 2004. I think it's important for the members of the committee to learn about it. Madam President. To say this, I suggest that the case be referred to. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-23-58.u85	Madam President. I say here for the bill -- and I hope the President forgives me for the softness - what I've sometimes called a sudden divorce. It is about that in certain cases, people will be authorized to divorce without the exception of separation. The situation today is that according to a silent marriage law, people are separated from their table and bed for six months before they have an approved legal divorce by a businessman. Exceptions, however, are more common. In the case of adultery, or if another marriage mate is exposed to assault or sexual abuse, the other or the child may be bitten. To test this law, there must be proof, either in the form of confession or in the form of sound evidence. I'm going to let me say, Madam President, that I refuse to believe that the 55% of the marriages which are directly divorced because someone else is confessing adultery or violence are real examples of adultery or violence. The situation is just that when a couple decide to understand that the fuel in a relationship is long gone and often people just want to get out of the relationship as soon as possible, not necessarily because of something special, but just because the relationship is over. At times, it may be easier to resort to confession that has not occurred, with no consequences of confessing, such as adultery. I received confirmation from a number of people who had contacted me last time when I recommended this case, which had just gone through confessions that had not been committed to escape a relationship that was simply over, or a relationship that was no longer a basis for. The most important example is, as was mentioned in a discussion of the matter last time it was submitted, when people come out of the closet, e.g. and the partner of the individual is no longer consistent with sexual orientation. Today, there is no law to help people get out of marriage sooner than after the six - month sentence in being separated from their table and bed. In comparison, when people marry, we can look at the process. There is nothing to do but bring in witnesses to the businessman who knows marriage conditions, knows whether people are old enough, whether they are anything else in marriage, just whether they meet the requirements for marriage. For example, when it is a well - arranged county survey may take a week, and there can be time for a person to give up. So it takes about a week for legalization at the beginning of a marriage that the lawgiver has extended to six months at its end. This also results in unnecessary management of the county bodies. If people come and get a break and divorce and then they have to come back six months later, just as determined to stop being married, a businessman has had to deal twice with cases that, if this bill is legal, the county would just have to deal with once. However, there is an extremely narrow source that we recommend in the bill. First, it is based on that a husband and wife agree to seek legal divorce and second, that either they have neither shared possessions nor children under 18 years of age or that they have agreed on an order for custody of children and other divorce conditions. So they say, if people agree, and have divided up, and come to the county and say that they want to understand, they should be granted permission to divorce without the exception of separation to the table and to the bed. The reviews on the subject at the latest when this was discussed point to what we in this hall all know, that marriage laws need to be revised to so many aspects. The change so far is just a little bit of what needs to be done. This was the case, for example. Pointed out, however, that the right to divorce would be even more appropriate when another marriage partner does not want to divorce. For example, in Stepaver's work people have found that a doer of violence can use the narrow legal authority of marriage law in an attempt to prolong a process of divorce and to use it in practice as an ongoing form of violence to endure. There's obviously something that needs to be handled, but this bill, which has a tighter focus, is not addressed. Then the authority of the children in his review shows the importance of better living for the children of divorce because, while law divorce marks the end of marriage, it marks the beginning of the eternal cooperation of parents in raising children in two households. The situation of these children needs to be strengthened and one of the things needed to strengthen it is simply to promote the county office so that they can work more quickly and better, so that they can help to communicate more with each other in the divorce process. These comments presented at the 148th legislature want me to put my heart into it, and I hope that someone will take up the subject, more likely in the Ministry than here at the council, because these are larger issues and more complex solutions that include more legal classes than just marriage laws. But here we have a bill to correct marital law, where marriage mates agree to understand, and in that case, it is quite simple: Do we not trust adults to know for themselves whether they want to stop associating or not? I say, "Let's trust it."
