ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u1	Mr. President. At the end of last year, the bill for government officials to work to 73 years ago was referred to by the government against the promise that it would appear here at the council by the last Christmas. It was not up to us. So I have reexamined this bill, asking the president to ask that this matter be taken on the program with variations. Although it may show us the consequences of it, because it is now being negotiated for a second or fourth time during this election period, how futile it is to negotiate the end of the council, and then to negotiate the outcome of matters if the proposed I wish this matter, Mr. President, that state workers may be working to 73 years of age, shall be taken on the program with disproportionateness and to be referred to as committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u2	In view of the development of the last days, the president should consider that it will be until July.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u3	A respectable president. In the beginning, I'd like to see the President after a report on the cervical trash that was to be distributed yesterday but who's been waiting for 12 weeks, I think, or something like that. She was supposed to be here yesterday, and there's no questions about her. I wondered where the report is.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u4	The president received the message that the reporting was only too optimistic. A minister allowed the president to inform us about this because the following testing was followed and the report was metabolised. It is intended that you should take it only for two days. On the basis of the message the first waiting report was given, it's about days, i.e. whether the report comes today or tomorrow or something like that. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u5	Mr. President. I thank a well-founded president about taking this case on the agenda, and if that happens in July, there's nothing wrong with us. The night is enough, the ghost said. We have plenty of time to do the work we want to do. I say again that the end of last year's case must be made men think once again about the end of the contract, i.e. richness is not what was laid up. I'm the highest. A president to take this matter into consideration. I don't believe that there will be so much debate or debate over the possibility of holding a job for Congress. Therefore, I ask for it kindly and amass the fact that this matter will be considered in an unusual way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u6	A respectable president. It has become a boring theme if it is so that when it comes to the government, it simply means that they die their Lord. Of course, when matters are referred to by the government, the government must win them and submit them again. So I'm gonna have to sign a lawsuit. A senator who spoke before and asked for his case to be arranged. But they are more of the cases the government has reportedly intended to finish and has not finished. This has been the excuse for referring matters either to the government or even bringing them down here in the Senate Hall. A respectable president. It's not working. At least the government has to do what she says she will do when it comes to matters referred to them or when they are put here on the grounds that they must work better for that government. She will then have to stick to what she claims.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u7	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a greater portion of the budget of a bill for financial support by 2021. By the end of April, the government introduced further economics for the pandemic. This is the fourth pack of measures mentioned earlier in March, April, and November. This year's budget was funded in several of the budgets of the year and in the budgets of the year. The last presented action was to extend and implement another tens of economic operations in order to meet the consequences of the epidemic. For the most part, these are measures and suggestions related to the release of other law-employers and/or regulations and the majority of the items provide a table with a language number of bills for further information. Almost all of the bill's spending proposals are explained by what is attributed to the pandemic and are expected to meet its economic and social consequences. The overall budget of the bill is 14,550 million. K. There are 12,180 million of them. K. depending on either law or regulations change. The regulations needed by the bill may already be published. That's how they want to raise the budget by 14,550 million. K. Of these, 13 billion can be found. which are linked to the pandemic and are mainly due to the procedure pack. Added to 570 billion. K. which is attributable to the consequences of the epidemic and, at last, 1 billion will be expected. a donation due to an increase in daily nursing expenses during the year. The most special proposals are about 4.4 billion. contributions from recruitment management, but companies are now able to be funded by reimbursement of an employee in a reduced labour rate. The second largest road is 4.3 billion bucks. contributions from the project start jobs, which aim to create some seven thousand temporary jobs for long - term unworkers and students. This suggests about 1.6 billion dollars. contribution due to the payment of child-impliment of $30,000. for every child. The only proposal not directly linked to the pandemic is a 1 billion. to increase the daily expenses of nursing homes. Suggested by some 600 million. K. to a mental - health disorder that involves several issues, including High school and college. A decision made last year about the so - called travel process is renewed this year and submitted to 750 billion. K. a warrant for that purpose. The other proposals of the bill are less likely to be weighed and referred to the bill's report for their explanation. These suggestions involve an impact on the outlook of the year, but in the budget of the year, 326.1 billion were expected. It is now assumed that, according to assessment and despite the expansive effects of new measures, 21.3 billion, taking into account the reassessment of other joints and the valuation effects of specialisation, the charge will be 328 billion, or 10.5% of gross domestic product, within the defined financial policy. Of course, there is still some uncertainty about evolution within the year, but much of it shows that the general reserve is about 1.7% of the budget, or 20.3 billion dollars. and is more than legal 1% proportion in order to address the uncertainty and funding of unexpected spendings for Covid-19 as well as the spending of reimbursement due to changes in the shift work programme following abbreviated work week. The committee considers the work of the Committee, and time is being used to further research and call for explanations and reasoning support beyond what is stated in a detailed report with the bill. In connection with the newly released financial program for the 20222/226, the Committee discussed a fairly detailed matter of nursing homes. A greater part of this committee includes a recent report on domestic survival based on the analysis of 2020 and the first half of 2020. The report noted that in recent years many of the homes have been fired. In 2019 the combined tail of those who were fired by loss was just under a billion years. There is, however, a lack of opinion in the numbers where contributions from rural society are listed as earnings of homes, as well as annual budgets. In 2019 alone, only 13% of households reached a positive runoff without the favors some of them receive from rural society. It is still too much between interpretation and diagnosis of nursing procedures. In particular, adequate analysis at different cost between households is not available. The Ministry of Health has informed the committee of a number of factors that need to be done better, such as the provision of housing costs and how it falls to the annual budget. According to the report, households's medical and aid costs have increased by 28% over three years, which is far beyond their prices, but more were particularly concerned with the provision of tools and products in their Committee on the budget by 2021. The Ministry of Health has then informed the legal committee of employment. A better perspective must be made on the provision of households and household aid tools. In a few years, the treatment of members of the household has gotten heavier and more important to follow along with more specialized care. In the past three years, the greater part of two types of contributions to the two - year homes have been raised. The budget, a total of 577 million. K, based on the increase in the calculation of the increase in nursing weight. The greater part of the study is that the medicinal product costs for each person should be within the general drug system. This makes the nursing home more transparent and equal to their status. It is also a matter of justice to individuals who need different medications. The rest of it suggests 300 million. K. The financial resources of Iceland's Medical Insurance, but in this fund nurses can bring up extra financial resources if services to individual households are temporary or permanent significantly higher than the standard paid according to nursing weight assessment. In a few cases, members of the household can call for an expensive design, an expensive drug, or a special aid tool, and they are classified as being so - called outlaws in terms of expenses, which will be considerably higher than their daily expenses. It is therefore suggested that nurses can apply for additional payments for appliances and pharmaceuticals and special care of members of the household with a lot of care due to the years 2019, 2020, and 2021, i.e. The year the contract was not valid and the two years that the current contract took place. It is suggested that the Ministry of Health provide additional guidelines on the exchange of contributions and Iceland's Health Insurance for their implementation. The majority believe that by this procedure the proposal in the bill may add somewhat to the household management. The majority stress that drug costs must never become an independent motivation to choose between those needing nursing care. A proposal is made in the bill about a billion dollars. increase to support home management status and to further the extension of domestic contracts with Iceland's Medical Insurance. The decision of the money will take into account an analysis in the report on the annual average business of the past few years. The greater part points to an additional 800 million. K. remuneration aimed at improving domestic costs due to changes in shift work programme to meet the agreements on abbreviated work week. In a year, that budget is estimated at 1.2 billion dollars. The addition of the funds and remunerations results in an increase in the daily expenditures of institutions, with an increase of about 4% on average. The contributions of the past few years and their switch to business and investment are set out in a special table for further enlightenment. The majority of these points point to the need to reevaluate the contributions when the analysis work following the report is completed on the basis of counsel, which should be kept in mind that over the past few years there has been a major initiative in the growth of households and increase in funds for management. Even more valuable services are needed for older ones, but mostly the management of appropriately employed nursing homes must be met. In connection with the work of the case, the Hospital's affairs were reviewed and the hospital representatives met with the committee and made a thorough explanation for the results of this year's last year's project. Simply put, the situation is balanced, but it is said to take into account some of the costs and variations that need to be considered in more - than - average conversations between managers and consultants. the cost of the epidemic and the costs of collective agreements. In accordance with the agreement between counseling a health - care professional, the hospital will be expelled within three years. The plan is to propose to the budget board and the General Assembly to bring down the older cumulative angle. The greater part points to the importance of not being able to inhibit the operation and stresses that the Ministry guarantees increased transparency when assessing the impact of collective agreements so that there is no constant conflict in the cost of their evaluation. Conditions in society produce changes and loss of employment and are increasingly seeking an important study. The minister of education and the government have emphasized that this increase is being met by all who attend school. The majority have called for information on the development and planned number of students and have evaluated available donations. Clearly, uncertainty about the trend of high school students is high, especially in view of changes in unemployment. The application deadline for the coming school year has not passed, but experience in recent years shows that many people wait until the final moment for their study. More reliable evaluations are made when new numbers are called after the completion of application and students have paid dues in August. Nevertheless, the registration suggests that raising funds to a university is necessary to make the student's headcount aquifer for teaching costs. The approved rate was 2.7 billion. contribution to funding the hard work of study is an opportunity in which jobseekers are given the opportunity to participate in studies both in the advanced and in the colleges. Plans for participation have not been successful in terms of spring mismosis. It can be assumed that the postmark of the original contribution for the training program is an opportunity paid for 2021 C.E. to be less than 1.6 billion dollars, 138 million. K. At university and 1,44 million. K. in high school. In view of this, the greater part makes a suggestion for the transfer of high school media into a university language range of 1,444 million. K. Among the suggestions made in the bill is 260 million. K. a donation due to a concentration to jobseekers who have been paid unemployment improvements continuously for 14 months or more. Reevaluation of the proposal has revealed a lack of assessment. This is explained by the calculation at costs that the mean improvement rate for this group of jobseekers was expected to be the same as taking into account everyone without a job in 2020 or by 72%. However, during further follow-up, the improvement rate was higher than 92%. This adds to the estimated cost of the procedure, where the volume is paid in proportion to the individual improvement rights. The increase in cost could be over 90 million. K. and would be the magnitude of a scholarship of about 350 million. K. with the proposed changes made by the majority in accordance with prospective information at a meeting of the Committee. The charge is increasing with this change of 90 million. K. The majority of the workweek's small workweek funding and special recognition of its impact on major organisations were considered by the job position and funding. It will be fully financed by using the general reserve. Regarding further discussion, I refer to the committee's opinion of the greater part. The majority of the changes they make are summarized in a special chapter at the end of the committee opinion, as well as in the form of them. 1673. I have already explained to most of them, a respectable president. It was a college transfer to an increase in students, an increase in money in the 25th language field for nursing homes, 300 million. K. in a special fund to meet nursing problems, and 90 million. K. increase in topic fields 30, labour market and unemployment due to a reassessment of jobseekers' concentrations. In addition to the changes I made, a proposal for a changing economic exchange of 250 million is made. K. a contribution to international development cooperation. In the bill it is registered as running contributions, but now it is converted into a business extension in accordance with the nature of the budgets. The majority suggest that the bill will be approved by the changes explained here, and I went over and the proposal is made in a special Senate document. Under this heading, the following publications will be written. Councilmen: Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Páll Magnússon, and Þóra Árnadóttir Auradótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u8	A respectable president. Now the nurses have suggested that there are 3.5 to 4 billion missing, I can't quite remember the numbers, whether it's not up to 9 billion. Now they're gonna put $1 billion in there, and I'm gonna ask you why. Chairman of the budget board whether it is just a little patch on the slope business. It has been claimed that many nursing homes are beyond the limit, and this may save them that they do not cross the edge. But I also ask about the household's medical and medical expenses and rehabilitation costs - are they setting up enough funds for the nursing homes to get at least the cost they've already paid for them? Given what I've seen, given what household requirements, I don't think this is enough to restore business management. I'm afraid too, asking what. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson is not afraid too, that this may be a terrible blow on those who are to be served properly in nursing homes. I ask if more had been put in there to make sure that people do not suffer from impaired service.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u9	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson for this question. We talked about this a lot on the committee. Whether this is enough or whether it's going to be all over -- no, it doesn't, and I thought it was a problem. A senator actually brings out the problem, or the limitations, of finding the only correct number for a financial committee. For example, it was very difficult for a financial committee to extract the only accurate number that will solve the problem of the day's spending in all the nursing homes, and the cost between them is a little different. There's a billion here being suggested, and I remind you that the report will be examined more carefully and see how the problem can be met. There's a billion in here that's almost the loss of 2019. It may have been hard to determine exactly how this happened to Covid, and what happened. A senator entered it, and how it would suffer in the nursing homes. However, Covid is certainly the victim of all the nursing homes and, especially, the household we know. The committee then went to work and was trying to do better, improve better, face up to this problem, what the figure was, and how to implement it. The committee has stressed that drugs are very different, and we know the story that ended with an additional 300 million in a special fund that we believe can be used for the nursing home in terms of an increase in nursing weight. And there is a context.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u10	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answers. If we call this 300 million plan A, I'm gonna ask you, is there a plan B? When should this be calculated so that the nursing homes that are at worst know? Will it be ready in the fall, next year's budget? When is the conclusion expected so that this nursing home can be sure that there will be sufficient funds to support business management and that there will be no risk that services will be impaired and those in your home will be able to obtain the services they have rights?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u11	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator with a follow-up question about nursing homes. And it is true, here we are trying to face this crisis following this report that had been left waiting for even some time. I'm just going to make an answer to what's going on here, the viewpoint of the greater part, but I think that's the view of the entire committee. We tried to find more answers. However, in order to form plan B, if there is involvement in the drug cost within the general pharmaceutical system, this will be much clearer. At that time, nursing homes may not be able to avoid taking those who have put their burden of care and the most expensive cost of medicine. There's one thing. I hope that, when the next year's contract is due for a day's expenses, it will be made possible to make changes in law and regulations in the way of help tools and medical costs, that this will be more beneficial and clearer, and that we will meet the day's expenses for care. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u12	Mr. President. Although the work market is currently being published, there are still 20,000 people out of work, according to the last figures of the employment agency. Of course, we expect this number to go down to summer, but we still estimate that this will be 61.77% unemployment 2023 and 5% unemployment 2026. After the collapse of the bank, the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, the management of left greens, and the United States, and ASI, and SA of various resources at work markets, including the U.S.A. to extend the unemployment period, then three years, to four years. They agreed that this was a good operation. Now the ASI, the rural communities and the council here at Congress have called for an extended period of unemployment to the state of which we live, while the government and the body of industry have been opposed to this operation. Now it is that some 110 people per month fall out of the system and there will be an increase in the number of future plans as the year passes. People who have been out of work for two and a half years will have to check the local community services and the relief agencies after meals. I want to ask you why. A member of Congress whether he feels acceptable to direct people into this financial crisis and asks if he could not accept the UN's vote for extending his unemployment period by six months.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u13	V.E.G. President. Thank you. G. ItHarðardóttir a Oddný question for a nice question. We went to the Committee to learn of some resources that are being called for and about the labour market, work, work, work, work, work, work, and workforce. We've had other options, such as study, etc. I've been really thinking about extending the season. I remember when I first came in here in 2013 that then we cut short the period, it was a very painful operation, and went back to 30 months. I say I'm thinking because, in the past, I thought it might be wise to go right into an extended period. Now that we see it's looking up, like a wriggle. A senator came in, I'm not so sure. On the contrary, I may have come to believe that it would be more reasonable to have effective measures. The cow's gonna be here any minute. Like what? A senator came in has a slight increase in the number of ones who fall out, but we should be diligent in using only the existing, new, functional measures. I believe we shouldn't go to an extension of our time. We've had other options. We've extended the income-related period, and we've brought in some child benefits, and we've improved the benefits and the resources. In the longest of the songs, we should emphasize effective measures.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u14	Mr. President. I want to ask you why. A senator what he thinks happens to people who have been out of work for two and a half years and who have been working in the system, which, according to all the analysis 37% in the first month of unemployment, if we lent the unemployment period, will keep the people who are long - term, longer inside the system, with functional systems that follow when you're inside the system? How's it going, man? A senator keeping an eye on the people who are dropped out of unemployment and entering the community service of the locals or not? That service is not consistent all over the country and is at least Twice as low as the unemployment benefits. What advantage is it for society to keep these people in very poor and no extraterrestrial conditions, i.e. someone who doesn't get a limited supply of community service? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What's that as high as possible? Does the government think that it is beneficial for society to keep people in poverty and food help in the community? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is a disgrace, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u15	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's subsequent question of extending this period. I strongly refuse to accept the fact that someone is being kept in very poor condition. There is no one holding one or anyone at all. On the contrary, in the previous year I answered that the important thing in these circumstances was activity. It is always the benefit of everyone and society and those who are concerned with creating effective measures rather than extending lengths and lengths. Everybody's going to lose it. However, we need to pay close attention, and this is well documented. How much wiser it is to build up money with work and additional resources to get people involved and to help them work themselves!
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u16	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, president of the Fundament Committee, to study the material of budgets. Later, at this meeting, we are expected to discuss a bill for a change in the law on mail services and the law on a living institution that is good and valid. It keeps us from performing so - called public service in the postal service, i.e. one price, one country, same price for whole country mail. Now it's just a matter of small letters, but the market has more to carry on the package. This is a burdensome point for people who live in the country and are increasingly angry at the website and so on, as well as for the international websites that may need to launch their goods. I wondered, it's been discussed, and a team is supposed to go to work to handle this point, if there's no need for equal measures to take so far. The law goes into effect in July, while the whole service regulations are being applied in later years. I wondered whether in terms of budgets, I don't see it, that are the principles that catch the country's settlements, that will take the cost of meeting if the cause is not that this should just be even more burdensome to the urban areas, and that reduce the standard of living in the country, which is still adverse if we take those who live here in the urban areas south of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u17	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Goddess of the Brjánsson Thomson for this question. It's about a bill that's been treated on a environmental and transport committee and I've only been trying to monitor it. We, on a budget, know about Iceland's affairs and these changes in the law. Then it was decided on an Environmental and Transport Committee, in connection with this adjustment, that there would be one price for the entire country. There was a great deal of agreement, and this involved an increase in costs, but a few criticisms have been made in Iceland, making it a little difficult for them in their prices. It's an email and telecommunications agency that comes with decisions related to the U.S. prices of Iceland's e-mail. So there is a problem. But now it's time to go. A senator entered this task force. I know that this has been under consideration by the Environment and Transport Committee in that this group, and now these issues are subject to a living agency, saw just some balance fund, possible, and how to balance this price and meet the greater costs. Of course, this is in a very specific part of the shipment, so this cost needs to be evaluated. I have not yet seen an accurate number of food costs because there was one price for the whole country, so I can't answer that. But I would always back up that it would be equal for all the people of the country to get the mail home.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u18	President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Unable to do so, it is a mission to the region. I'd like to mention it as a piece of cake. There was talk of a senator, i.e. The nursing home and medical services in general. The situation is shocking. It's a disgrace to the people of Iceland. The situation is simply this way today, so that neither individuals nor graduate can be checked out. We are in this wolf crisis. Why on earth, I ask why. A senator and the chairman of a legal committee, have they not been put aside any money, since the situation is soon, in financial contributions to get out of this system? It's clear we can't go any further, and we have to find new ways. We have to find the best ways. They exist. We don't go on like this. We've been in this crisis, this discussion, year after year, even for decades. Is there no money left aside so that we can prepare to get out of this cycle and out of this wolf crisis?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u19	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's question of nursing homes. I'd like to start by saying it out first, because of that. The senator gave the first answer to talking about a funeral in the country, that I completely reject it. It's not happening. For the nursing home, I'm not gonna stand here saying everything is perfect. We know this problem, and we've been keeping it under consideration under a budget all the time. But I'm going to remind you that when we took care of a financial program, we put 10 billion into the system, into the business. Now I'm just pulling out the size. During the election season, the contributions have increased by 42% if we just take our daily expenses, so it is not as if these contributions are not being tried to meet. Hv. A senator, on the other hand, makes it clear that we must think in terms. We need to think of a greater variety of agricultural shapes, increased support for the elderly because this is how the system will not function, and it knows why. A senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u20	Mr. President. I hereby recommend the Committee's opinion of members of the committee and the changes made from a smaller section of the budgetary committee to represent the United States Group on a budget board. The effects of the crisis following the epidemic of Covid-19 are more intense on those who lose their jobs and their families. Basic employment benefits are high under the minimum pay and are now up to about 88% of minimum income insurance. As noted in the European Union on the Icelandic work market of 2021, the labor loss of jobseekers averaged about 37% during the first months of unemployment. The contractions are spread in smaller and more vulnerable groups than in other Icelandic recessions, i.e. mainly professional loss and loss of income, but not limited to inflation and a general decrease in pay. Young people are experiencing a long - term negative income caused by difficult employment conditions while they are at risk of giving up the job search and disappearing from a job market. The social costs of long-term noncooperative work are high and can have a major negative impact on the health of jobseekers and their children. Job's loss is more serious in crisis than in good health. A lot of people lose their jobs at the same time. The number of jobs is reduced, so it is harder to find another job, and the long - term lack of work is increasing. Poor social and health effects of long-term inactivity are known. They are expensive for families and society. It is important that jobseekers find a job in which their education and experience are most useful. Otherwise, valuable education and specialization may be lost. A serious situation has developed in an Icelandic labour market that allows messages to cross people's minds about the situation, and there's a lot of information about the situation. Business drivers and tourism officials claim that unemployed people say no on a large scale and prefer to spend summer vacations on unemployment. The Common Union claims that some companies offer too little money to take advantage of the people's plight, and some of them have literally dumped people and hired employees instead of the government's recruitment skills. According to a labour agency, fraud in the system of jobseekers is very common. It is very important that all people strive to collect reliable information on the real position of the delicate part of the labour market. People who have been unemployed and who do not treat people like products on a stock that can be handled when convenient and treated freely. It must be taken in order to protect the long - term effortless. The key issue in this is to extend the unemployment period by at least six months. The United States has repeatedly provided proposals for longer unemployment periods, from the time it became clear that the outbreak's consequences would be considerable and would last longer than legal unemployment periods. Just as often, these have been suggested by the government groups. Before the epidemic, at the beginning of 2020, some 10,000 people were out of work and 1,800 had been unemployed for over 12 months. In that case, alarm bells should have begun calling for heavy employment standards and for solutions. After the collapse of the bank, the work market members agreed on the success of the year by the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, including to extend the unemployment period that was then extended to four years from three. Now there's another note in the category of industry and at the highest level. Government. The legal unemployment period is two and a half years, and a hundred people drop out of the system every month. By not extending the unemployment period, a number of people, after long - term unemployment, are being referred to rural social services, but the amount that comes is far less than unemployment. People are also referred to after meals and usually to both. Governments lead this group in a straight direction to very poor health. The organization is now making a final effort during this ideal period to change this, suggesting that, with its approval, an amendment of the budget will be possible to extend the period of unemployment improvement by six months. It is expected that by 2021, this prolongation, if rendered on July 1, 2021, would result in a total of 710 million. K. That's 710 million. K. in 2021. I'd like to shoot it in, Mr. President, that the tax reductions that resulted from changes in the tax base of the capital tax taxes that they raised in Iceland's highest paying, that took over 710 million dollars. K. in 2021. There, President, is a clear example of the priorities of this government. The minority points out that despite projections of recovery and evidence of better prospects in the labour market, plans for 5% unemployment in 2026 are expected. Thus, there is a real risk that there will be a longer period of unemployment than there have been in recent years. It must be reviewed by legislation on unemployment insurance and by considering the rights of wage employees of the changed labour market. The labour market rights and welfare systems depend on the traditional fixed recruitment relationships between employees and professional drivers. Such rights are common in many places where employees are pressured into part - time jobs, disloyal jobs, and the pay contracts of a small salary. This is a relatively small invitation to young people of foreign lands, and today the situation is increasing. The impact of this survival security over life is immense and is having a negative impact on rights collection, pension rights, unemployment insurance, health and medical rights and rights to delivery. It has been claimed, including by the metropolitans of the industry, without a lot of work if unemployment rates rise. So it is important to keep unemployments low. When thousands of pandemic jobs are reduced, causing serious problems in the largest nation's industry, such claims are clearly wrong, and there will be no new jobs by creating trouble in the homes of those who lose their jobs under those circumstances. In addition, research shows that unemployment is no more in countries where there is strong unemployment insurance. In Iceland, there has been a high level of employment during a normal year's trip, even though unemployment benefits have been near the minimum. The union has repeatedly suggested unemployment improvements to 95% of minimum income insurance. Such adjustments are also suggested for this time and are suggested to be on July 1, 2021. It is assumed that the cost in 2021 will be about 2 billion. President. The government has agreed to a four - dollar budget, with a nursing home operating in abundance. The rural communities have long expressed concern for this position, and the Conspiracy repeatedly offered proposals for changes in budgets all have been dropped. The government, however, must be at the expense of nursing homes, but many of the country's nursing homes are run by rural society by a contract with Iceland's Medical Insurance. As a result of this lack of government during the past few years, rural society has had to pay billions of dollars to ensure a decent service in the country where the State is responsible. For example, Akureyri City has paid up to 2 billion dollars. with nursing homes in town for the last eight years A new report on the cost of nursing shows that government funding is not enough for nursing homes. This lack of governmentism can result in the loss of service to people. The report states that the loss of nursing staff management accounts for 3.5 billion dollars. In 2017, 2020,191919. The loss of most nursing homes has been maintained, and it does not matter who runs the home. Neither private nor rural society will be able to get away with this financial wish. No nursing home meets the national surgeon's minimum limit of care time, reaching the land surgeon's criteria for the minimum rate of nurses or other professional staff. The age of family members in nursing homes has greatly changed over the past three years, which were studied in a report by the Committee. This increased specifically in the oldest group aged 90 years and older, with a reduction in the number of drug groups in the second half group. It was said that this affected the weight of a nursing home, which once again affected the cost of each space. Government representatives have often pointed out that the funds are at the General Assembly, but they must bear in mind that the government groups have more than that at the General Assembly and provide support for the seminary and provide less suggestions on doing better. In this case, the Commission will determine how the budget should be handled and how many spaces are available for the requested amount. Is this done in collaboration with health insurance that handles contracts on behalf of the State? The minority feels it is obvious that adding only 1 billion to this group will in no way reverse the problems of nursing homes. More needs to be done, encouraging the smaller item to reevaluate domestic agreements that ensure good service to those living there. Mr. President. It is difficult to believe that the situation that exists today at the Emergency Hospital is regularly encountered because of the lack of space and the need for emergency care. The situation is not new. At the end of 2019, there was a similar situation as when the assessment and campaign group were set. Swedish experts came to this assessment and suggested and improve. Clearly, we need to deal with the problem that is fundamentally two kinds of problems. On the one hand, it's a design. There is a primary need for nurses who have educated themselves but who choose to do other jobs because of the years of hostilities and pressures that the government is responsible for. There is also a shortage of doctors and medical personnel. There is no room for more people to be employed, and government responsibilities are also involved. The health system has been on the duty of the Independence Party in the government for the past eight years, and there are plans to continue. At dawn, a surgeon told the news that the situation had never been as bad as it was now in the Hospital Emergency Department. Some 500 nurses in the department this summer are unmanned. However, the problem is due to a lack of nurses. In the news on June 9, 2021, the director of the emergency service of the Land Hospital said that the proportion of patients waiting for nurses or other medical procedures was never higher. The growing number of options for the elderly to be released at the hospital is the most important action that can be taken to correct and permanently solve the situation. The absence of emergency doctors issued a statement describing the safety of patients under current conditions. The statement, by permission of the president, says: ▪ We refer to serious incidents in the emergency department, caused by human resources, inadequate employment or other related factors, all responsibility for the cases for the director of the Hospital, the Svandís Svavarsdóttir Health Safety, the Chief Director of Health, Bjarni son of Benediktsson, and the World Council, which govern the government's budget. On December 10, 2020, the Ministry of Health announced that donations would be increased by 1.7 billion. in nursing space and most of the funds would increase the number of nurses up to 90 in the capital area immediately next year, i.e. This year. It was also noted that there was a aim to provide housing and transportation as early as the year after the year, and it would be expected that Iceland's health insurance would be advertised for housing and the operators for new housing, in line with the laws on public shopping soon after the New Year's Eve. This work was being carried out in February and March, and it has not yet been reported. In view of the memory of the part, when 120 people are known to wait in a land hospital for provisions, it is unacceptable that governments will not move faster and not put forth better effort in this matter. Thus, the smaller portion is limited to governments to use the money that was specially placed in the nursing room as soon as possible. The lesser part brings attention to the problem. paritaprevir The S. Brjánsson of the United States Congress is the first member of the Parliament's resolution to the boundaries of the new welfare policy of the elderly. To address the root cause of the problem and to achieve lasting success in this category, it is important that such a policy be met, with emphasis on the promotion of home service, nursing, and day - to - day activities for older people. It must be made specific until the year 2030 and at the same time emphasis on user - oriented assistance based on the coordination of well - established services and trust rather than on concrete and the application of appeals to the past and to the society of the past. Mr. President. Now I've reviewed the committee's representatives in the budget board and explained the proposed changes. Certainly, it would have been possible to pick up more adjustments in order to add up the gaps that had been provided by 2020, but we choose to choose two important suggestions to meet people who have a major pandemic problem, in order to lighten up with people who have had to carry the weightiest load while the largest group, and fortunately most in Iceland, has not suffered such loss of income. Therefore, it is essential to extend the unemployment period to at least six months and to increase monthly unemployment rates. They now stand in 307,430k. During a month, but if our proposal is approved, they'd go up 95% of the minimum insurance policy. The minimum insurance policy is $351,000. and this would do just over 333,000 cases. per month, which would only improve the situation. It is important for people who have to make commitments regarding housing, food, clothing, and training of their children to receive 26,000 sums. That's more than a month. President. I'm amazed to describe myself and the wonder of lack of understanding. Governments, senators left green, forward and independent party at the position of the people who have had to carry these burdens in a pandemic. Discouragement is shameful, scandalous, and Icelandic society.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u21	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill for the budget law by 2021, and it'll just have to say, just as it is, that I am very disappointed in how the government can, and it's done the whole season, including Covid, leaving one group, i.e. The elderly, unfortunately, without any increase in income. In fact, the most terrible injustice I have seen with older people is with those living in poverty. It's kind of strange that we can put such a law on someone's getting minimal pension, but that it's not supposed to be the case, it's 10% lower than minimum of 10% less. How much is the minimum pension today? Taking an individual together is about 233,000 taps. paid. Only one receives about 30,000 bucks. more, or about 2 60,000 k. We'll see in our hand that if we take 10% of that 233,000 cases. we're talking about 210,000 bucks. paid to survive. I would have hoped that somewhere, at some point, something would have been put in to change this, to the money or something. The government has had enough opportunity to try to do something for this group, but somehow she has succeeded in crowning it and making this group even worse by putting in a centenarian again, taking up the extraordinary financial violence that is involved in putting a dollar against a dollar's impairment. If any group should have avoided a cent in return to a decrease, it would be this group, if anything to get this group out of a very limited number. No, it is determined to place him in a very poor condition, and he will be there no matter what happens. He doesn't have a chance to be okay. If we go on page 18. 12 Draw Close to God! 27 Gnostics and the Causes of Disappointment, and then comes the point, No. 29 Was It Designed? But between that and the 28 subjects of the elderly, it's empty, nothing. This describes exactly what the government has been doing for this group: nothing, but, contrary, bringing people into worse and worse financial situations. Perhaps those who are now in government will return with the phrase for the next election: A lifetime of care free from anxiety, with blank pages and nothing. It's kind of sad in this context of the funds, about desperate and disabled people's affairs, that there's nothing there. That's 20 million. Well, that's a disaster for all of us. So this shows the blackness of the white priorities of this government, as well as the financial agenda, there are no increases. It is not even an attempt to keep a pay number. It's only a consumer's prescription. And there is nothing about handling and/or undoing any category of mending which was promised by certain government classes that they would correct. We must never forget that because in the collapse of the bank at the time, the social security pension was reduced by 10%, and it was promised consistently that it would be the first thing the Congress corrected, but it was never corrected. That's why my face is getting so fat. If we look at it in the background, we're talking about a hundred thousand dollars. increase. If we took everything into, both the pilfering and the tax and the other, we wouldn't be talking about someone trying to pay for 233,000 bucks. Also paid in 333,000 or even 350,000. It would have come to the same place that we were in 1988 when tax markets were recorded. Sadly, though, that is not part of this situation. Then it is remarkable that there is nowhere to be handled, either in the budget, in the financial bill, or in the financial plan, regarding these impairments, these incredible impairments in this system, that we should be able to have a system where we can reduce from 75% to 100%, that each of the 100 thousand may yield 25,000 or 26,000 bucks. Or nothing. Especially if we put it in this regard, most of the money we make is funded by pensions. If we had the same way of thinking about the pension money we're dealing with money money, we wouldn't be taxing it except about 22%. It would be a wonderful step if it were to be done. But that has not been so. We're in an amazingly weird position with, like, a... The nursing home, as I discussed earlier. The chairman of the budget board, Willum Þór Þórsson, both the area of affected by these households, and also the amazing situation that after four years in this government, an amazing number of older citizens are trapped in the most expensive resources that can be chosen, i.e. In hospitals, in Land Hospital, ◯ university hospital. This puts such pressure on the hospital that it's amazing. This was discussed at the beginning of the first period of this government. But there's nothing done, unfortunately. It's just a few Band-Aids and things just keep moving. If we put it in the context of what we lose, the money that goes to nursing homes and the money that goes to keep seniors in the clinics - the sky and sea between expenses, which tells us to get nursing homes in and arrange for more nursing homes to be built, it would be very quickly to pay off. Unfortunately, only the patches on it are the same as the ones that have most here in this system. We have also experienced a measure of disappointment with the effort to begin our work. I would have expected that inside that package, it would have been possible to correct the incredible discrimination in regard to, e.g. students and others, it can also apply to older citizens, i.e. working and paying off into your employment insurance fund but getting nothing out of it, getting paid for some kind of money, but you don't get anything out of it when you need it. It's got to be a sort of estate tape because if you don't get anything out of what you pay into it, you just shouldn't pay for it, it's not supposed to be a very complicated thing. But somehow it gets complicated by the system and especially by the government to see to it how it fixes. And what may be the most surprising of all, as we have seen about starting work, has been completed some 3,000 jobs but said that 9,000 men asked for jobs, this was 7,000 jobs. I get kind of stopped when I meet people who say, "I'm in the social network. I found a job, and I was so happy to see that this was the time to start this effort, to start work, to find a job, and to go to work. But no, I just got a clean no because I didn't fit in the box. The law had been tailored to someone who is a social reformer - predicting it; by social reforms, because social services are the worst form you can get into. In fact, it is where you depend on a mate. If the combined income of the home is over 340,000 dollars. it all starts out of shape. A dollar a dollar a dollar. These are individuals who may have been inside this system for a long time, and if a person who has been in such a long time and wants to get out, that must be the first thing every government should say to him: Yes, come on. You'll get this job. But not this government, no, the system wasn't built for you. Someone else is supposed to get this. I must say that a man doesn't understand, but maybe it has something to do with that we have 307,000 bucks. in unemployment benefits, which were 472,000 bucks, if I remember correctly, and 11% in a pension fund that was being inserted into. It tells us that there is no doubt much greater progress in starting jobs. This also tells me why we're always discrimination in this system. We can see that in older cities, in microchips, in social reforms, and then out of work. There's always some discrimination going on. Some can land in a system where they've got it, others can land in a system where they're good, but it seems that there's no way to create the only right system where everyone's happy. I think that the obstacle there is that government by the government is moving forward, and that is to calculate the right implementation that people can live on with dignity and especially with children. We're in a weird position if we don't. Another factor that is tragic in these funds and the budget over which we know that following the use of Covid, there will be an enormous increase in rehabilitation, but it does not seem to solve that problem. It seems that it has not been approved or arranged, so it works out well. It seems that classes like physical therapists and even speech pathologists and others don't negotiate, experts are stopping and going, just closing, and we are now looking up in an emergency hospital in the position that it's just a crisis situation. And what is happening too? Yeah, people. My husband's about to have a big problem. Why on earth would that be? Yes, because people are just burning up in their jobs. The pressures of Covid's work are coming back, and the pressures we face as a result of the collapse of the bank collapse. We're barely over it when this shock happens. We will see how much effect it will have if we just look at our children. It was quite frightening this morning that there was an increase of up to 50% in depression and anxiety among youths - a 50% increase. This is a huge, serious matter. This does not seem to be an a specialist phenomenon. It is just a problem all over Europe. The main problem is, and it was found, that there was a large number of these young people, from 18◯34 years of age, who could not afford to go to a psychiatrist or a psychiatrist. It tells us that there's a lot of trouble in the system, and it also tells us that we have a responsibility to deal with it. Somehow it needs to be interrupted. That would have been possible, perhaps by means of the law. Perhaps the problem is not only a financial problem but also a caremaker. And then you ask, "Why? " What is it in our society that causes people not to want to do the work they have educated in the medical system? It is this tremendous stress that people are just burning out in their jobs, unable to continue working, and simply unable to do so. Of course, this is what worries us. I'm not going to have this shit much further. I just want to point out that we have an obligation to do so, and it should be up to us to see that no one lives, or needs to live with children in desperate condition. That we have not yet done so in 2021. That we have at least a dozen families and children in poverty, and half of them are even very poor, and the proportion is increased because we're getting our income together because we don't care what anyone says; while we're losing everything in percent, it doesn't work. 10% of 220,000 bucks. is only 22,000. But if we put them on top of a million, we'll see there's a hundred thousand bucks. It's almost five times that. As long as we have the system like this, they've always made it worse and worse, and those who are doing it better and better. This is also reflected in what I said, that it is possible to accept a legal property fund and turn it around - of course, they do not accept the pension fund, but they use a insurance agency to reduce the amount of money they receive. But that it is possible to do so by 75% and 100%. At the same time it's not the 80% tax on those with billions of hands, and they get to hold 20%, like the pensions, and even more could be cut. No one's gonna think of that. But somehow they're trapped and determined that it's okay to do it to the worst, and it's okay to put these people in a position where they need to choose from the beginning of the month what they're going to have for dinner, if they can just afford it. I would have liked to see carefully implemented in these funds, that we would take at least a few people, such as the highest. Secretary of finance, who lives in poverty - but when it comes to it, and I asked, "Why don't you? Then the answer is: Where should we get the money to do so?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u22	President. It's a pleasure to see money supplies at this time, for at the beginning of the year, the government was presenting a wide variety of operations relatively shortly after we had completed the budget. There were many new ideas about how to deal with the others and the predictable problems. But there was no suggestion for their actions until after a year's visit, after completing the budget. At any rate, I began to scratch my head a little bit and look for financial resources for all these measures that were then found nowhere and as I did, it seemed that at the end of the year, they should be dealing with it at the end of the year. In other words, they stopped responding equally, at least by means of financial resources, but they continued to respond equally by action, which is good and blessed, the most detailed measures many of them, such as what it is like to encourage people to work and to pay the actual unemployment rates and perhaps more than enough for them to go to work, just fine surgery. But there's always money to follow. That is fundamental, and that is key, because the government has to come to the Generals, which is in charge of the budget, asking if it's a good use of public funds or not. The government must not take action without showing black people whether it is a good use of public funds or not, and that should be the procedure, the budget. But there has been no tremendous effort. In fact, we will not get a staging analysis of why this is a better solution than anyone else, what other possibilities were available, nothing like that. It's not even possible to ask if the procedures that are being put into and look nice on paper - they've only been complained about, that there's some administrative barriers, there's something complicated like this about getting people on paper, that even if it looks good, it might be done so slightly dark and probably could be done a little bit better, and I think and I hope that a labour agency would bring it into the past as soon as the prospect of working markets is growing. But these are tasks that could make the difference, so to speak. But are these the best measures? Is this the best use of public money? Are you just guessing, like always before? It's just a guess. And if we don't just guess and there's some comparison with other ideas, we can't even see it. That, on its own, is not good and is not in harmony with the law we are trying to operate on. The General has a law and a recent law on public finance, a law on how we handle public funds, in which they represent the administrations, for professional administration, to work professionally on the measures that are to be taken by public funds to help deal with any problems we have in our community. A problem now is like a housing market, there is a shortage. It's in a job market, that's a lot of unemployment. Then we want to see what can be done to solve the problem. It's just a good list of ideas that can be selected from. That's how it's supposed to work. And of each idea, we need to see how beneficial it is. Perhaps we need to select a few in order to cover the entire group because the group, for example, is the group. Looking for employment is varied. It is largely young people and people of foreign backgrounds, people of the South, people of different national parts of the country. It's probably gonna take different measures at different sites, but we'll never get to see the ideas made, what's chosen and why. This is a key when we are to be persuaded, when it comes to convincing at the council with the documents we receive and the data we receive to process the financial resources, in order to publish to the people who own this community. We have to stand up to people out here. The government has to render an account to us so that we can render an account to the common people. When the government doesn't, neither can we. This is a key element, we want to have professional administrative administration because in Congress, as we would like to have according to a constitution and even say that a new constitution, it is so that anyone comes into this room, it's not a group of experts or -- we don't have to let it go of some other descriptions and say that in this room, it's not necessarily some group of experts who are very smart and smart in all categories, it's just not possible. Therefore, we rely on a professional government to determine and evaluate the ideas that come along and to enforce a set course and goals established by the government. The management board does not choose solutions. It's the politics who picks solutions. The democracy picks the ideas, the management arranges to analyze and assess the ideas and the politicians choose the ideas. So you might ask a small question: Is it the politics that chooses the ways that are going on in this financial bill and really in all of the government's actions? Is it the politicians who choose actions, or is it the government? Because when we ask the administrations what other options were there to solve this problem, we never get the answers. As if the operation we're looking at here, e.g., paying for people's jobs, as if it were actually the only solution the management decided to weigh and weigh. In fact, it is so true that we are not affected, we are fed at expense, not on impact. What are the effects of this operation? When I was asking about this on a budget board, I certainly got a bean count on how many jobs this is going to create, 7,000 people can get a job through this, but it's all over. ... aroundtheelection. That's the end of all this. When asked how many of them could expect to continue working, the response of the labour agency to the general question that when similar measures had been tried before, about 75% of those involved in the strategy continue to work. The Agency couldn't quite expect to be the same today because of the circumstances I just described, this is a more diverse group, a different group, and the like. All right. Maybe you can use this base, 75%, and take a careful plan about it, say that 70% of those who go through this process will be able to keep a job, but we didn't get that kind of food, and then we won't get an update on the position as it will be at the end of this year. What is expected in view of national forecasting of unemployment? If so, I cannot determine whether a government policy will improve the situation or not. At least not to what extent it will be. I'm guessing this operation will improve, absolutely. But as I said before, I don't know if any other method would produce better results, and there are a number of choices. There are these innovations that we covered over a year ago and that are obviously lost opportunities this year we've been in Covid. It was a lost opportunity in the last summer that would have meant a different position in the workforce today. I'm telling you, it's a story. How much? No idea, because there are no analyses of it, there were no plans for it. Nothing. It's not until now after the year when we're going to see some real job market operation from the government other than keeping everything gone, let everyone wait. It was the investment campaign that was full of concrete and roads, and it was necessary anyway. It took a whole pandemic to finally make a remarkable start when everyone had tried to do their thing, some more billion were found to make it up to the entrance site. It is this constant repetition; could we get to see what options were made, and why are some options not good enough to solve the problems we are dealing with today? We'll never see it. We can't get that information. After all, the answer is not yet answered. I say this is serious because we set the government laws on public finances to keep this straight, in order to make the administration more professional, in order to accept emotional decisions from the administrations, because, while the politicians can certainly decide, the politicians are responsible for making a choice. It's the role of the politicians to choose between different routes and solutions. However, it is the responsibility of the management board to evaluate in a professional way what these solutions mean. What are the benefits of these, whatever the cost. Of that, there is also a political issue within, e.g. Based on the basis of the data. When we have two solutions and others may manage poverty in some way, and the acquired settlements in a better way, which solution will we choose? Are we going to pick a mixture of both, we'll just pick someone else? It seems reasonable to whom, rather, should the emphasis be on poverty or settlement. Indeed, there are in the present situation, too, certain poverty reactions. That's why the politics are always arguing, while it's just professional results, a certain bean count, which the management put into the political discussion and we don't even get it. We don't even get the data we're asking for, let us get these analyses so we can say that according to our values, according to our convictions, our purpose here in this hall, we're going to follow a constitution, this solution is better than the others, or this combination of solutions is better than any other combination of solutions because, and then we can point out the underlying reasons. Of course, we are always asking, " Here is a definite analysis of the solutions we feel are not accurate enough. ' We explained this and the other way, asking for more answers to some additional questions that are behind them. In this way, we work back and forth with a professional administrative agency to get clear answers. All of this terms has been needed for financial work, no clear answer to clear questions. You have to ask again and again, and always the answers are the same, i.e. going around the answers. There's one thing I think of in the Committee in general. They are trying to save time in the Committee's work, and all the questions asked by the Committee are summarised. Maybe three, four members of the committee are asking five, six questions who? They are gathered, and visitors asked, and visitors try to scribble quickly what questions to answer, and then they answer each one in a vein and wait. The questions you are trying to communicate are often lost, they are lost, they are forgotten, or everything is not answered, and all of a sudden the time is just over. It's just assigned to you this 50 minutes. Visitors come and relate their review for 20 minutes, all members of the committee are allowed to ask for 20 minutes, and the answers are another 20 minutes. Then it's just over, past the clock, there were 60 minutes there, oops. That happens very often. Then the next guests will have to wait, come to the meeting a little later, and then the time will still be shorter. This is a highly uninformable system to work on, an unpredictable way to gather information to support the reasons that the solutions we provide for public money are good solutions, are well-developed solutions, are correct and good use of public funds. I've been trying to suggest that instead of piling in visitors, I sometimes feel like I'm calling in a guest in a case, just to pick up a box. We had visitors. This role is thus fulfilled. It really doesn't really matter what they said. Some members of the committee can go out and put out such specific references to guests in order to be distinguished, but in the end, it's just a matter of picking up a box, that visitors showed up, the matter just keeps on going on, regardless of what the guests were saying. It is very common in the budget too, taking into account a few things at all, fine, but nothing the guests added beyond the news. I've suggested, for example. that the committee reviews the reviews in some way, suggests the prognostic factors presented in the reviews, and even asks for more detailed comments from managers or at least with a more precise review of what needs to be explained when visitors arrive. In order to make the work more efficient, just as the laws on public finance are meant to be done for the entire budget, it should be more efficient, making it more thoughtful and more beneficial, so that the documents we receive, the explanations that we get about government policy achieve their goals not for excessive taxation, is the case. But no matter what you try to do, it hasn't all happened. I just have to say, it's very interesting after all. I can't help but it's just a determined wish to have it that way, because we've waited, well, I've asked at least a few times, that we'll take a good meeting with a e.g. The Ministry of Economics and other conferences as to how the General wants it. Here's one of the interesting things in this, because we have the legislature and financial resources and monitoring of the European Commission, funding of the budget and the person to give us information about the surveillance role we are given, the one we are monitoring. It's very heartbroken. It's not objective. It is biased, so I have tried to call for that we as the General determine what data we need in order to decide whether the funds are good or the financial laws are practical for us in the discussion or not. It hasn't happened.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u23	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a very interesting speech. The Senator spent a considerable amount of time in his speech to review the tactics employed here at the General and the other side, with the executive authority, I would like to say. After listening to what was happening, I felt very prominent. A senator, that there seems to be a passage among us, and I can agree with the tone of the word, that we do not take the time to do things well. The matter enters the council very quickly, even in big matters, as it were. A senator witnesses here. There's a lot of pressure to finish them fast. Visitors come yes, but it's given too little time to talk to them. This could be improved by the earlier performance of the project, better accomplished, with more information, such as that in the past. A senator is calling to propose to the Senate Committees: These were the choices we considered in this matter. That's what we thought we could do, and we should have gone that way. What happens to them is that the Council Committees, like a budget, are subject to what happens. A senator sits in, can say, "Why don't we try this? We'll see you haven't checked it out. By providing more room for matters, by informing them more about the preworks, prowess, and defects in the ideas presented, the council can be made much more effective. I agree very well, and I agree well with it at the moment. Senator. Hopefully, the General can put this into a slightly better course in time. It is too common for us to be working things out or having no time for us. Then there will be mistakes or wrong practices.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u24	A respectable president. I'm trying to promote a thought - provoking discussion on the matter of Congress, and this is exactly what I feel is needed to make it possible to get rid of the emotional decisions we see everywhere, in the government, and especially in the politics. Oh, my God, that's awesome. There are some things that could fix this, e.g. that there is a case at the next council, that they do not fall apart, so that a new one, etc. needs to be started. You've also heard that ministers are often in action with the administration. I think so, and I don't think it's the way it is, the Ministers being representatives of the Council of the Commission, with the executives. They are certainly responsible, etc. and the definition is like this. But they really represent the council there. Therefore, they have the trust of the council, or their lack of confidence, if necessary to do the job of ensuring that the government operates professionally, e.g. Under government legislation, the management board gives professional results to the council for processing. I'm gonna allow me to question the fact that the Ministers have been doing it so far. I hope it's possible to improve in the next term. But it's not easy. It's far from easy. Because you've heard of the fact that Ministers are at a certain point in the administration, I would like to see a minister come more to the council just to get its support, because they are often working very well within the administrations. As I'm saying, we're not a professional team, we're a team working out their convictions. [[The president calls.]] It requires the resignation of professional parties and professional management that we try to determine if there are any problems. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u25	Mr. President. Of course, we live by the fact that if there's a rule on things, every four years is chosen. The management board, or our system, lives much longer. As a result, there is, of course, much knowledge and experience that will exist there and be in it. When we send someone from the Council to the post, into the Ministry, he goes there to follow certain policies and projects. I think the person who goes in there is also very much dependent on whether he is in charge of politics and affairs at any given time, the social emphasis, how he can turn the large ship that is there. I know why. A senator can't come up again - can he? Yeah, once. I'm kind of confused about this. Actually, I'm a little out of business, but I'm gonna let myself use this minute for this. I've been a spokesman for that in the past. A senator will be a minister, if he brings a considerable number of people into the Ministry, not just one or two assistants. It is so important that the person can use these four years to work on the direction he is elected to work. I've had a very good experience with the problems I've been working on, it was very comfortable. And if I called for other options, I called for a dissension of something and logical support, it always came. It is natural for humans to do so in that way. However, the council also needs to be reached. It is not enough for the minister to sit in front of him with a lot of options, so he goes into his bag and reads if he cannot show the council what was available.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u26	Mr. President. That's the key, I think, i.e. that a minister doesn't say, "That's the best." But he says, "This is the most likely and best solution because the other one is not good enough about this and the other, it's not good enough for the rest of us, and I believe that this is the solution to our problems, according to all the analysis that we have so that we can reach certain goals. The key elements of the law on public finances are that they should be targeted. That's key. We want to achieve certain results, but the way we achieve them does not really matter if we succeed. What really matters about the steps we take to achieve that success is to the extent that we provide them and what the consequences of our actions may make up for other things. Perhaps it is a multi-item procedure that reaches the goal but also many others. Although it costs more, it costs less because it reaches many goals. There's a lot of stuff like that. The political thing that I feel should be more confined to goals. We will reach certain goals regarding poverty, education, infrastructure, mental health, and such. How we are going to reach that goal is not really important if we reach it. Do we agree to reach this goal? If we agree on this, it is easier to go through all the possibilities and see which possibilities are best to achieve them. There is something that professional management should help us and, of course, professional clients. I just agree with what. A senator for the assistance both members of Congress and Ministers get inside the Ministry to be a very important objector. [[The president calls.]] The Ministers such as this are not necessarily a member of the Ministry, but they represent the conscience of the council within the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u27	Mr. President. I want to be in this 2nd. the budgets of a nursing home and their status. I had a previous discussion with just about unemployment and the job market situation. I'm also going to come back after that, but all the biggest and most basic financial resources requested in this bill are linked to labour market regulations. However, the care of the nursing homes is not adequately solved. Perhaps it is right to state that the media will not have a change in these budgets. We've moved over 20 changes in budgets and budgets, and they've all grown up and for the many important stings, and I'll get in more afterwards. The proposals were all set up by the government categories, each of them, so we decided here and now to promote further suggestions we have made. Then we will introduce our policy in the coming weeks before the elections and our solutions in urgent matters that are facing. We simply consider it to be the most successful way in these matters because the government has a very limited understanding of accepting practical suggestions from the smaller parts of the world. As an example, I mention that the Central Party moved to the last two motions due to the nursing crisis some 800 million people. K. a donation to correct the urgent needs of the nursing homes. That proposal was entrusted, Mr. President. It would have solved in part the urgent problem we face. No, the government decided to make the suggestion, but now it's its own proposal for the last record just before election. In order for this to look good to her, she proposes to 1 billion in an effort to solve this urgent problem. We'll see, Mr. President, the virtual in this when it comes to making good suggestions. The middle class has long recognized the urgent problems facing a nursing home, but the government has chosen to put its head in the sand when it comes to their great problems. Remember, nursing homes are one of the most important basic basics of the Icelandic welfare system, just like that. The government has not lived up to plans made in the government covenant. How beautiful those words were when the government began to work to strengthen the staff of the nursing homes! We will see how it has drawn its feet all this time and, in fact, offered suggestions aimed at strengthening the platform. During this period of time, until now, the government has brought in a decline in the management process to nursing homes. A public opinion has pointed out that nursing management is very heavy, so the government was to know. Over the year, the root has gained weight, and then it changes the health insurance methodology to finance it. This was reprehensible because consultation was not to be taken care of. It was a one - side decision and without a discussion with nursing homes, the company's community of welfare services and the Union of Icelandic rural society. So when the government puts up a budget of 2020-2024, it just says that the largest project in the state's budget is the topic of nursing and rehabilitation. And what was done? Not a single thing created until today, at the moment, the government contributes this billion, and it notices that operators simply do not have the means to hold on to business, as it turned out. ... intheWestlandsand East. It is not enough to increase the number of nurses. It sounds really good to build a new nursing home, etc. But when it comes to business it's like there's something you don't have to worry about. Consider, for example, that the government set out to build 900 spaces, and more than 700 would be built in 2024 and then boasted that this would be a huge increase. But at the same time that the increase was 26% in new spaces, it was only 6% when it came to handling the business. We see that these matters are unwisely kept on the part of the government. And as I say, Mr. President, it's not enough to build a new nursing home. It must also ensure those who are in charge of the business so that these homes that are so important to us can do their part. It is necessary to go into the sewing of the nurses'financial bases and to review more fully the reports made by the National Review Board on the topic area. Then we face another problem that is humanized by nurses and nurses in the nursing homes. The head of the medical team has, for example. They say there is a serious shortage of medical personnel in the nursing homes. This has resulted in the need to refer to those who have a high standard of service where there is no healthcare professional available. The reason this situation is because nursing homes have been sitting around for the services of the past few years, that's just how it is. We need to strengthen our business. This is not a solution. This is a preliminary solution. This is being done temporarily and with certain conditions, extending the contract to February, reminding me, next year. At the same time, we realize that there is a permanent need for deliverance. It's not in the way. What happens after this donation expires? What? The problem is being addressed to the next government because the current government of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir has not dealt with the problem, as she promised she would do in a government contract. It is only the fact of the matter and the right to keep it. The enterprise's welfare services have repeated comments, Mr President, that it is necessary to support nursing and residence management and rehabilitation procedures. In the country area, this business is very heavy. It'll even come. that is because it is impossible to achieve the size prosperity achieved by the number of beds that all of us know can be identified in the capital area. There must be a credible conversation between the Department of Health, Iceland's Medical Insurance, Old Age Institutes, and the local community on this matter. It will be held here in the coming weeks and months that the government promised to handle this problem in a government contract, but it did not, nor did it run in the last record just before election, making contributions to show that they have any ideas of trying to solve it, but they cannot provide any reliable policy. What I'd like to say next, Mr. President, is a few adjustments made by the Central Party during the election season, both in terms of budgets and funds, most of them, as I say, in full-time financial and practical suggestions. We suggested that we solve nursing problems. It was refused. We offered a proposal for the health of the elderly, for management of the sufferers, for which there is a need, for the state's team has expired in this government, and we proposed to reduce insurance fees by 0.25%, support for disability, increase in the cost of disability, and detriment of pensions due to industry. There are many other suggestions, customs, and increased drug control, safe borders, suggestions for working against organized crime. As I say, the Central Party has moved over 20 changes in the terms of the season. They have all been cut off, showing the cooperation the government has shown, to which it has called. The government called for cooperation in terms of the epidemic, and the Central Party offered their suggestions on these topics, and we didn't get any sound support in this regard. We're sending in the highest power. The prime minister's e - mail to try to reach her ears in these matters, and that was not answered. We took the advice to advertise the proposals in the media to promote them. This is what the government called after, but it was nothing but showliness, Mr. President, which has marked much in the terms of the term by the government. But we in the Central Party don't give up. We've put in and we're going to promote in the next few weeks our economic and commercial proposals and other matters before the coming election, and we're going to put in many good solutions for these matters. I just wanted to get into business next time because unemployment is the biggest job ahead. It is quite interesting to review a review of the information given to the sector's organizations and the tourism services sent for this additional bill. It shows that the organization is indicating an increased will for recruitment. It's very good, and we certainly hope to predict the arrival of tourists in the country. The demand for employment grants is noted to have been several recently, and that is a good thing. On June 3, 9,700 jobs had been registered in the campaign, and most of them are actually related to tourism. It says that in spite of historical unemployment, people of unemployment seem reluctant to employ, and this is, of course, a concern. They also call attention to the fact that this recruitment process, which is now a good process and we support it, is slow and is an example of a company running employees through the campaign but has received a post-impliment at the labour agency, the Agency has not ensured from the beginning that employees met the qualifications for recruitment. There are buttons that need to be handled. They're here saying that the project on this seems to be lacking. Of course, it is not of good concern to respond promptly. It must be declared as it is regarding these measures of the government, which we in the Central Party have supported many - despite the fact that at the same time the government has turned down all our proposals we cooperate with, but there is now another in the government home - it is necessary for men to understand the effectiveness of the operation and what the process needs to be improved. There are some options that did not go well enough, and little demand for them. I mention a so-called bridge loan, but it's been better. Of course, there is a sort of analysis of the results and the need for improvement. But what's interesting about this is that a panel meeting came to the Work Department and her representatives wanted to deny that there were natural reasons why people were rejecting jobs. In this regard, we have to work together as a team. Of course, because there is a lot of money in the unemployment insurance system, we need to try to get better into those stitches. Our system is good for international standards and better than in many countries. Hence, it is very important to recognize why they are happening, if that is the case with the right to support them, to reject jobs. There is something that needs to be handled properly and in the work field of the employment agency. Here, too, some individuals are being referred to in the financial program that is being funded. I mention, for example. That this is a feature I did not mention in my first talk, that is about 120 billion. K. a donation to the bus bus bus. caused by the effects of the chorionic virus. I think it's a bit of a special funding in the way that this is being done by the local community and it's an example of the fact that this group is something that needs to be done much better. It has been attempted to increase in the number of buses at high cost, but it has not worked, and at the same time, it has been intended to place hundreds of billions of people on the city line project and to think that it can increase more in the buses by means of the methodology that we in the Middle Ages have serious doubts about. But here are also fine parts, such as the family matters, which we naturally support in the Central Party, the support of homeless people of foreign background. I made a comment in my earlier talk about setting up especially people of foreign origin; we should just have those who live sadly under the circumstances of being homeless under the same hat, regardless of their background. But this is a vital project, and we support it, and we also support a food - support organization. Of course, these are vital assignments, and we support them. I'm going to say at the end, Mr. President, that ahead are natural challenges when it comes to economic management in the country, and I've already pointed it out. There's a lot of compromise on the state funds and measures and the package we're dealing with here is about to increase the debt of state funds further, that I remind you of 8 billion, so that this year's state funds have reached 328 billion, which is naturally an enormous amount of money and a huge stream of state funds from year to year have many negative consequences to national preparation. All of this is under way to the next government, and this government has been very effective in bringing a number of resources in these last elections for the virus epidemic and hopefully making good use of them. But some of them I think may have a bit of a origin because there's an election coming at hand, I think it's quite clear. They have provided no income - repair programs. There was nothing to keep in touch with the financial plans established by the government. Finally, Mr. President, I certainly hope so, and I'm hoping we're getting this multi-item resistance. [[The president calls.]] The most important thing is that we recover from unemployment and that our economic wheels start to return, and there we will, of course, be exerted in the Central Party. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u28	Mr. President. A Senate closes in the next few days. This bill of the government for financial support is likely the last of its actions in the financial affairs of the State during this term. The bill is largely a confirmation of measures that have already been implemented. In accordance with our declarations at the beginning of the pandemic, we have supported all the actions of the government in the fight against it. Still, we have been critical of much of that action, and we have suggested other ways in many areas, but nothing has been heard. In some cases, however, the government has made them its own, but only in later stages. Mr. President. It is both right and necessary to assume that there is one significant exception from the fact that this is primarily a matter of reviewing what has already been established and that there is a contribution to the operation of a nursing home. The bill assumes that they will receive about 1 billion per day as well as 300 million per day's pay for the business. K. a donation in a special fund to cover expenses for those of the household who need most and most expensive service. That's good. But I'm going to say that these funds are not enough at least. not if you take note of what has been observed, not only from private nursing homes but also from local authorities. In addition, it has been noted that there is a considerable lack that many homes can provide the services recommended by a land surgeon. Several figures have been mentioned in this context, but I assure you, no one has said that 1.3 billion is sufficient. So the problem is over into the next election period and will be the headache of those who will be elected in the fall and of the government that will then be formed. Mr. President. In the news Pálsson, Runólfur reported that the situation had never been worse. During the interview, 120 of the more than 600 people in the hospital were bound by patients who actually didn't live in the hospital waiting for solutions outside the hospital. This would have been a persistent condition that would have to be resolved immediately. The Runólfur said that out of these 120 patients there are 90 waiting for a nursing home to be saved. So, Mr. Runólfur says, with President's permission: I think it's the highest number I've heard about those waiting for another service arrangement. I can't see any better than that number can rise and the number that's waiting for this. No one can handle this for long periods of time. Mr. President. This situation, of course, is intolerable. A solution is urgent, but everyone's problems have long been faced. In this context, I would like to point out that it was six months ago that funds were given to extend 100 nurses and nursing nurses to solve the domestic crisis. It was not until three months ago that the project was finally offered. A few invited to the assignment but still have no conclusions. Iceland's health insurance remains to be examined three months after the completion of an assignment. No position has been made available. No contracts made. So the invitation went on, the funds exist, people are smart for the job, and now, when the medical and emergency services manager says that the situation has never been worse, the health department and the health insurance department do not seem to have the ability or the will to complete the project. This is an intolerable waste layer that the government as a whole cannot compromise. Unfortunately, you may suspect that this might be the case with best resistance. Therefore, a health minister is appointed to take on tasks in the medical system. That hostility is no particular subject, but it's a news item if the Independence Party lets it go. Mr. President. During a discussion on the financial program of May 26th. I said, with the permission of the president: As an officer on a budget board, I can't say that I have a special opinion. So this talk must serve that purpose at the same time. I have to say, I've got a lot of questions about whether we should work on making adjustments in this financial program. The conclusion was not to do so, and the reason for this is very simple: During this period of restoration, we made efforts to put forth practical suggestions for making changes in funds, funds, and financial plans. It is hardly surprising to say that the work of the administrations employed here is that they have agreed not to accept anything that comes from the restoration, and, in fact, all the political groups as they go into action in case of that. So our conclusion was that this was a waste of our time, waste of the council, and waste of paper. Mr. President. These quoted words still apply, although we are now discussing a bill for financial aid. On the other hand, I cannot help but suggest changes in these budgets because the matter has simply grown to such an extent that we generals can be known only for dealing with the extraordinary injustices that disabled children are used by refusing to attend a portion of the students now to sit in school with their classmates in high school courses. In this fall, there are some 30 youths who have been disabled from birth who are not allowed to enter high school field work. The problem seems to be largely confined to the capital area. While it is said that there is an unusual number of years now, it must have been known during the past 16 years that the school system would have to be able to receive these children in the fall of 2021. The size of the year may not have surprised authorities. Mr. President. Yesterday, the Team Developmental Fund sent out the following declaration that I intend to read here, for it is of great importance: ▪ Last week, teaching directors sent special courses/trains in high school in the capital area a statement declaring disappointment and dissatisfaction with special education courses and tracks. The declaration points to the initiation of the intake process as the preparation of new students who begin high school in the fall. The instructors then criticize the increased demand to include more and more students in the circuits, causing them to take a bite on the learning environment and on the basis of personal study. The instructors encourage the growth of special courses/workways and the development of all high school schools and thus contribute to the development of school society without segregation. Finally, the declaration points out that the number of students enrolled in special courses should not be surprised when it is simple to obtain additional information from basic schools with good advance. The United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people, validated by the Icelandic government in 2016, thus committed themselves to enforce, discusses the right of education in Article 24. In part, it says: ▪ The Member States recognize the right of disabled people for education. In order for this right to be realized without discrimination, and on the basis of equal instruments, Member States shall provide educational systems without separation at all school levels. National Developmental Fundament deplores the office that has come up as a result of enrolling in high school careers and taking their minds to the teacher's declaration. It is completely unacceptable that the education system does not expect all graduates from high school school. Wait like this puts disabled youths in a very bad position. It is absolutely incorruption that arrangements have not been made by the school authorities at a time that has long been available for the number of groups each year. National Developmental Help Requires that all students who wish to sign into a career will be assured of an uninvolved internalization and a good and supportive setting for study where the needs of each student are met. Mr. President. Nice senators. Imagine for a moment being a disabled child who has looked forward to leaving one school level with his companions. Then there are announcements that my friend Nonni has entered this school, Stína's friend into the other one, and then on and on. However, Siggi and Sigga wait, and there is no announcement of school. They are left behind because there is no room and money to care for them. Can there be anything more tragic for these children and their caregivers? No, I don't think so. That's why I'm going to propose a modification motion between the 2nd and 3rd. ...of a sumof $110 million. K. Fundament to bring right to those 30 children who are so wronged. Mr. President. At the beginning of my speech, I concluded that this bill of the government for financial gain was her final work in the financial affairs of this elected period. During our restoration, we have criticized many things in the government's economic policy and warned that there was a delay in 2019 C.E. The reign of the State would have become insurmountable. The State's activities would be growing beyond reasonable limits, maintaining and reevaluating projects would be inadequate and would not be long enough to create an environment in the long run to promote the intellectual capacity of export companies, and most important, there would be fluctuates and inflation and growth in this way not to be a source of pleasure. So we have solutions that the three governments do not want to discuss. Sadly, they seem to be committed to someone's special interests and cannot tear them apart. That's why, Mr. President, it's good that the time of this trio will be over soon.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u29	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for his well - prepared and brilliant speech. There's two things I'd like at this hour to ask the senator about. On the other hand, this is a fine example, the process he considered in dealing with someone who is in some kind of private business in the health care department. I truly agree with what. A senator that it's like all ideologies, when individuals are trying to develop business in the medical sector, is in a way that is some kind of prohibition, which is amazingly special when we really need to expand our health care and health care sector in Iceland. I'm sorry I missed out when I had trouble. A senator gave an excellent example of structural communication. I'd like to ask the senator to recall it to me because I just didn't get it. But that is a very good example of how things are not meant to be. The other thing I want to come in on is the last thing I want to do. A senator mentioned an adjustment proposal he made here. It is natural to wonder that we experience that the minister of social affairs and child - care ministers is surprised to learn that there are major river marches along the way. All of this has been a long time ago. Isn't that right, then? A senator, in effect, lack of perspective and even lack of will, lack to understand that there is a need for financial support, and there is a need to respond? There's no need for the statements, what. A senator, from these fine advisers on what they want children and everyone else very well. It's there. It's there, but there's something else in the back.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u30	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson for the counter-sponsored. Yeah, it's the private business, it seems clearly, so when they get burned, there's a lot of sand in every tooth wheel in the system. As I mentioned in my speech, it is not surprising in itself. I don't think that's an undisputed policy at the highest level. Health Minister that private business is not desirable in the health system and that it is best for the public to do all of this. I don't understand. I don't understand because it's totally possible to plant it together. This does not mean that the private business should have some private right or something like that. Private management requirements and quality control are to be performed and followed very strictly. In fact, it is also part of the public system, making humans on a similar basis. Of course, a private company can be properly or badly run by men, but it is also possible for one to run a government business well or badly. I think this foundation is very important. The example I specifically mentioned was that six months ago, a special funding was given to provide space to solve the land hospital's problems. So, six months ago, the funds had arrived, the sale was three months ago, the program has been invited, people are standing by, that's a medical emergency. But no deal is clear. I'm going to get a second answer only to come in to the latter part of the question each. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u31	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his answer and for reviewing. It is true that although all this process has been passed, although everyone knows that there is a medical emergency - we now see reports of men counting, e.g. that there are 500 nurses missing because of the changes that have occurred, and there is an emergency at the emergency room. At the same time, however, things cannot be completed as well. A senator here points to the matter. It's all set, it seems, but it just needs the contract to do it. That's why you wonder: Is the perspective, or - I just don't know how to say it - there's no one here? It's so weird, Mr. President, to see this over and over again. In fact, no matter what we are discussing in this process, the health minister has completely failed in his work. This, of course, is available to those who support this health - care minister. It's an independent party and a forwarding party. Let us not forget that the branch minister of justice was replaced by the left green. A fine minister of justice was scraped out of here, but an independent party and a forwarding party hit a armored city around the health minister, who's running with his mouth and slouching against privates in health care. No matter what it is called, whether it is a nursing home or a clinic or those who offer surgery - no, because it is private, it cannot work. It's just that way. I'm not going to add a question, because I know I'm going to get an answer to my second question. I repeated earlier that it is completely unscrupulous to be surprised by such things. We can't leave our great people, those 30 disabled minors mentioned, to be left behind, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u32	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator again before the counter-sponsored. I'm just gonna start with the private business and the health system. Yeah, it's amazing. What I find truly remarkable is that today a standard of testing has been carried out in the Independence category, so advertising, articles, and a great deal of struggles in which it is normal. There I note that one of the main things many mention is that it is necessary to choose the Independence Party to ensure that the health system is saved and that personal business will again be allowed. It's as if these good people just don't know anyone who's come close to this government. You're absolutely right. Health Ministers are responsible for the responsibility of the entire administration, and the modern - day independent party is not able to compromise. So I think it's very dangerous for people who are going to choose the Independence Party in the next election to expect a change in health matters, to make the declarations of this trio, after they have the dream of working together. With regard to the other question, it's kind of so amazing that you just don't say anything about it. All these children have been in the school system. It is known exactly how many there are and that they will reach out for continued study. It's naturally unannounced - I don't speak of in a time of government, who goes out of his way to mention a new Ministry or Minister of Child Affairs and a Minister of Education, who is in every department. In the press, which is now not a major offense, I feel, is standing very much off the table, and it is unacceptable that in this case there is this disabled child. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u33	A respectable president. We're in 2nd. Funds in the end of a prime season have been very special in many respects. Of course, part of the period has been marked by this epidemic that we have been dealing with, but, fortunately, we see the end of it. It is possible to spend a considerable amount of time reviewing how governments have maintained these issues, i.e. Government. There's a lot of criticism. As a matter of fact, I'm going to say that there are also things that the CDC can be criticized for, but people are trying to do their best, people who are experts, but of course they can totally say if things are right. There's no high-ranking one that can't do that. The funds are being reviewed as it is available, and certain adjustments are made both in part and in part, and in part, and in the form of a new adjustment proposal made here. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson went over. It's interesting, and I'm referring to a word or two. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, son of Thorin, who went over the fact that the Central Party had tried many times to offer suggestions that would have been made to make changes in money and money. It actually describes the atmosphere that exists during the council and how much nonsense it is when the government writes in a government covenant not to promote the council and change things, something like that. It hasn't changed. The only thing that may have changed is that we have been with a very effective government that has been primarily involved in dealing with things rather than offering a vision or policy, but I think it might be difficult for these categories to come together for some vision, so I'm saying it just right now. Another matter that we are considering in the next few days has been revealed that the government assumes to continue working. Of course, we need to make sure that we do not. Here, declarations and advertisements, reelections, say that if you want freedom, freedom of the other and freedom in this, freedom of health care, you have to choose the Independence Party. Yet, there has probably never been a social system in Iceland's health sector as well as an aquifer today, at the invitation of the Independence Party. Let us remember when the show is taken down what really remains. We'll discuss this with you at the same time, and we'll see a number of signs of a certain disturbance ahead. We've been up and up, inflation's up. At the same time, there is a trend toward economic reversal with the arrival of tourists. I hope it's going to start off so slowly and slowly. And by the fall, hopefully it'll be just a little bit more power. But then we have no vision of how the government that is about to enter the next election period, and we naturally have to make the requirement that this vision be made today during the next few weeks here at the council. When it becomes clear that they intend to continue working, receiving support, it is only natural to call for such things. There's construction in Iceland ahead. They need to be built up and built for economic growth, they need to be strengthened, and we need to learn that the most amazing things can happen in our economy, in our environment. Here came an epidemic and put our largest industry on its side. Of course, there may also be problems in nature, so we need to look to what happens if we find ourselves in trouble with our seabed, i.e. The fish farms in the ocean. So, what do we do? We need to expand very much of the basket we have here in Iceland. We need to make sure that in our future teams, or in the direction offered, we are looking to promote innovation and education, not this meaningful talk about the education that is so prominent today in this government, but a real policy, a real response. We need to look forward to the fact that, as we have noted many times, no member of the government seems to be interested in dealing with it, at least not in the educational policies mentioned here, that boys are in considerable trouble at school. They'll have to respond. It's not that we can put 20 kids in a class, call it a school without separation, but then try to make everybody like everybody else in the same box. There are very likely that in these 20 people there are people who want to become traders, sailors, or farmers, others become doctors or teachers or something else, and we should immediately try to see what the minds of our young people are going to do, not try to put them all in the same place that is being done today. That's it. It was a small thing, but it has something to do with the case, so it has to be fixed. We need to take the money for granted. paritaprevir This was Jón Valdimarsson's talk, and he made a change. We need to straighten out these 30 young people as minister of education and the Ministry of Social Affairs dropped into the cold. That's the job. Actually, Mr President, I believe that the social and child-friendly minister is concerned about the new image that he will actively support this and I hope it is indeed, because this is such a case that it is not that there is a political quest or an image but a real need for these funds to help our clients, these good people. I'm going to be glad that according to the modification of the more money on the budget, there is an increase in money in nursing homes or in the nursing room. However, more is needed. And listen, this is a budget bill. There are agreements to be concluded for the future with this enormously important party in our community. The cost of a nursing home is acknowledged. They have to admit that this is a very effective ministry. It is, of course, and I know that those in this sector are not afraid, to set the standards and the like, and, of course, are also required by state organisations. It should not be any different, should be completely the same. If a man has some sort of a tabloid, or something like that in relation to this, I admit I don't know how to do it, then, of course, work in both directions. Of course, it is difficult to see how things have gone during this ideal period because the government groups are different. It is constantly being left behind in some cases, and there is some sort of grayness, a policy that is like a rainy lake or something like that, just gray and rather dull, instead of having policy issues that are obvious and that can work on. More often than not, things don't make it through the council, and there's something to consider, too, if you want to take more years in an environment of inactive government or poorly functioning, I'd like to put it that way. We've got a couple of Senate proceedings down here that aren't supposed to be over. It was shown in a joke that the government was like the waiting party in a frame plan, that everything would be uncomfortable there. Nothing comes out of sense, it's all arranged. Men need to think carefully, I'd say, if they're going to vote for these waiting parties. Hv. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's citizens did well over the Middle Party's vision of this financial bill and it's clear that the government's finances could have been done better for the entire ideal period. Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson was also well aware of how the system works, and the lack of information is placed on the table and that options, if present, are present, which the administrative parties are on their side when deciding which way to go, are also shown to the council members, at least to members of the council. I agree with that. paritaprevir The young woman Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, said that this would help very well. This is something that we need to look into the future, I think, to bring things into the council much better prepared, possibly with a better presentation for the senators before they appear and give them more time. But it's somehow Lenska here in Iceland, and it's been the 12 years I've been sitting at the council, that it's more and less working in a hurry, and hence, there's some difficulty, men make mistakes. Of course, failure is never thwarted, but it can be tried to reduce it. Several factors are listed in the modified section, which is about to add more money. Some are known and are linked to this epidemic, but other factors may be indirectly or not connected and are being tried to plaster things. It refers to a total of 1 billion today, which is, of course, good. It's very good that it finally arrives. But it has been an incredible struggle to get this billion and, of course, have the highest credit for the members of the industry, but also for example, members of the Parliament have, of course, added their weights to this level, in order to open their eyes and react. Mental - health contributions increase by 600 million and should, of course, be welcomed. It is not good how we have maintained that theme over the past few years, and we need to exert ourselves vigorously to develop and find the best ways in mental health. That's where we need to make sure those people who are on the client's side, I'm going to put it that way, and those people who are on the expert side talk and we go into finding as good a system or an environment as we possibly can. These are often terrible diseases, but much can be done to control and heal and improve the environment and make people feel better about life. Of course, we should do it as much as we can, but it takes the will to do so, requiring money, money, experts. We're supposed to educate more specialists in the field of mental - health science, and we're supposed to create some sort of impulse in it. Waiting lists are far too long, and the response, I think, often too late. We're renovating the land reserve and the Red Cross. Here is a contribution to the development and distribution of vaccine to developing nations, of course, to a very good matter, and to the fact that we do not allow ourselves to promote it. But I'm going to mention, of course, that Mr. President, of course, there are 120 million people being placed in a city fund for the bus, 120 million are to be placed in the bus. Is it really that way, Mr. President, that the government fund has taken over driving the bus or coming to his business? Is it a foretaste of this wrong city line that the government fund is going to run a business each year? Is this a foretaste we're watching with those 120 million? This is a similar amount of money to be placed in the bus, and it is needed for these 30 disabled youths to get to the schools they want and need. Here, however, the government intends to take on support from the bus. It is clear to everyone that there is little interest in making use of these transports the way they are. I'm sorry, Mr. President, I'm sorry. This may be possible and may be adjusted in some way, but it needs to be done. Here, too, 20 million are being added to the improved rights care of the disabled, but I further remind those 30 youths that it is estimated that 110 million will be needed in order to help them and bring them to justice. Then we will discuss what is done to begin a job that is good thinking. I hope it works because I've heard, I've been approached by some senators, that there's some fear that this might not exactly happen to people today. Also, we need to know what happens when all these resources expire. They have specific time limits. What happens, e.g. this time of election or September? I don't really remember dates on this thing, so I'm just saying it right out. But it's very important not to be some void, some uncertainty for the individuals who are there. We need to put strength in the process of making jobs. That's what we do by making it easier for the private sector, the companies, the people who are creating something, to create companies that need to be hired. We must have the tax environment so that it is encouraging, not discouraging. We're supposed to keep the support system so strong that it's encouraging, not discouraging, or so complicated that if you have any good ideas, it's gonna need some expertise. We are to encourage pioneers, and we are also to strengthen or encourage all who have good ideas, as I would like to say earlier. Most of all, it would be nice to see a special increase in innovations among women and young people, for I think that is a large group, though the number may not have found the right path. We're supposed to watch it. We've had plenty of opportunities in Iceland and we've shown that, e.g. in the fishing road. Once the fishing road is stable, when it is a large and powerful industry with a lot of resources, then there is a lot of investment in equipment and technology. Thus hundreds of jobs, or thousands, will be employed. There are tremendously powerful companies on the sides of the fishing roads that are producing tools and supplying experiences and selling for billions of dollars and making exports for us by exporting these devices and tools, many of which, in cooperation and in connection with the powerful and excellent Icelandic fishing industry.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u34	Mr. President. We're discussing budgets here for 2021. There are some things I would like to take part in my talk, including transportation, nursing homes, financial neglect, such factors. First, though, I wanted to mention that there is a very useful chapter in the bill that deals with the role of budgets. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ Official financial law has a clear policy on the role and subject of budgetary laws. This includes assuming that all predictable budgets will be provided in financial terms but that financial contributions will only be obtained to deal with costs that were inaccessible to pay money but will show that expenses will fall in the year and that government funds cannot avoid paying them. In this way, budgets are intended only to include the inevitable budgets of the above type, including the effects of new legislation during the year, which cannot be dealt otherwise with under public financial laws, such as the transfer of funds between parties and projects within the same category during the financial year or the use of a reserve fund for the relevant seminary or a general reserve for the increase in expenses. Investments are therefore not intended to meet the expenses of new projects, increased scopes of activity, or the management of individual causes and lawsuits above the set budgets, as such legal recommendations to change the budget should be referred to for the next year's budget. The aim of this procedure is to increase the responsibility of planning, policy development, and financial management within issues of industry and litigation, and to reduce the need and scope of budgetary law. When preparing the bill, it has been emphasized to be acting in accordance with the role of funding laws as defined in the law. The content of this bill is confined almost entirely to funding continued economic measures aimed at dealing with the economic and social consequences of a pandemic crown virus. Mr. President. This chapter raises a question about practice, and I must admit that I have been very thoughtful over a talk. Minister of Justice with a discussion on budget 2022◯226. That discussion took place on March 25 of the past year. That's when they answered. Secretary countering. Þorsteinn Sæmundsson's report on financing to the litigation party on international protection candidates. That's when they say "big." Minister in answer to a question from what. A senator on financing to this suit class, by permission of the president: It is a bit unpredictable and difficult to plan ahead for how many are looking for international protection here. It has been decided to finance the cost of real money rather than overinvolved, and it is therefore difficult to estimate its lengthy budget. Mr. President. These words raise questions; first, at any point, the decision referred to there has been made; and also how it harmonizes with the official financial policy and the direct instructions given on the bill that I was discussing earlier in the law on public finances. Of course, it would be most desirable to have an explanation for the decision just quoted. This is an example of a series of cases that may appear to be under special treatment when it comes to financial decisions. Mr. President. A decision is now made to spend an additional 1 billion nursing homes. In the opinion of a greater proportion of the legal committee, it says, on permission of the president: In her opinion of a new financial budget, the more part discussed the affairs of nursing homes. Even there was a number of them. Consider a recent report on the survival of the households based on the analysis of the 2017-2019 and the first half of 2020. The report noted that in recent years many of the homes have been fired. - This natural problem is a persistent problem, and each year's event is discussed on this point, this problem of business and management in nursing homes. In the year 2019, the combined tail of those who were fired by a loss was just less than a billion years old. However, there is a lack of opinion in the figures where contributions from rural society are listed as earnings of households, as well as annual budgets. - There's a point that, of course, weighs heavily on the report that's being discussed, and it's called on to the head of the staff team who won the report, Professor Gylfi Magnússon, and talked about the Gylf. In the year 2019, only 13% of households reached a positive start without a combustion that some of them receive from rural areas. This discussion raises questions about the future policy barrier in this series, and it is natural and well - known as the fact that the elderly will be increasing in the years and decades to come. Especially will the elderly, the 80s, and the older, be growing very rapidly. This will mean that what is called a nursing weight in nursing homes and other nursing areas will increase. This calls for more staff with special education and makes these institutions more expensive. It must be said, Mr. President, that there is a need for adequate policy, although this billion should be valued. But to be reasonable, the poll says, with the permission of a president: There is too much difference between interpretation and diagnosis of nursing procedures. In particular there is a lack of adequate analysis of the various costs between households. The Ministry of Health has informed the Committee on a number of factors that need to be done better, such as the provision of housing costs and how it falls to the annual budget. It's a natural root language, so to speak. Similarly, the greater part is attributed to the fact that in a few years caring for one's household has become more difficult, and it is important to be able to follow through with more specialized care. It is attributed to the fact that in the past three years, the majority of the items increased in double donations to the households. But what's missing here is policy. It is helpful to have this report on the household expenses and to continue working with the information presented there. This article specifically discusses the cost of housing and how it falls toward the day's pay system. Then there is something else in this subject, and there are requirements for these households. It does not always agree with a picture on the demands, on the other hand, professional requirements - we know the requirements of the surgeon and health care department and the demand - and on these seemingly inadequate days' expenses, in order to be taken into account. If I take it briefly down to the report, there's an extract in the first place. It explained that the report is made up of a so-called task management program appointed by the health - care minister to determine the cost of nursing and to report on the data of the report, i.e. in the hosts' comments we ask. There was a request for the individual cost and income, the services given, and those who accept it, including those who accept it. Gait weight and various variables involved in housing, management, location and other factors. It is attributed to the very basic information of 2020 and the first half of 2020. Then, with the permission of the president, they say: ▪ The diagnosis was primarily given to a day - to - day nursing clinic that received answers from 40 such ones. 19 of them were fired by rural society, but 21 were in company, i.e. of self-employment institutions, private partnerships, or members of society. In general, rural society was much smaller than any other member of society and community involvement in mass space, thus much lower than in a number of nursing homes. The nurses were somewhat different in size. Alone was the most common (83%) but also somewhat private. Three farms are still known but are very few. An interesting point there says that although the short observation period has been made, the population age mix changes somewhat within it. This increased specifically in the oldest group aged 90 years and older, and the mean age increased. It even seemed to be. you show yourself in an increased weight of nursing and thus a rising cost of operating. There's really nothing surprising here. Of course, we are referring to known demographic facts. We're talking about the known facts from nursing that discuss this concept that I've mentioned and is mentioned in these cops I quote, i.e. A nurse's weight. The country's largest population in the coming decades, e.g., is further said to have a significant increase. A double of those aged 80 years and older between 2020 and 2040. Let me mention that here we are talking about real science, which is the demographic science that is very solidly based on population and other data. This increase in the elderly is well - known in the world of these educations, particularly in the growing number of the very old. It's a highly researched phenomenon on a global scale, and when you study these studies, you find that this is a global trend, even for a century. That is absolutely impossible, except that this sort of policy is taken into account. Mr. President. I was going to move on to another point of transportation. There's a special budget of 120 million on the side of the bus, and I have to admit that I'm worried about it, as is the case with others. The speakers before me, and this raises questions about the strange relationship that appears to be between the State Fund and the plans for a so - called city line. So now, no one recommends that public transportation is probably a matter of course, I don't think there's any disagreement on that. On the other hand, we are faced with plans that seem to be highly colored by political views, even if you allow yourself to say a kind of religious stand that appears to be manifest even. in that there are no reasonable budgets for the cost of this project. It has been published, such as 70, 80 billion, 100 billion, and all those discussed in this matter, for example. In the media, a number of professionals have mixed in this discussion, engineers with expertise in transport and economists, and they agree that these figures, in accordance with existing plans, are an underestimation. There is no debate that there is no management plan for this project. Now, Mr. President, in the capital area, there is a project that is facing, which is the construction of the Sunway, which is obviously a lucrative and useful project that will be a natural favor for transportation. It will link the capital area to Western and Northern countries to a far greater extent than today and will further increase the safety of the population in the capital area. It is a habit that this project is not to be attacked without delay. I view it as a bit bigger than the waste of time, but I have to tell them that amateur organizations have offered other suggestions, and I draw attention to them. This organization calls itself an "U."
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u35	Mr. President. It is this way with these funds we're discussing here and their scope that they reflect several things in this present government, which is, for example, a government. Inadequacy of the government and indolence of the highest degree. Secretary of finance to collect when paying dues. As it happens, the four of us last financiers have provided funding proposals that do not require higher taxes, which have been burned to that end. to increase effectiveness in collections when the stress pays, not new fees, but at once. In fact, these suggestions have been taken out of a considerable amount of ignorance, and now I'm talking about actions that would have, for example, been quite unbelievable. contributes to the scope of this bill, i.e. Decisions, wouldn't have had to be so large or great, as it turns out, if men had followed the wise suggestions we've made, including the middle-class people, now several times. It is also noteworthy, Mr. President, that these years are written off in the government's system of collects, in the range of 18 to 20 billion each year. After a great deal of change, the person here received an answer from the Ministry of finance regarding the expected loss of a government fund in advance. In fact, a remarkable few minutes ago, it was found that the Ministry did not seem to have done much research on how much money was floating in the economy that would not come to pay taxes, but it finally answered that it could be about 80 billion. To be perfectly reasonable, Mr. President, this was a response to the time before Covid. But it's all right to review this now, we're breaking out of that situation, and that's exactly what's happened, Mr. President, in the highest court. Secretary of finance that government funds will be visiblely fired by a few more years while the economy and society are recovering from viral replication. This is to be taken up by careful collecting of unstealing matters. It will not help to interfere with the problems now that the government's grants of various ways go by and the companies start to become self-saturated and flammable. The natural thing to do, without being hounded by men, is to watch that this transition is in a way that the government receives what he has, but these numbers are not going to float. I'd like to reiterate what I spoke here on Monday night, that there are groups in the society that the government seems to have forgotten. I cannot help but mention the elderly because at the time, we arranged for a hundred thousand to be given to the middle class. a single payment for the Covid situation and the way Covid has dealt with this group. But it wasn't done at all. There's a story in one of the newspapers today that I thought was quite remarkable, since it's a special report that the growth of pensioners is not surprising at all, says a fine economist who was once a minister in Iceland. I have to admit that it wasn't very scientific because everyone watching population development should know that right now, in those years, it is near retirement age, or pension age, the biggest years of Iceland's history, so to speak. Apart from the fact that Iceland and I live longer, fortunately. So it didn't seem very scientific to me, but it's fine. That's very good. There is something else that I would like to mention, and that are a complex promise of the government to this age group. In other words, there is an estimated increase in the number of nurses that have not been tolerated and there has been a pressure on nursing homes and residence homes for the elderly really much, and at last 15 minutes in election, the government will present with a tiny patch on this sonar wound that is in the business. This billion, which the government has pacified on its own for performing, is likely to be about a third of what is missing. And it has also been observed, Mr. President, that in these trials these institutions have been forced to reduce their service, to reduce service to those living there. It is not normal for people who are involved in business to do this because they narrow down because they are not given the right way. It must also be included in this account, just once, that it seems surprising to everyone that with abbreviated work week, you would need more money to continue a civilian business, no matter where it is, whether it's a nursing home, whether it's in the Land Hospital, whether it's in the police department. And the cost of shift workers seems to have been particularly flat on humans. It should not have come as a surprise to every man that abbreviated week of work would come down pretty hard on shift work. I remember that when I first moved that number into this room about how many employees it takes to cover one day shift and, from 12 hours of shift, it's six and a half person or six and a half status, if I remember that correctly. So as soon as we cut work weeks and cut down shifts, we need more workers to cover every day's shift. This should not have surprised anyone who makes a deal if they had just done their homework and calculated what is needed to fix these things. So we're facing it now and we've been doing it for a few years, and everyone's pointed this out, and that was even so. pointed to this in the results of a fine committee that I sat in my time five years ago and produced about that time, that it was predicted to increase the number of people in my pension and to increase the number of big scores at this time, e.g. Until 2030, 2040. This simply means that there are fewer shoulders that are involved in the employ of ◯ more people who are out of work. If you look a little further over them, e.g. to see that this will make possible harm to societies where there is an increasing number, i.e. that population growth does not go hand in hand or out more than death does, so it does not keep up with it. A fine example of this is Japan. Japan has some 130 million people, but it is predicted that within 50 years, even 80 million people will say: life is impossible for 80 million people to run the society that 130 million people are running. Even if we are not in the same situation, we still have less natural growth, so this trend becomes prominent in our case over the next few decades. This is especially why the Central Party has offered powerful suggestions, such as the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania. of self-rich for this group. We have repeatedly suggested that older ones enjoy that professional income does not reduce pension income. V.E.G. The secretary of finance has made difficult comments about our proposals, but I think it is advisable to anyone who wants to know that when an elderly person has more money in his hands, he spends it in both the living and the service, so that revenue returns to society with its own well - being, with its tax payments or valuable taxpayers, and more. So I think it's very overrated by the highest level. Secretary of the budget that the cost of this kind is likely to cause some financial bonus that is somewhat questionable. Besides, Mr. President, for men to have a chance to work longer, and I last remembered this morning at the bill that I have put forth probably four times that government employees may work until 73 years of age, they choose and they want it and they can do it instead of sending these people out the door in the month that they will be 70 with a head full of experience and knowledge. That has even been true. There are many types of scientists, if we can put it that way, or in many sciences, natural science, and other sciences, where people have done a good job, and when they become 70 years old, they are simply pushed out of the door and not the need for their knowledge and experience and contributions, except in some cases, that these same people are employed as contractors. And what will happen then? It's going to fire up to a hundred thousand bucks. every month. This is what I've called and will call and still call waste. It's a waste of avatar. It's a waste of talent. It's a waste of valuables. It's also a waste because those who work past 70 and/or more, if they choose, of course, pay taxes like the rest of the income they earn so that there's nothing more good in making people work longer than 70. This is precisely stated by the Central Party policy that was introduced at the National Parliament the day we present under the heading of retirement to our lifetime, where we want this process to be defined very accurately, it will be over and over and clear, trusting in the role of each and as the services of this large group, whether it is the state or the insurance agency, which is required to make a thorough review in business, as the report will show. It needs to simplify the principle, and we have suggested that there will be a legal code on the matters of the elderly, now both in the elderly and in the poor, who often do not share much in common and who are not a single host, as has been discussed in politics for a long time. It is out - of - date to argue that the issues of the elderly and the desperate under one premise can be handled, each group is highly variable and intermediate, so that we want to follow the course mentioned earlier trust that this service and the resources and possibilities available to this group are like chain and each chain of that chain opens up and replaces others as far as life goes and as men need a different and possibly greater service. It is also true to point to that, Mr. President, if men are not aware, that there is no disease to age, it is a privilege. And keeping people free, including... by allowing it to work as it pleases, including by taking action as described in the direction I was going over here, on increasing movement, increasing psychology service after retirement in which people are at risk of social isolation, taking special measures to avoid social isolation, and as life passes on, resources, e.g. live where there's clearly no innovation. We now live in it, and for some years we have been doing so when nursing homes in themselves are turning into charities because when people enter a nursing home, they often become seriously ill and require a lot of service. Hence, it is even more serious that the government has not been behind nursing homes as the service gained weight and the number of clients increases. There must be a quick change in policy, and I expect and I sincerely hope that there will be a time when the election will be completed in the fall, when fresh winds will blow over health matters in Iceland, and thereby aging matters so that this community, which I have often said in speeches, will be the most patient group in Iceland, will give much to pass, and it is not to be taken advantage of. The trust they have in society should not be abused. It is to be met with this group, which plays a major role in our living in the modern - day society, i.e. to enjoy life, to enjoy it, and to the opportunities that are present in Iceland. Thanks to this age group, how grateful we are if we are not able to prepare people for a decent life! I'm not going to talk about it if we hold back with the strength that exists in that group. It is simply incredibly sad that there is. We need to make things up, and as I say again, if there had been some of the many suggestions we Middle-Catate have proposed in a budget talk over the past few years, there wouldn't be any need for such handsome funds as this, and we wouldn't have had to take care of all kinds of cuts and problems that we've had to do today. I see, Mr. President, that my time has arrived, although I have much left to say, so I must ask a president to put me back on the rosary so that I can continue my review of these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u36	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss a bill for financial support. It is characterised by the labour market strategy in the state we are living in after a pandemic crown virus and other activities it has followed for over a year in many ways. It has taken a lot of money and additional work for all of us to meet those challenges. I would like to talk at the beginning of my talk about the job side at this point. I was reading and reading a review from the Society of Professionals and the Group of Tourists. As I said in the beginning, all the biggest financial resources requested in the bill are linked to a budget of 2021 labour market resources from the government. In this regard it has been requested that they send in a commission. First, the job market prospects are generally discussed. With President's permission, I'd like to read from the review: It appears that in January of this year, total unemployment has reached its peak after a continuous increase since the epidemic began. The reversal started at the same time as there could be an increased optimism on the economy because of the benefits of vaccine practices and increased awareness of the economic activities of the competent authorities and the national environment, which was a key factor in the company planning and recruitment of employees. The reversal is a testimony to the importance of awareness in the company's business environment, but it is difficult to recruit people when all planning is completely upset, as a means to understand. According to Gallup's survey for SA and Iceland's Summits at 400 largest companies, this trend is likely to continue, but it may mean an increase in recruitment will. - Which, of course, is a cause for joy. In April of this year, one in four employers was able to increase the number of workers over the next 6 months, while less than 15% were observed to reduce the number of workers. More than fewer people will see it coming again, which is a reversal from previous surveys following Covid. The duration of vaccination is likely to be highly effective in this case. [...] As SA has indicated, employers in general have accepted the economic actions of governments. Action, such as the part-time work route and the support of pay on the deadline, has made a big difference, and it can be said that they helped limit corporate bankruptcy during the past year, but they were considerably less than expected at the beginning of the pandemic. The demand for recruitment grants has been quite high lately. More than 9,700 people had been enrolled in the campaign on June 3, mostly associated with tourism, but at the same time only about 2,700 jobs had been managed through the campaign. Thus, in spite of historical unemployment, the list of unemployment seems reluctant. - It's a worry and a strange situation in itself that there's trouble hiring people of unemployment records. This has been quite a part of the discussion in these last days, and it seems who it is. Some people say that it does not mean moving people to work on something that they do not like to work in and out of the streets, and in some ways they can agree with it. Yet, in such a situation, it is difficult to choose employment that you often have to do what is necessary. That's why I think it's kind of bad evolution if it's becoming a fact. So I'll go on a little bit, then I'll say here: A large number of jobseekers have refused jobs according to job drivers in many countries or in other ways showed apathy in their jobs. Have employers in some cases reported the incident and the relevant jobseekers were killed by the unemployment registry. This appears to be a general problem and a number of examples from the employers, SA and SAF as well as from the media. SAPH and SAF encourage the announcement of such events. - It's the same thing and it's not good. This is followed by failure: It has also been noted that the recruitment process is slow. There have been a number of companies who have invited employees for an interview through the campaign that turns out to be the case from unemployment record, e.g. Because it has not been determined otherwise. This means delays. Then some company hired employees through the campaign, but they have received a review from a labour agency where the Agency did not guarantee that employees met the qualifications for recruitment. This can cause damage to companies and discomfort to employees and possibly to them. Paraphrase. Thus, there is a trend toward starting work that seems to be lacking, which severely impairs the effectiveness of measures. - It's coming up right now, and it doesn't raise optimism that people are ready to respond to the circumstances that are right now. In view of motivation and effectiveness, measures must be taken. It should be noted that unemployment insurance in this country is among the most generous and less motivated to return to work here in the country than in most other countries, both due to a huge improvement and a huge tax burden. Government policies due to the pandemic, such as increased improvement and prolongation of the period of improvement, should not provide permanent negative results in the labour market, but predicts that unemployment will become more and more persistent than expected before the outbreak. Care must be taken to ensure that resources are designed, so that they do not include unwanted motivations with the related costs for government funds and society. Then I can think of a phrase that I have sometimes reviewed here: What can I do for society? Which is a good thing to remember in this situation, but not, what community would do for me? Because our attitude is also important to all of us, what we stand for in our community. So I encourage people to think this way too. Because there's a tax and tax environment mentioned, we've always felt that income taxes are way too high or that taxes are usually involved in employment, especially when it is high enough to get close to half of the income. Then it will not be very encouraging for those who want to tear in income hard and make their own years well so that they will be financially independent when they get up and build a family, and so on. Work hard and work hard or earn a lot of money is a source of encouragement. It is important that the tax environment be such a source of encouragement, not as the worry in this text, for people to be more useful in their unemployment. But this is a sensitive discussion and is to approach it with respect. But if we talk about social health and health in general, the phrase remains: Work is noble. Those who can work are encouraged to win. Because this is a review from both the Associations of Employment and the Association of Tourism, this is a chapter from tourism: A service service is getting started faster than its prospects indicated about two or three months ago. It is primarily a decision to grant vaccinated tourists from non-Sengen countries to enter the country, but the United States has, in particular, accepted because of these changes. Europe's market is moving slower and seems closer to what could be expected. - The European market is said to be taking over later this year. European tourists are not expected to attend the country until August/September. As a result, the accounting status is still difficult to assess. The number of books in August and September is large, which are difficult to determine whether will eventually turn in. These include groups books and travel - office books, as well as books that were taken from the previous year. Accounting deadlines have been reduced to about two weeks, thus reducing the sense of awareness and making it difficult for you to assess the books. Mishre development in travel markets on either side of the ocean makes companies in a very different position. Companies with connections and experience in the U.S. market have an advantage while [...] everything associated with group travel is much later in progress than for those who serve on their own roads. - That's interesting. Later, says: ▪ It seems now that predictions for visitors over the year could be made. However, this is based on the fact that the European market is responding in August and September. For the predictions to work, August and September need to make the most effective convention - it is clear that the number of people in October and November will be considerably less than August and September. - There's a question of the situation. I've been thinking about it in the last few months that we've been in this situation, whether the world will be the same by Covid or whether things will change. It might as well turn into people's travelers, as in the rest of their lives after this experience, that people's travel may change and even decrease. But time will tell. ▪ To say this, it is very important to mention that books are out of control. The company has several other problems that could hinder growth. For instance, it has been difficult to hire employees and thus difficult to deal with demand. - Here again, it's not that simple to hire people, although unemployment is a lot. Then it says: Despite a number of government resources, the economic situation of many companies in tourism is very narrow. Some have had to put up with over a year's pay - and - a - year commitment to the Covid situation on top of their previous investments. Thus, many companies are badly damaged; prospects are vague, debts have piled up, and it is difficult to hire experienced employees. Business unions have been released by the elimination of the experience population from both the country and commercial organisations abroad. It will take a considerable amount of time to rebuild the dragnet. - I'm sure you're absolutely right. There's something else I wanted to mention here in my talk because we're talking about earning money for a government fund, which is the remarkable export of unmanned fish that has grown much over the last two years. I have to say that I've been worried about it, and I've been talking about it, and we've also discussed this on a professional committee, that the fish industry at home, I'm talking about a fishing business, who's counting on buying fish a lot on the markets, is in trouble. In this situation, though, because the global market prices are beginning to improve, the price of fish markets has increased. They also play into the fish industry that buy untrained fish from abroad. It's probably a good market, a cheaper labor force, and something like that. But what I would like to see about the sum of this raw material, from the fish here at home, is that these figures appeared black in whites, whether this makes a positive contribution to the population. I don't think so. This is also how it can be viewed, since most of these productions, which, in part, earn fish from the sea with their produce and purchases on markets, are out of the country. This will make it difficult to ensure that they can continue to function if this becomes possible, that the export of unmanned fish is growing so much. So it needs to be completely clear what this will be like for the community as a whole. Of course, sailors celebrate the rise of fish. And so do I. But it is also a question of whether this increase in unmanned fish, export, would reduce the price of markets if sought to unwind it and more of these fish were worked here at home. Such a situation needs to be taken seriously. This has been responded in the early stages. We remember that after the collapse of the economy, expenses were set for exporting unmanned fish. I'm not necessarily calling for that option to be taken up, but at the very least it will be viewed as the government's means of value.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u37	V.E.G. President. As the president said, we will continue a discussion on the budget. I'm going to lay off the point that was discussed here, about the nursing home and their status. I'm even going to go over a little bit about how we're going to deal with the problem, because it's huge. Then, in particular, I mean the challenges we face with regard to design, how we are going to be men of both nursing and living homes. First, though, I would like to say that we have proposed more than 20 changes in this terms in terms of a number of budgets that have been provided. I think it's important to know that they're all made up, but they've all been dropped. It's probably a class line that explains it a lot more than the contents of the motion. If we talk about nursing homes, they're facing serious problems. One billion were taken up to meet a relapse that has remained in the past few years. That will probably not address the problems we face for the future, i.e. The business problem. We offered two suggestions for the nursing crisis at the last assembly, which was 800 million that we discussed. That proposal was entrusted, but it was incorporated. I'm sorry it ended that way. We must keep in mind that nursing homes are a very important support in the Icelandic welfare system, and this is why these suggestions were offered. It is interesting to review a report published by the National Review Board that points out that nursing management is very heavy. Therefore, it should not have surprised the government that it would need to be handled. It can be said that since Iceland's health insurance decided to change the methodology of spending funds for these nursing homes, the propaganda has increased quite seriously. It was really done without talking to or checking with the nursing homes and the operators there. I mention, as an example, the company's organization for welfare services and the Union of Icelandic rural society that repeatedly pointed out that it was not working well enough and that it would not really matter. As soon as we discuss increasing numbers of nurses, there is also a need to secure the business. To be effective in securing the business, we also need to consider how we expand our professional education within these households. In recent years, the head of the health care organization has been eager to point out that there is a lack of hospital staff in homes, even in hospitals and clinics, and that there is a lack of substance in this regard. It has certainly been necessary to dismiss individuals who have a great need for service because there is a shortage of qualified employees. This, of course, is because money is missing to cover business, including professionals who are trained. We cannot accept the fact that sometimes a lot of money is being inserted without some complete vision being ahead of us. In this connection, I would especially like to mention a nursing home in the country. We know what a relative has had in these homes that when they say goodbye to this life, the members of the family have about Three days to clean up the room and clean up. As a result, this situation is so intense that it is due to a serious need because of the payment of each one's uterus. How important it is that nursing homes are the best of new ones! I've heard people discuss this, and people who work at the nurses' homes and people are sorry it had to be like this. At times, it has been thought that some form of exchange should exist in nursing homes, that they are divided into wards, so that this does not have to happen at this rate. I'm pretty sure this should be possible if we have more space on the ground. We also know that it is often women who work in those homes. Many of them are older and have to contend with a number of musculoskeletal problems. As a result, they find it a little difficult to do full - time work. Despite all of this, we have been working to analyze the problem, but we may still be at the beginning of it. We were glad to be much farther. Then I am particularly involved in the education of health professionals and nurses, and especially the education of social workers. It has been observed that those living in nursing homes, the old people, have become more harrowing than they had some years ago, so social workers may not have the education that is actually needed in order to care for these most vulnerable older people. Therefore, there is an even greater need to increase the number of medical staff. Now it is beginning to study for a sick patient who wants to get a deep order toward a nurse, who is all very good. I repeat, maybe it'll work out perfectly. A group was started to wonder at each stone in terms of education and additional education that could lead to an increase in the number of graduated medical personnel. This is suggested in a number of suggestions that should cover a ten - year period, the intense task of ten - year - olds. I'm going to let myself go here for the basic suggestions, but the main point is that we need a scholarship to unskilled employees. I'd like to go into this because it's mostly about crowns and change, how we can live up to such a plan, and put it in context of the growing population of those who are going to need to stay in nursing homes or services at home. All of this goes hand-to-hand. A scholarship must be offered to unskilled workers for caring, and this needs to be a source of encouragement. Clearly, we need to take a little larger steps to answer that call. It also calls for strengthening those who want to become social workers. Similarly, it must be a good incentive for us to study it. In our neighboring countries, unmanned people working in nursing homes and home - service homes are offered strength even to change their assignment. We can learn from this. Also, it is important to make sure that hospital staff who have to take on increased responsibility can study properly, and that is what I was studying just now. I think it's on its way, and it seems to me that it's going well. I'd like to say, though, that even if we are able to do a good job in a nurse's education, it won't change that we'll always have to support the study of sick people and carers. It's boring to say, but it's just that nurses may not have as much opportunity in nursing homes because they have this kind of education because all this education is equally important. In nursing homes and hospitals, it must be clear, if we can say, each area of work should be done, and therefore it is necessary to make sure that there are well - defined areas in which the patient needs to be used. These suggestions discuss the need for housing, and again and again it is about dollars and pennies. At times, people need to go away from their homes so that they can get their secular work out of their homes, thinking that they are being given the strength of rurals to high school out of a certain area of high school. The other end of this is the pressure for those serving in nursing homes and hospitals and taking in study. In order to reward the employees who take care to guide them, financial resources must be available. There may be pressures that come with considerable responsibilities, so this need to be very clear. They're talking about ensuring a medic's position. As a result, I looked at a report prepared by a surgeon on minimum goals. It seems to me that we're not doing enough with regard to design standards in nursing homes. We'd have to make sure it's done well. Here's a report I'm going to find, and I'm going to go right into the outcome phase. There's a little bit of pills, and they can never be handled properly in the IIlium speech chair. It's better to read through the results. This is the case with nurses or professional staff. I imagine hospital staff and sociologists at the same time even professional therapists and physical therapists and such employees. The results indicate that the proportion of these workers is lower, i.e. There are fewer care periods of time, and this increases the risk that problems are related to RAI products all based on, yes. The minimum class ratio and the number of carehours are known to be identified. I know that it may sound a little tough for us to discuss these matters for hours and even minutes, but somehow, even though I know well that no one working in these households is thinking of hours or minutes. The needs of the people are always reputed above other things. At least I haven't gotten to know it any other way. But it turns out that the percentage of nurses and professionals is very different between nursing homes. The same is true of the number of daily care periods, the term used for this, on the population. As I said, it's more likely that the quality pointers will come out badly, and various surfaces are specified in what I'm not going to go over. There's one major aspect I think I'll still have to report, but there's an increased chance of symptoms of depression. There must be some of these, and the information that many in this house have heard about is that we are very effective in administering antidepressants in nursing homes. What I'd like to say with this is that it's not just out in the community, if you can put it that way, which is how we're very diligent in prescribing drugs instead of doing a real service that costs more, including professional care. Rather, we can discuss psychologists and negotiations with them, or we can lack them. This situation is also in the nursing home, and it is related, of course, that we need help in the nursing home. I think it's a serious situation, but at the same time it's not that complicated to solve it. It's certainly gonna take time, but everybody seems to agree on that, if I take it together, because it's shown in the results of this group, which was pretty well put together, where it's specifically stated. This is what I find most striking in these results, i.e. The spiritual well - being of older ones, even of those in nursing homes whom we would think there is something to be done. That's not good enough. We are the submarines of other nations when it comes to the percentage of professionals in institutions. That's what we're talking about, 2018 of Economic Institute, and that's where we have to intervene. It's gonna cost us money, but I hope we can get this done and we should have done it by now. The report was published 2020. We could have started right away, the foundation is ready, and this is also in line with health policy to 2030.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u38	Mr. President. Without planning to extend the discussion much, I'd like to talk to you for a second. A senator on the point that I think is most important in this budget, i.e. that in the bill, 1,000 million are expected. K. An additional supply to the nursing homes and an additional 300 million proposal is proposed by the committee. If this is in context of Professor Gylfi Magnússon's report that the nursing home is held in place over a period of three years, taking into account the development of the rural communities, there were 3.5 billion, i.e. approximately 1.2 billion each year, I ask if the senator feels that this is not a major concern in this business and whether it is not being met in large ways. As indicated by the Committee's opinion, the annual pay line is being increased by 1 4% and 800 million, respectively. K. additional input to correct the situation as a result of changes in the salary and watch setting. I'd like to hear a thought. It's for a senator. The majority of the committees are making significant changes on the other hand, following the report, facing the need to do better. I'd like to hear a little more of the senator's viewpoint on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u39	V.E.G. President. I have a question for this 4% increase in the day line, so I have to answer this. If the increase occurs at a point when the community in welfare services has been criticized, and we've got to hear a welfare committee, it may be worth it to some extent, but I don't think so. One billion may sound very good. It's between periods of time, I'm not going to belittle it. But what I would like to see is that we look further. Then what? How, then, will we face this? All my speech went through it. How will we meet the challenge of caring for our needs? It's some time, I'm not gonna belittle it. That's a four-day raise. How long will that last? How long will it take? When did we stop letting it follow a normal standard? What has happened since then? How have older people deteriorated? What have they called in the nursing homes? Well, definitely more professional education. We are subject to the percentage of neighboring nations in terms of professional training. I don't think we're looking at the overall picture in this package. Although it's all about the kroner and the pen, this proposal that we're discussing here, I feel like there's a lot of lack in the discussion so that things are put in context.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u40	Mr. President. I agree with what. A senator, of course, needs to think the whole thing over, to think further. But I reiterate what I said in the past, that when you look into this business year, which these funds really do, it's almost a valley of three years. True, only over the average of 1,300 million were reported, while the average was about 1,200. I'd like to allow me to doubt that it's the general rule of government management that people just come up on a dot and stick in this way to the figures they present. There's a whole different matter again, and I know that me and the senator agree, that we need to start considering the policy of older people in a different way than we have so far. We need to start looking much more to self - control in nursing homes. We need to start looking to factors far more than a nursing home. We need to look at services such as to form Eden policy, etc. But I'd like to mean, and I think there's a good reason to say it here in the General's symposium that it's meeting these direct financial expectations that the report points to the need to solve. But I agree with that. In fact, it is stated in the committee's opinion that in the long run, this is not a solution. There we need to continue to improve and to improve, and I am convinced that these matters will arise when we discuss elections in the fall and that there the political parties will return to voters what course they will have in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u41	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. I want to get this straight. We're arguing that the final three years are closing in. [[Take it up to this year?]] Three years later? If that's what we're doing, I'd like to argue that the rooster's been here long before that, and then we're gonna get together. So we're meeting some of it, but we're not meeting him, there's a big difference. We look forward to a growing number of people needing a nursing home. We may not agree completely on this, and I want to go further. But okay. We agree that we need to start thinking about our policy, and I want to do more than that. That's all there is to it. We know what we're facing. We know that more and more are coming in each stream of years, growing old. What I'm saying is that we need to take the course because it's in the water. I know that there is supposed to be a particular policy on aging, so to speak, and I hope then we can go to a nursing home as a home. I find that there is very often a lack of social vision, usually in everything we're talking about, especially because we're discussing people's homes. Sometimes I would like to talk about a community home rather than a nursing home because it is just a home. As long as we do not succeed in making sure that people get into our homes, the situation will be as sad as it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u42	Dear President. There are so many things to take into account that I don't really know where to begin, but I guess it's best to start at the beginning. [[Up front.]] Yes, as the Song of Vale says, she was absolutely right, probably. Let's start with the big picture, the overall picture as it appears in a committee program, a larger part of the budget that is signed by the five agents of the greater part, but not the government position, because they don't see it quite the same way. In the opinion of the greater part, it says that the results of this case were handled by the President's permission of the funds: ▪ The anniversary of the year has been evaluated. Money was approved by 326.1 billion dollars. [ Picture Credit Line on page 24] - It's an enormous amount of tail, but he's got some explanations. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - and - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Here's an interesting statement. It is true, but it could be associated with so much more, for rather than being spoken of by this bill's spending effect, it could be said that the net effect is an increase of 22.7 billion bridges to 21.3 billion. This, however, is not in general done when we consider the actual effects of various laws and actions on income or financial expenses. This is likely to be primarily supported by the fact that it may be difficult to determine exactly what is involved, e.g. With case sheets, e.g. by reducing the failings of older citizens, like I'm getting a little more involved in this context afterwards. It may be difficult to calculate the exact number. Of course, economics is not accurate science, and just no science says at all, some say, even something like law or such articles. Nevertheless, the effect is known to be present. Then the example of older citizens and the failing of their terms. When the state maintains a policy that greatly reduces the ability and will of people to continue working, what about those who have reached a certain age but who might like to earn more income, it is to be overlooked that if these experienced people worked more, created more valuables, were paid for, it would be so much to come to the State in the form of increased tax returns. Instead of viewing the overall picture, however, it is considered a mere expenses, clean cost for the State to reduce the decline. Of course, these negative impulses are seen more. They draw e.g. people's savings, the ability to save when saving are excessively impaired. In other words, Mr. President: The government preserves and in many cases involves action that involves negative motivation, but the cost of motivation or what the State might receive is not taken into account. Sometimes it is so far as the government's view seems to be that all money in the country is really property, just a question of what the government should give people of the money they have earned. Thus tax declines are discussed, as if it were a gift for working people to keep behind a little more of their income. There are countless examples of this: I'm not going to spend much time on it, but to calculate tax losses as a clean loss does not really provide the right conclusion because tax reforms produce positive motivations for work, increase in wealth, increase in consumption, pay of valuable taxes, a lot of taxes, and a lot of government pay. That is why I pay attention to human beings in their plans, and when they decide how society should govern, totally ignore the overall picture, but here it is not. This figure assumes that 2.4 billion will be met in the form of additional taxes, probably because it was relatively easy to estimate that number, 2.4 billion, and, of course, because it reduces the total amount at the expense of this bill. But it also says: ▪ At a convention, 13.2 billion dollars are weighed. improved recovery from reassessment of the cost strategy of action already planned in budgets. In addition to reevaluation of other factors, which account for more than 6 billion dollars. A better supply is now expected to reach a limit of 328 billion. or 10.5% of GDP (VLF). The reason for this reevaluation of the cost of previous budget measures is especially so that measures are not as effective as expected. This was true of some of the biggest cases presented, especially at the outset, and praised how much money they cost or how much money they had in this process, that they were not all very new. You can now, for example. Regarding the share loan that the government presented as progress, note that it seems to be difficult for people to get it. You hear stories, especially from the district, that young people who are applying for these loans and trying to get their own housing, not getting answers, even to the point of losing their home because they are sold to someone else. I hope they're trying to make things right. Of course, for you to be reasonable, you cannot always predict the best resources you can get, and in these circumstances there were some steps you needed to take. Nevertheless, there were some cases where, in my opinion, people could tell themselves that the funding could be better managed, made more effective by other measures, which are out of some extent out of the content of this case. Of course, the presented issues include an additional significant addition to the vast angle that was already present. All the nine budget teams presented here are factors that could be predictable in the last budget and, of course, quite strange that not all men have just completed it then and added to the budget at the time. Perhaps there was some incentive to cut back a little from the first presentation of the budget and to add them even now. Perhaps they imagined that it would be good to add expenses here and in a closer line of elections, I don't know, but most of those terms were supposed to be predictable, and the government should have included them in the budget itself. So now the Hall will be, in addition to this, and when all is taken into account, about 328 billion dollars. or 10.5% of GDP. By nature, land production is much more, much higher than the government's expenses, so it's a dozen percent of the government's expenses, not just the cost. The projections: This projections about 10.5% angle to national production - ◯er within the limit of a current financial policy where it was estimated that the balance of the state funds could become 9% of VLF... to the point that even this updated strategy will not pass and the crew will be more successful. But how was it that the State could now run for hundreds of billions of dollars, to cope with the economic effects of the modern - day crown virus, especially? This is especially due to the actions that were under attack a few years ago in the long term of the Kingdom of 2013-2016, where very radical political action was taking place. That action did not come about by itself. They were measures based on radical logic, on doing what was needed in the present situation, doing what would be effective, and securing the interests of society. It was successful to the point of no state, at least not in the latter period, has reached as rapid and as much economic reversal as Iceland because of this operation, which now enables governments to support themselves by measures to meet the economic impact of the Korean virus, to add new expenditures in this bill, and, of course, now proclaim one and another in the future of elections. Governments often go far from trying to mark what they even define as gifts. In fact, the travel check was known to be useful mainly for gas stations and fast - food stops, but it was an excellent operation; it was important to help travel. The name was suddenly changed to government travel, perhaps showing a little attitude at least Governments to the wealth of government, in some way, give to taxpayers. Of course, taxpayers had already paid for it and received it back a little, but it was a gift. Sadly, it has been a dominant attitude, but it is in my mind that money is not viewed as the primary property of people but as the natural destination of all money in the government box, and it is only a question of how much people can keep, or how much gifts they receive from the State. Let's just leave it to the overall picture, about the survival after this bill is done here. Then I'm going to move on to a particular team of the bill and start with the nurses because it has something to do with another big subject that this community, this government, I have to say, has been in some trouble in recent years. The nursing home has been very numerous throughout the country in severe financial problems, and it is laid upon them a great deal of responsibilities. There has been a legal arrangement for having a right to a certain type of service, and homes need to render that service. But the State has not been prepared to finance this to the point that the ministry can be fully accomplished. Thus, nursing homes have either been expelled with a tilt or had to rely on support, for example from rural communities. It's only a matter of how these cases have developed in the past few years but of having a connection with at least one of them. To some extent, what at times seems to be an hostility from the government, this government, the highest. Health Ministers, to independent institutions, independent members, and independent health professionals, since the problem has not just recently been established. This is precisely what happened in the majority opinion that in 2019 C.E., the mother of these nurses was already a billion dollars in that year. This was examined and reviewed back and forth, and everything was more or less available or should have been done with the last budget, but not with the measures that were needed but with staff and staff of these nursing homes remained in doubt. So determined was the government not to add to the necessary financial work. All members of the EEA met with members of the Commission as one of the Central Party's proposals to support support their efforts to handle this problem. In fact, the same thing happened the year before, as we noted here, they also became aware of the problem. The same was true, however, every member of the board decided that the Central Party's proposal to add, but they're now replacing it on a budget bill. Then I'm gonna move in on the land hospital coverage. They now know from political talk and news, actually as far back as you can remember, that economic problems in the Land Hospital are not entirely new. However, this has been true as a former surgeon, and actually the present assistant at the highest level. A health minister pointed out in his day, several years ago, that there can be an endless improvement in health care resources without any help, even harm if the system is not corrected. Now, natural years after a year's pay to the Land Hospital has increased. But there's absolutely no need to improve the system itself, and then I'm talking about the health system all over it. Instead, governments have been continuing to push the whole system into the Land Hospital, I tell you all, there are exaggerations, but to push an ever larger part of the system into the Land Hospital and that the hospital needs to be on the Circle Course. Only one government agency and the state shall be on Ring Lane, says the system. This government has certainly followed the goal of packing everything together, so that even free organizations that have greatly benefited society for years and decades, communities such as the cancer community, U.S., countless such societies, are not welcome to this anymore. All of this will be expressed under the Kingdom, with the results that we see in each case after another, the screening language to form recently. Mr. President. I'm not finished with my medical coverage and what you can read from this bill about its development. [[The president calls.]] I may need to give a second talk, with permission of the Supreme Court. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u43	Mr. President. I'm going to continue here, with my speech about billing for financial support this year, the last bill of this government that attracts government's affairs. I'm only going to direct my case to the Land Hospital. We've discussed something in this discussion, and I pointed out that there was a state of discouragement on the part of the government in solving the nursing homes' problems. The government spoke beautifully of these matters in its government covenant, that they would improve the nursing arrangements, and that they would improve them in all ways, but little has happened in those areas. True, money is placed in building a new nursing home, which is a fine price, but this home also needs to be run. However, the government has not realized that. That is why we face this great problem. This is an accumulated problem that is urgent. During the last yards of this terms, the government will bring up a budget of $1 billion. to improve the situation, which is temporary and conditional. It will not permanently solve the problem. The problem must be resolved permanently, and it is clear that the government does not have the courage to do so. I'm just gonna come into the hospital for a minute. The land hospital is our largest and most important medical institution, and it has to appoint outstanding employees who perform unselfish work each day and usually under difficult circumstances. A lot of discussions have developed about the hospital's problem, and the problem has a wide variety of factors. We have discussed this often within the budget panels during the season, and we have repeatedly been given the hospital and the Department of Health at our meeting to discuss how we can reach the angle of the hospital and take practical measures, which eventually take the natural bite of the ministry. The bottom line is that the hospital and its services are growing faster than budgets are expected and this, despite the expected actual physical growth of 1.8% each year, i.e. automatic increases in budgets to the Hospital each year, approximately 1.8% because of the hospital's cost and management. The hospital has taken on new projects that have failed to be followed by financiers and that should be kept in place by health authorities, for example. not removed from so-called efflux problems. He's still there, and he's very expensive. There are some who have been seeking medical treatment, cannot go home, and who need other alternatives. But there is no reason to keep them in the most expensive deliberation that is natural at the Land Hospital. There are people who should be in nursing homes. Of course, this requires a lot of money and has not yet arrived. Then, in 2015, complex collective agreements were made with doctors who have been difficult to assess. It's a nice deal for the health system in itself, I think, but the costs were underestimated. Sadly, we find ourselves in a small way that we underestimate the cost of commitment when it comes to trying to solve collective agreements. Closely, there is thebbreviated workweek - which has been listed here and is the best part of it, especially for those who work in shift work because shift work is extremely critical and can be difficult - but it did not include any financial support. It's gonna cost you. There are a number of staff needs to be increased; police and nurses, these shift workers. There has been no financial support, however, and there has really been no calculation of the cost. Similarly, the agreement with doctors made in 2015 is that the hospital has never received enough money to cover the total cost of the contract. Of course, it is urgent that we all have the advantage of preparing appropriate medical staff and making sure that there is adequate care at any given time. One of the biggest challenges is the hospital's carer. The health authorities have not really produced any programs to deal with them. It's just that it has to be said at the moment. One of the operations required to attract nurses to work was the Hikla project, where nurses received certain stress payments for their work. However, it was down to the point that this important experiment never really reached far enough. There is a great shortage of nurses at the Land Hospital, and many departments are subject to it, so we know that nurses spent a long time with the government, many months, and nothing worked on it. It was clear that the agreement on the part of the government was limited. Mr. President. State funds, governments, and governments must have a realistic discussion with the Land Hospital on solutions. The same thing is in this budget here, and this practical conversation is missing with the nurses. They have complained about nonverbal communication and other problems when it comes to solving the problem. This can be carefully transferred to the current crisis of the Land Hospital. This realistic conversation is always missing. Let us not forget that the Landsspike is mainly an emergency hospital and the nature of the service the hospital provides is that it is unpredictable. Since humans do not know how much service they must render, they do not know exactly how much it will cost. Thus, it can be said that it is not good for the hospital to be on a regular budget. This is something that needs careful planning and trying to have a conversation with the managers about how to handle these matters best so that we do not always need to discuss it with the hospital managers every year and the next one, etc. It is always the same when meeting with the hospital officials, a constant tail that is being tried to recover and cope with. So naturally, we know that the emergency room can't shut down when the budget is finished. So this is where we need more flexibility. Health management will continue to increase over the years as well as with the nation's increasing life span. We need to have effective service when it comes to the health system and to review these matters with the rulers of the institutions we trust and have done well. [[The president calls.]] But the responsibility is primarily the State and the government in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u44	Mr. President. In my final talk, I spoke something about the problem because it has not been met with the elderly as a significant part of this government during its time, and everyone is aware of the problem in the medical system. There's nothing to do with these extras. I was looking at a loose comparison, and will publish it over the next few days, on the number of waiting lists after several common measures between October 2017 and January 2021. The comparison is striking in all the most common measures, i.e. lens replacement surgery, cardiac surgery, coronary intervention, pelvic surgery, hysterectomy, chest tightness, chest structure, etc. The waiting lists have multiplied, and there is no attempt in this financial bill to increase money into the health system. If we were to take cataract surgery, for example, they were in a very good way. Then there were private people in a town that basically depended on it and was responsible for the operation and did quite well. Then, like other things, it was torn into the State with the silent approval of the Independence Party. It is by pure contrast, Mr. President, that the Independence Party is almost like a passenger in this crumbling left green against the health system. And to think that the Independence Party sees that, first of all, there are no personal actions in this country. Rather, people from the country in the Covid epidemic are being sent away, and then the waiting list is longer, and there is no talk to independent experts. Domus Medical, an almost 50 - year - old institution, has been sewn up so that it will likely close. And the Independence Party watches this without moving a muscle or a team. The voters of the party must ask themselves, " Is the course of health care care or is it usually a matter of health care policy?'And if you want anyone to think about it, who wants to think about the inadequacy of the party to deal with the legal rights of health matters? ' It's not just there, Mr. President, that the voters of the Independence Party must be in doubt about their party. I'd like to advertise the Independence Party's policy on security and defense. As it happens, very recently a new U.S. Secretary of Foreign Affairs, known as Tony, was here in the United States. He stopped here for a few days for a meeting in the Arctic Council. Mr. President. Now I have to tell you a story about Gulli and Tony. So they had a meeting, the foreign minister of Iceland and the U.S. Secretary of State. To be honest with you, the Iceland State Minister has had time to explain to his U.S. colleague the Independence Party policy of safety and protection. I hope that Gulli has been able to explain to Tony why the Icelandic government's independent people turned down $14 billion in dollars to help rebuild the airport in Keflavík. So it is that the Keflavík airport has a standing in the U.S. defense system called the hard - cut Icelandic airport to ride, i.e. that when circumstances arise, the airport is ready to accept a flight that is devoted to changing defense situations. I would have liked to be a dead fly on the wall, as the woman of the north said, when Gulli explained to Tony the Independence Party policy of Defense and Security and explained to him why the Icelandic government, with the Independence Party or the Foreign Minister of the Left Green, refused to take $14 billion for building on Southnes. This was a provision last year, if I remember correctly, when a job situation on the Southnes was even more serious than it is now, and even more drive to do something about the business. But the left-hand minister said, "No, thank you." We're not taking this money. We're against green money. I say again, What should the lndependence Party's supporters hold of their party, which some of whom have supported for a long time? What will they think? Because it's a statement, not to accept money from the Manning Fund of the Atlantic Community for needed building up in the airport in Keflavík, but to say, "No, thank you, we're not going to take this money. That's a statement. Now I'm still going to remind you of the results of this bill we're going over, and I'm going to ask people to figure it out and wait for it to happen. A president will also consider whether or not there will be about 14 billion in the results in this bill. I'm next sure they'll find out, and the highest. The president also looked it up, that this amount of money, the 14 billion that was to be used in projects that would have created 600 jobs in construction hours, 600 jobs. And we're talking about going down to an acceptable number takes a long time for unemployment. It's about 9% now. But the Independence Party said, "No, thank you. We do not receive green money from the Americans. These projects from the south would have produced a future job, Mr. President. But the Independence Party, the Foreign Minister of the Left Green, said, "No, thank you. We don't need that money, we don't want 60 future jobs, we don't need 600 jobs to build up. For good reason, this government has always been called the government of the lost, since there was an opportunity. There was the opportunity to get things better, to get new money into the economy, to give 600 jobs for a while, 60 jobs permanently. But the Independence Party said, "No, thank you. I hope to the highest. The minister of state has been able to explain to his colleague why this was so, how it was. I also hope that maybe with his acquaintance with Tony, he can prevent this from damaging us into the future so that the Americans will snap their hands and think twice before they have any money here for Iceland's government and left green foreign ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u45	V.E.G. President. We are discussing funding, in view of the situation in which we are in which we are in the case of Covid, the job position, the opportunities we have to deal with, and what we need to do. I discussed it here at earlier levels to include small and medium-sized enterprises, many of which have severe problems, such as tourism companies. We've talked a lot about it during this terms in my category, cutting down the insurance fees in handsome. It is a major part of an enterprise's business, and especially of its medium-sized enterprises. Because I'm talking about taxes, sometimes it's been discussed on days, and many times it's the need for the income tax system to be work - inspiring. That has not been the case for some reason. The tax system is now changing, and this is beneficial for those with less income, those in the lower income groups. They are being met, and it is good. Then when the income comes up to a certain amount, the income tax will go up. It's always felt like - and it's grown - don't be a work environment. Because we're talking about unemployment, that we want more people on the job market as we do, that it's not so easy to get people to work in the labour market, as stated in the accounts of the Associations of Employment and tourism, it's a question of whether the tax system could not be viewed as an advantage for people to work rather than abdicate, although, of course, people have to accept the kind of work that is the best they can get. I totally agree that you don't work at anything, even though I've never turned it down if--in fact, I've never been out of work but I've done all kinds of work. That the tax system is such that people are not really responsible for being diligent in earning money. When the tax system is taken, nearly half of the pay when there is a certain amount, one starts to ask himself: " Is it just as good to take it slowly? These are often the people who are setting up roofs over their heads, forming homes, young people. As a result, in my mind it is not the correct message that the tax system is not a workaholic. We've got our policy list in the Central Party to consider this very seriously and talk about it as a way of creating a work-wieldy tax system. But only for now. Under this program, there have been a considerable discussion of their nursing homes, their positions, how many of them have been in trouble over the past few years, and have called on the government to meet the problem. Many of them are giving up and coming, we can say in the arms of the State, those who are not in the state. That can hardly be a good conclusion. All I want to do is cut down on the information given by the Association of the Enterprises in the welfare services of nursing homes: The nursing home is one of the most important foundations of the Icelandic welfare system. The government has not lived up to the plans set out in the Treaty to strengthen the staff of nursing homes and daily training. During the three years that the government has been ruling, it has carried out a constant decrease in the management process to a nursing home. Government reviews have pointed out that nursing management is generally very heavy, and the level of propaganda has grown year by year in accordance with the financial limitations of the government and when Iceland's health insurance was changing its method of spending money. It is noteworthy that the decision of health insurance has been made one - sided without discussions with nursing homes, social services organisations and the Union of Icelandic rural society. According to the previously mentioned financial programme, the largest State Fund project in connection with the nursing and rehabilitation sector is a challenge involving the reproduction of nursing staff both by rebuilding older space and by building new ones, including the development of new ones. with the building of a nursing home. It is a total of over 900 spaces. Governments have proclaimed that 717 space will be built to 2024 when it is estimated to be a total of 3,433, a 26% increase since 2018. At the same time, the government is assuming only 6% of the increased funding for the management of the topic field. It is not enough to build a new nursing home, but it must also ensure leading executives for homes so that they can do their job. There's a lot of missing. It is necessary to go to the sheepfolds of the nursing homes seriously and to review more fully the report by the National Reconnaissance on the topic area. The condition of nurses and medical staff in nursing homes is not easy. The head of Iceland's Hospitalist Association said that there was a serious shortage of medical personnel in nursing homes. This has resulted in the need to refer to people with a great need for service who do not have health care professionals to work. The reason for the failure of the human staff status Because the country's nursing home has been paying attention to funding for the past few years. The needed supply of business funds has been made to hospitals, clinics, and health care, but nursing homes have been cut down. Organizational organisations in welfare services have repeatedly pointed out the need to support the management of nursing, day-to-day and rehabilitation systems. A poor nursing home in the country is very heavy, and it comes, even at the same time. This is because it is impossible to achieve the size economy that is achieved by the number of beds that are normally recognized in the capital area. A promising conversation must be made between the health department's representatives, Iceland's Medical Insurance, aging institutions, and rural society. The premise of success and a broader agreement on the seminary is an increasing consultation and understanding of the nature of nursing homes. It's coming even. ... ina reviewofthecompany ofenterprises firms in welfare services. We agree that it is urgent to face the challenges of this important issue. It must be said, as it is, that the course to take in the form of service to the elderly is somehow changing. Now the goal is to try to serve as many people in their homes as possible while they are in good health. The nurses are even becoming, I'll let myself say grace homes. People often feel sick when they enter that home that they are not far behind. This is something that many people complain that is really not an improvement.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u46	V.E.G. President. I'm going to be in the same area where I was in my first talk, where I specifically discussed the position of nursing homes, health care, and care for them. I just want to go into a land hospital business with the thought that the situation there is serious, especially at the emergency room. We have seen conclusions from doctors that point out that the safety of patients is threatened and cannot be said to be the best option. I noticed the other day, and we got mail on that, at least. senators sitting at ease. A health committee, that the cancer community had concluded to give a total hospital of 450 million to build on a so-called K wing so that it will be an adequate facility for those who are attending cancer therapy in the Hospital. What I'd like to think about here is that we'll find ourselves in a position where we're in a community, the cancer society, who'll get their money from the public, who'd like to give money to the club, and that's the point of knowing about this tremendous crisis of conditions in the cancer department, and then we'll decide at the top meeting to contribute to the government's meeting with it in some way, upcoming financials, so that this department can be built on the so-called K building. And it's a bit complicated. First, it is a little sad to see that there has been no intention of expanding the department in a new hospital. At the same time, a hospital is scheduled for breast cancer screening. I want to set this up because screening for breast cancer is a class of preventive measures. Women, especially women, are being encouraged, although men may also develop breast cancer, to be present for screening to prevent early detection of breast cancer. What I would like to say is that I find something special that we are putting ahead of us what we would like to call the most expensive end of the health system, which the Landspira really is. Of course, measures to land hospitals, which are classified as second degree, are being performed because it is now at the highest level. Health Ministers place everything on top of some level. The first step is health care, the second step is specialists, and then we have a third level of emergency service. A land hospital grows and grows because it is designed to provide emergency services along with a local hospital for over 200,000 people. I've always seen it's pretty much, yeah, I just want to say it's like a couple of teeth that don't really turn to rhythm. It has always been my opinion that these activities should never be placed under the same roof. But the situation is that a free association organization, such as I would like to allow myself to mention the cancer community, sees this financial situation. We can also talk about priorities and how we put things first. The cancer community wants 450 million of its capital. It is said that 350 million are their own money, but they will also be funded with 100 million to build up this new department. Well, I'm sure it's a matter of time before the fund is paid up, and I'm sure it's known what's being collected. But I'll let me put a question mark on a society like the Cancer Society giving money to the Land Hospital. In this regard, I'd like to remind you that there are more departments than there are in Land Hospitals serving the cancer - sick people. Logistic support entitled to the cancer club is taken from a study conducted among those who have been diagnosed with cancer who have been treated, e.g. does not have access to private conversations for counseling or such. The same thing, may I say, is at the scene in Akureyri, where I know very well. It also does not have a position to have private conversations. It is often necessary to move to other divisions or to find other space so that it is possible. But that, in my opinion, is quite overloaded at the Hospital. The plan is it's all going to be in one place, and it can be quite complicated. I, in all my simpleness, began at the Council nearly four years ago. The first thing I could see was the way we were going, for example. Find parking lots at Land Hospital because people need to be able to park their cars somewhere. It's been so hard for me to say that I had an intolerable faultfinding over my little ones. There aren't many days since I got mail where people who had to get to the Land Hospital were asking about where they could park. In my opinion, they should have always supported what some have called the collar hospitals and then the clinics around the country. I specifically mention the Hospital in Akureyri, which I find to be incredibly ambitious of putting under a land hospital instead of putting it next to the Land Hospital because it makes staff less effective. My information says there's no shortage of doctors in this country. However, the problem seems to be in the emergency department, where experts are being called for, that there is a lack of it. They must be somewhere, and there must be some reason why they do not choose to work in a land hospital. I think there's a lot of stuff to do. Real action must be taken and the first step it should be, for example. To admit that putting the State Hospital on Ring Road is not a good idea. In recent years, we have suggested a new location for Lands Hospital. As time has passed, these suggestions have changed in terms of a new role that can be found by the One who leads the Ring Road. We have, for example. Name their role as a nursing home. But it's a matter of eternity, and I'm sure it won't come to a conclusion in the next few years. But in my opinion, it's the wrong decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u47	Mr. President. This is where we continue to discuss budgets for 2021. In my first talk, I made a very useful chapter of the bill for a discussion, which discusses what is suggested on the financial budget. I went over it only on the basis of what it says, and that, of course, is a very useful and targeted goal. Similarly, I made the subject of a specific concern regarding the presentation of the court at the highest level. Minister of Justice. When she was asked about the funding of the projects in her field of work in a discussion on budget of 2022 Guy26 - this is a case that attracts the international protection called - she said, with permission of the president: It is a bit unpredictable and difficult to plan ahead for how many are looking for international protection here. It has been decided to finance the cost of real money rather than overinvolved, and it is therefore difficult to estimate its lengthy budget. It is only evident that these words are the highest. The minister of justice to explain that this case is an open branch, as can be called in everyday speech, of a government fund. It's a little difficult for me to grasp this in the context of the clear laws on public finances that are being traced into the paper with the bill we're discussing here. It's kind of hard for me to figure out what's going on. A minister describes it here, saying that a decision was made to finance the group according to actual expenses instead of overindulging in funds. This raises questions. In this regard, there is one factor, one of many, for which there is a reason to stop but there are 120 million, or whatever, in the bus. You ask yourself, " How does my government fund start to take responsibility for what's going on in the bus? ' Some weeks ago, the parents of some children received a letter from the city of Reykjavík for children who need special care. Then some concerned parents of a child turned to me and showed me a letter from Reykjavíkurburg for a baby born in 2015, starting their primary schooling in the fall. The result of the state's diagnostic and counseling centre is that the child is the best paid in a special ward for some kind of person, and the child was applied for it. The parents'reply came from the school and leisure area of Reykjavík, April 21th, with the following heading: ▪ For the proof of a school course in a special department for some students. The letter shows that 38 students were applied in special departments, but only eight space is available. It is a very difficult situation, Mr. President, that all children are guaranteed the right to teach properly, as required by the law of elementary school, in an exhilarating study environment, in appropriate housing, which takes into account their needs and their general well - being. We face the fact that there are 30 children who are not granted the legal right to be taught properly, and then it is decided by the government rather than helping solve these children's rights, putting in the amount that may have been comparable to what this has cost in the prison. Mr. President. I'm calling attention to this and I'm describing my dissatisfaction with these policies. I'm just going to add it to, Mr. President, who has to be figured out, that parents, like the parents who turned to me, are not applying for charity or gifts for the child. Your child has the right to be taught properly, parents send in an application, and they are answered by statistical information. Mr. President. This is entirely inadequate, and, in fact, the establishment of the State Fund in Reykjavík is completely inadequate. We remember this discussion about transportation in the capital area. It is assumed that the contribution of the State Fund to the city line would be 50 billion. And after these 50 billion, into this bottomless pit, the value of one of the most precious jewels is to be placed in the possession of Reykjavík, the country itself. And not only that, but, in the documents related to this matter, Mr. President, it is also said that the sales value of Iceland banking is not to be put into this suit. Mr. President. It's a little bit of a financial deal. We've been trying to build a budget for the financial resources of the state. It plays a very important role in the laws I mentioned earlier, the laws on public finances. They're throwing money from the state fund into some bottomless pit - bottomless pits, actually I've mentioned two examples. I named a group where the jury minister speaks about open taps, and it's also a kind of open exchange from a government fund into this city line. This is obviously not a financial administration, Mr. President, which is acceptable. Since I'm talking about the city line, it's my duty to draw attention to the fact that there has been a group of amateurs about transportation for everyone. A spokesman for this group is Þórarinn 99, a Hjaltason engineer. He and his associates - these are engineers, economists, and various experts who make up this interested group - have provided a highly considered proposal for an inexpensive fast - speed system that they believe can reach almost the same goals as the proposed city line but with much less cost. In an article in the morning newspaper, though, a Hjaltason Þórarinn notes that the proposal presented by the group in this matter is 80 billion. cheaper than the city line, but it'll do almost the same thing. The savings he says in this article may be used in a much more practical way by highways in the capital area. Then, Mr. President, speaking of transport in the capital area, it is proper to name the Sunway, which is an urgent and urgent task and can be regarded as a very lucrative achievement. It is important, and it is necessary. But instead, from the government, it is over and over, that it has opened the bank from the state fund to the bottomless pit, which is a city line. No one knows how much it will cost, but everyone agrees that there is no such thing as a scheme for that hopeless company.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u48	Mr. President. I'd like to be here at 2nd. about a bill for the budget for 2021 to make a few remarks about the focus of the committee's opinion before I go to what may, as often and often as the times are, is the most important thing, what is not said in the committee's opinion. Here is a traditional introduction, followed by a review of the focus points to the more part's work. First, there is a chapter that focuses on the support of the Red Cross and Landsbourg, as follows, by permission of the president: The call was after a second argument for a total of 200 billion. K. proposals for contributions to the Red Cross and the Landsaver. Then we review how the Red Cross's income grew together during 2020, including the year 2020. due to a significant decrease in income from Iceland Games, or about 50%. Then, too, the development of land-saving management at the same time is under way. Then it says, and that's why I specifically mention it, by permission of a president: ▪ Society partnerships have failed to meet conditions for fences, lockback grants, income dropbacks, or part - time reforms that are the largest government resources to face a loss of income. Of course, it's the same hurt we were talking about here, probably on the day of yesterday, where sports support was being discussed. In part, the discussion was being developed because it was an extension of when the approved law, which, in itself, should be a simple solution, which called for considerable discussion, understandable, because the view was being presented, was a problem of society that did not define as sports companies to be supported by the government. Here we are back in budgets with additional support from two such societies, the Red Cross on the one and Landsbourg on the other. What I wanted to draw attention to in this context is that now, 15 months after the Covid situation broke out, we are in some way still responding to the organization as mentioned here, and we are still having unsolved solutions to a host of international communities, the Boy Scouts, and others were listed here in the discussion of the previous day. Of course, it is special that at the end of this epidemic, we now hope that its primary weight is over, that we are still in action as these, and even with logical support, which is so fitting for what was rejected two days ago, in conjunction with groups such as Boy Scouts, KFUM and KFUK, and others similar. It's just a clear statement, again by permission of a president: The members have not met the criteria for standing up, closing grants, income dropbacks, or part-backs... and here we are at this point at Month 15. Next time, I'd like to go over to the nurses. As it says here, with President's permission: A proposal is made about 300 million. K. Funding at Iceland's Medical Insurance, but in this fund nurses can bring up extra financial resources if services to individual households are temporary or permanent significantly higher than the standard paid according to nursing weight assessment. All of this, of course, may be a small matter to the same well that the position facing the nurses is being bandaged. Many believe that in dealing with the State, part of a nursing home is the inclination of the Health Ministry to push all the operators who in some way can identify themselves as private partners, whether as private or private institutions, in one way or another, into the state's conflicting form. It seems to you that the reaction reflected in this committee was not intended to solve the problem. They're trying to put a dooge in the worst involved. The fact is, the problem has been carefully mapped. Since Gylfi Magnússon, former minister, was the head of a control group or a working group who won a fine report, the problem is charted, and basically known what the degrees are. The reactions presented here are completely different from the problem, so it is obvious that the next government is waiting to figure out a solution in this case, a solution that doesn't always have it in its foreground and background that the private business, wherever it is, should be disintegrating and all of this goes under the hat of the entire, international government system. Then there is a chapter on the Land Hospital, which, of course, has been in a most unorthodox environment of the last year, as we all know it, but it doesn't change what it says here, by permission of the president: It was noted that the effects of the epidemic of Covid-19 have been maintained in many of the hospital activities, with fewer members of the various wards as well as the total number of surgical operations between the 2019 and 2020. A recession in elective measures led to staff moving to intensive care and ICUs to cope with increased pressures from the epidemic. A specific waiting list campaign is being held in consultation with the Ministry of Health in order to set priorities and work on waiting lists which have been extended by the pandemic. Of course, this is very smooth, as it were, but the fact is that we've certainly watched the various waiting lists being greatly extended through this Covid period and that the situation in many areas was bad for. While individuals are on hold, whether there is a replacement procedure waiting or some other kind of operation, a life - sustaining procedure, there is a lot to profit from hastening such action. It is not only that the quality of life of individuals is improving rapidly, I'm not going to say right away, most people need some time to recover from the operation themselves, but quality of life grows very fast, and the most important thing is that the people who are tormented out of the day and the day will become much more active participants in a workforce and in the community. I encourage those of these things to look particularly at to put in full priority in trying to get these waiting lists down and for all to stop the weird practice of sending people to foreign countries to get the same operation and it takes a third to do at home, possibly with the same doctor abroad, for example in Sweden, and would have done the surgery here at home. This kind of shit doesn't stand a sense of reason. Of course, it's amazing that a government with an independent party within a table - although the Ministry of Health is not represented by an independent minister, it's such that these actions and in what way they have been carried out are so damn wrong that I just want to declare it here and now I think it's a good thing to say that the Independence Party has not been promoted in that subject. That's just not enough answer to the fact that this is on custody of the left green. It doesn't mean to say one day that we're all in this together, but the next one's not allowed to introduce any Marxian approach to health in Iceland. I challenge those of the Independence Party who are now taking steps to resist this trend. It seems a little awkward to see since advertising panels in reelections where there is great interest in the private management of the health system and the public and private skills needed to work well together and out of the streets, while all the activities of these same senators who are reelecting are aimed at cutting off their feet from the private health system that has been so good for decades, where the Kingdom arrangement has kept outside certain aspects of the health system, the private business, and the blending in which it has been suitable. The members of the Independence Party must examine themselves and stop giving in to responsibility in this case by saying that the jury is in custody of the left green. I have a subtle suspicion that the left green is interested in energy, e.g., although the group is represented by the members of the Independence Party. If it wasn't, we'd probably have agreed on a energy efficiency framework here to promote the growth and maintenance of the economy for the future. I reiterate: this discount, an excuse for the members of the Independence Party in these matters, but only for the atonement of the moment that it is flaunted. I'd like to introduce a point on the committee opinion that is under the heading ◯Nemendue at the university level, to be introduced. In my opinion, I feel that the results of the Ministry of Education have not been the same. A legal committee would have wanted information on the number of students, his evolution in high school and colleges following the pandemic. But, of course, there's a lot of uncertainty about it now, and I'm referring to it in the context of the question. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, chairman of Reunion, came up with a discussion about President's conference board yesterday and pointed out the news that disabled children would not be able to get into their school. It is surprising, of course, that in this epidemic, we have provided a number of allowances and that some ministers are deeply moved by the fact that they are now particularly interested in children and those less fortunate but then seem forgotten by the vast majority of groups. I don't know if it's because there aren't enough groups on community media, maybe that's part of the explanation. There's an amazing situation in the two advisers that should be handled with this, on the other hand, the Social Ministry of Ásmundur Einar Daðason, the highest. Minister of Social Affairs, and the Department of Education for Lilja Alfreðsdóttir, the highest. Education minister, that these very weak groups, such as those 30 children that I recall the masses, would fall completely between ships and docks. It has to be a general guide to see the interests of these young ones and these particularly ill groups, since it is not an option to leave such groups lying uninhabited in a garden. Then there is a clause in the Committee's opinion, under the heading 'Environment of a better working schedule for shift work and abbreviated week of work. It is most recently reported that all of this had an amazing, induction of the work week's shortening, and it seems to have been very tricky, to be taken into account. In many places, you hear that there is no short work week possible, just because of planning and so forth. All that happens is that a higher proportion of the person's work effort is at overtime. If it was all about the pay, it's just best to say it. If it is dressed in that it should be particularly family-friendly and real shortness of the work week and that employees maintain the same terms despite less work effort, when the reality is that it is essentially solved with increased overtime, it is not thought to end it, as is the case with so many other things that we have here in the last list of the governments who sit here and their dealings with the job, public parties, and employment groups. I'd like to mention specifically, just to maintain it, by permission of a president, that it says in the committee's opinion: ▪ According to cost estimates, costs on the basis of the project may be about 5.4 billion. Based on year basis - For state funds. - ▪ Means the value of project 1st, May 1st. this cost may be 3.6 billion. in 2021. A year's basis is about 900 million. K. go to the institutions of the Ministry of Justice, then a police office and a prison agency. About 2 billion bucks. go to Land Hospital and some 1.2 billion dollars. to nursing homes. Of the 1.3 billion. remaining most frequently in the other establishments of the Ministry of Health, but a smaller increase is also expected in some other budgetary measures, e.g. Department of Economic and Economic Affairs for Customs and Social Services for Children's Protection Agency. The project is fully financed by using the general reserve in the budget of the year, with a total volume of over 20 billion. The Ministry of Economics and Economics will transfer funding to individual institutions for this project. This project is funded from a general reserve, a project that is rated on a annual basis of 5.4 billion. I have to say, it's quite surprising that this is now the end of this terms because the treaties such as these have not been recently established, which are based on these changes. The induction is new, but the agreements of the induction are not new. Those who handle the matter within the government seem to have floundered to some extent in these areas. Of course, it is also interesting that we are watching it now, when, on a third of thousands of people out of work, when part - time jobs are included, we are shortening the week of work without actually shortening it, that we are primarily paying more work. I'll give myself that those who come to this table next, when they've been examined, I'm referring to the labour agreements and the labour market contact, must consider how this can be done in a way that makes sense. All of this is in harmony with the fact that people have been in the same trouble as when the site was up here not long ago in a tremendous hurry that brought up a huge amount of extra expenses because men were running out of time for some order. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u49	Mr. President. During my first talk, I was discussing the health - system effects of this bill, and the nature of the bill itself, and in fact, a greater part of the legal committee, telling us about the problem of that system. I'm just going to wait for the discussion to take me to work a little longer. My discussion of the healthy section has something to do with what I have to do with the workforce, as shown below in the case of time. The labour market action, which, of course, is totally related to the unemployment trend, seems to me to be the largest currency involved in this budget bill, by far the largest. For the audience, it is primarily two major actions, and others rather smaller ones are included. First of all, there are 4,900 billion expected. An e.g. new expenditures to meet up increases support for reimbursement in the previous employment rate, i.e. where companies have reduced the person's work ratio due to the economic impact of the pandemic. It is probable that these enterprises are primarily available for the grant to re-examine employees in a previous employment rate. This suggests that there may be a pay cut at most for four months between June 1, 2021 and September 30, 2021. The date of the extension brought some attention to the fact that this is being extended just beyond election, but it is estimated to reach about 4,500 people. Second, it is the expenses of what has been called starting jobs. That's about 100 million less money, i.e. 4,300 million. K. The objective of this effort is to create as many as 6,000◯7,000 temporary jobs in cooperation with industry, government institutions, rural communities, and communities. I'll be back in a little while. In other words, there is no special emphasis on creating jobs in the private sector, which we really need to focus on in order to increase the taxpaying of the state and to live up to. Official employment. Especially do we need to consider this in these times. You wonder, " Is it so important to place this budget in government institutions, such as the above specifically mentioned, and in other respects, in view of the fact that much less information has been made about government launching, very little during the pandemic, and the level of security there has proved to be more than in other areas of employment? ' It also raises questions about what happens after September 30, in the public institutions that are expected to add new jobs. What happens as to their work? You see, there is always a danger in government action that it will lead to needs that are later difficult to get out of. The important thing is that this is not critical of the importance of public employment, in fact, but we need to increase the number of jobs in the private sector in order to be able to cover the public jobs and pay good salary to public employees, ensure that they have an appropriate income. Then there's just a little less measures, and maybe I'll get in on it below. First, I'm going to finish this discussion on the importance of having surgery. They're thinking about their long-term effects. I've criticized it about this whole bill that most of the things in it were predictable when men were winning budgets. So I wondered, " Why wasn't it that way to have it there? ' This may be partly due to lack of complete and long-term vision. Some of the factors involved have developed to a better degree, and other measures may have been more progressive. In other words, it is as if it were designed under the circumstances, yet it is still waiting to be carried out until now. The key point is that now that we are working out the economic impact of the epidemic, new jobs and new valuables will be created. As I mentioned, they need jobs, and most important of all, they need to be made up of private companies who did not have the same income insurance as government agencies during the pandemic, so that the government's tax revenues can continue to care for all the important services that the State provides and keep Kingdom employees working at acceptable terms. Only then can these traits be strengthened again. The bill says that by permission of the president, the employment agency will: ... grant enterprises to be strong because of the recruitment of an individual registered for at least one day without a job. 3 months. The cost of the operation is divided into two parts. On one hand, there is work where the employer may receive employment levels for up to six months with a jobseeker who has been working without work for 12 months or more. It is also mentioned at least how much this cost. However, the cost of summer Bible students is two and a half months, which says further disintegration of the points mentioned earlier. I'd like to reiterate myself, Mr. President, that I will not oppose these measures. It has been said that at the beginning of the epidemic and from the moment we presented our first suggestions, we would support all governmental suggestions aimed at reducing the impact of the epidemic. Yet, these are temporary measures. This may be a certain form of tranquilizer or pain medication that works for a certain amount of time. Besides, the jobs have to be self-sustained, so to speak. That is why it is so important - and it was now to become the main subject of my speech here, even though I may have spent much time trying to trace the introduction to explain what I was going to be doing - but the main thing was to be in action that would do just for a short time and give a certain amount of time, it must not be overlooked how men would continue and build up. There are some factors that have been neglected, I just have to say, throughout the entire period of this epidemic and, in fact, much longer, all this ideal period. I see that I will need to return to a speech to review in what way we can understand the facts revealed in these temporary operations of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u50	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill to provide a budget of 14.6 billion dollars. Add to the various kinds of cases. It's been over in the bill, what are they? Most of this is because of the government's actions because of the crowning virus epidemic that has raged here. We in the Central Party have supported these actions, and I think they're going to soften the impact. The blow is huge, and we have to make a considerable amount of time, Mr. President, to recover from the trauma caused by this epidemic, especially financially. There are two ways to do that. One is the way the left categories have spoken extensively, i.e. to tax us out of our troubles, that the state may increase taxes, to pay down the palace in which we have put ourselves. That's the problem. I warn specifically of such a route, but some of the left groups have specifically spoken for the way, that it would solve all the problems, and even reported that it would solve the problem if more government employees were hired by the government, that this would reduce unemployment. Of course, on this coin there are two sides, Mr. President, because the income, what we have to bite and burn, will not be made out of nothing. The production takes place only to a small extent in the councils and institutions of the State. The industry is a business product, the free business life, i.e. Fishing and industry, agriculture, and sales of services and exports That's where the production takes place. It is quite simple with the left categories to think that by adding extra spells on our job life, we can work out the problem. It will only cause business to become worse equipped to hire people. They will not work at unemployment, and the companies will be less equipped to pay their taxes, and that will reduce the income of their financial resources. It's going to hit one another's corner, this left man's option, and I don't recommend it. What the middle class wants to do about these things is to let our jobs grow and thus work out of the problem. In many areas of commercialism, tax returns automatically and, as we say, we must stop the expansion of the government, which I think is way too big, far too much better than the situation in today's economy. It is, of course, an eternal task, and it is not easy. But I believe that by means of discipline and good analysis, it is possible to work a great deal by reducing the foundation and controlling expenses by means of restraint and discipline. Why do I say discipline? Because, Mr. President, at times I feel like government officials lead some kind of independent life and have some kind of special requirement that there may be an unregistered flow of funds each year, and preferably with considerable increases between years, no matter what assignments are in place or how the situation may otherwise be. That's what I call discipline. This requires discipline, a system needs discipline, and a person's conduct. I think it is very important to stick to our work and not get away with weeping and gnashing teeth all the time in the power of the sheep, that the first person who gets older or less cuts than the next man. It's a big problem, I think, in the public system. If we succeed in showing discipline in the government, I think we can save many of the crowns, the people of the country for the benefit of all of us, giving them more of the necessary and more profitable work, as it is to be done here. It's $1 billion here. ... ina nurse'scircuit. Will that do, Mr. President? Not according to their own word. The nursing home has been fired with a sustained angle for many years. There's a lot of accumulated problems that this 1 billion will not tire, if you don't mind me saying it. So far, the rural communities that run many of these nursing homes have contributed to the operation of nursing homes in their area, and many rural communities are now being eliminated as well as known. According to news reports, the town of Akureyri in the last eight years has paid approximately 2 billion nursing personnel in their area Each person sees that 1 billion here, given the daily expenses of a nursing home, will not be far from paying off the persistent problems there is. We are increasingly demanding, and the state demands more and more on the care and management of older people and is well pleased, Mr. President. However, when it is due to merit the service that its operators are also on the other side of the table, making the demands, merits the service, and paying, and the operators have no way out. They must just do so well to continue running it with the required level of service, with the quality and housing required, and thus leading the home with a loss. Where should they look, and what should they do? They are completely trapped in their own operations, and by the time of the day, a great number of rural areas around the country have decided to turn over this operation. Will the State be better equipped to run these homes than these members, privates or rurals, or self - interest agencies that run many of these homes? I doubt that, Mr. President. I don't think a tour that ends in this way is a good conclusion for the government. We're on our way to trouble. The government also controls a number of nurses, and many nursing homes complain that they cannot use all their space. There may be space, but health insurance decides the numbers available, and despite the long waiting lists, it's not taken into this space because the funds say, "No, we're not going to pay any more. We don't have any more money for this. I think we've come to a certain degree in these matters in nursing homes, in the affairs of our old people. Mr. President. It is also serious that the number of elderly people in Iceland increases each year to form a large number of over 80s, the largest number of those living in nursing homes, doubles over the next 14 years. How long will it take to build the space needed within that time, double? I'm sorry, Mr. President, but we're on a very bad path in this regard. I'm worried about this. I have visited many nursing homes all over the country, and I have seen the ambition of people to care for local residents and household members in these homes, and the responsibilities of caring for them are all exemplary. However, in business nursing homes have been arranged so that if two patients apply for free space, the nursing home can choose which way it takes. Then it will: If the patient is heavy, i.e. Does he need a lot of care? Is the cost of medication high in this patient? Of course, they will choose the lighter patient when they have this choice. In fact, they have only two choices. I am told that people would certainly stop at choosing someone who is not even more successful in the home that may be a small home of 30, 40 members of the household. This is the result. There's a choice, Mr. President, between the old people because they can't afford to care for more patients. This is serious. I'd think it was very serious and particularly serious for patients who are looking for care. This is not supposed to happen in Icelandic society. The problem just increases, as I've mentioned here, I've talked a lot about the lack of extra money for nurses. The budget bill provides 1 billion to stop this hole, but the loss of nursing homes in the last two years, 2017 and 202019, was 3.5 billion. In this context, Mr. President, this isn't much of a sum, but the communities have made the bill pay and they've made a hard run. If you continue reading the budget bill, you will find that the budget was adopted by 326 billion dollars. Do it now. The measures are said to have increased tax revenues as a result of taxation of special property savings. Of course, Mr. President, it's the view that we're counting on the government funds that tax revenues increase because of the assessment of property savings. This is really, Mr President, money, money, money, the people themselves, it's the people themselves who put it aside. It is certainly proper to consider this to be a income. There, the government is hammering because the tax revenues raised something over-programming. But this is the money people had saved. Of course, there is also great joy that tax revenues increase in this way, even though it is the case with the people's own savings. The bill expects increased expenses for the Red Cross and land cover. I think it seems to me in a bill that it's mainly a loss, perhaps because of the epidemic, in these countries, because of their lack of income on Iceland. I suppose Iceland was then some kind of slot machines, and my income dropped in the epidemic when an application of these slots became much smaller. Now there has been a lot of discussion about a slot machines, and perhaps part of the explanation there is that society has shown great hostility to aid groups such as the Red Cross and Landsafjörg making money in this way, actually making money with addicts. Much of the people who do gambling, not all of them, are so - called compulsive gamblers who are unable to cope with this addiction and are in great misery, and this causes much grief among them and their families, and we have seen reports of these past few months. There's been a decrease in income, and the state's funds are running high and they're setting up an increase of 100 million dollars. K. To each one. Then there are 120 million to the bus due to loss of income. As a result, Mr. President, they're small money, 120 million. K., to meet the loss of income. These are pennies in the context we discuss here, perhaps in this hall, not in such a long time, the expenses we need to survive the treaty made in the capital because of the city line. There'll be something, Mr. President, when we start dealing with that amount. I'm a little afraid that we haven't anticipated the end of the task that can be solved in a much less cheap way than by the more intense structures that are to exist around this city line and that will only block other traffic. But that's the point. The purpose may also be to prevent people from reaching their way. Maybe that's the fun part of this city's adventure. There were other things I wanted to talk about. I was going for one. talking about the police, I can talk about them for a long time. I was going to talk about transportation, Mr. President. I have some time left to talk about transportation. We've been talking about going through these projects and supporting the government by making more money for transportation. It's professional, it's investment, and it's a long-term benefit to society. But what is the case? According to the Habitat assessment, public projects, both in 2019 and in 2020, have been summed up by about 10%, over 10% in the following year. But I have to ask for another speech. I'm gonna finish this. This is interesting.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u51	V.E.G. President. We've had quite a conversation with members of the council here today and in the past, with regard to the abhorrence of the highest. Health Ministers seem to have independent health care providers, businesses operating independently, and even partners. However, we may not have talked much about who is the victim of this issue. Excuse me, who are the people who are affected by this course? That's what I ran into this morning, Mr. President, from a seven-year-old girl at Egls' headquarters who can't get therapy. This is a girl with speech disorders. She won't be trained anymore. It was under the protection of a speech pathologist who was not educated and was therefore under the guidance of others. Now that the study is over, health insurance will not negotiate with this newly graduated speech pathologist until two years. And now I wonder, Mr President, what should this newly released speech pathologist do for two years if he doesn't have a contract with health insurance? Second, how could a seven - year - old who needs this service not get it because of some rules are set that must not be negotiated with humans until after a two - year job? I'm just wondering, Mr. President, who is it that makes this decision? I say again, how can the speech pathologist just sign training for two years if he doesn't have a contract? Now, Mr. President, this may seem to me to meet the other day with an independent physical therapist, but as we all know, an independent physical therapist has been striving to get himself together into some larger units or to become an employee of health care professionals or something like that. So, you know, there's going to be territory. This physical therapist said that when she started work a few years ago as an independent agent, she had a waiting list of 20 people. They're 160 now, Mr. President. These are the victims of this hospice minister of health care, who turns on private agents, while biting innocent people who cannot carry a hand in front of their heads. And as it happens, Mr. President, I took up the other day the difference between the waiting lists, i.e. the number of waiting lists for routine measures from the beginning of October 2017, i.e. Just before the current health minister began his office, and how it was in January this year. These are the statistics from the surgeon general, Mr. President, so I randomly cut off: In October 2017, more than 700 were waiting for a lens surgery but are now over 1,700. In 2017 they waited for a heart valve surgery, 22 now. There were 72 waiting for cardiac incineration, now 289. It waited for 56 in 2017 for cholelithiasis surgery or stone breaker treatment, 206 today. There were 90 in 2017 waiting for uterine resection, and 150 today. There were 241 waiting for a hip 2017 artificial operation, there's 503 now. That was 491 in October 2017, after knee surgery and 974 in January 2021. Now you have to ask, " How long will the Independence Party tolerate this health - care minister's attack on innocent and sick people? ' We need the answer, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u52	Mr. President. My final talk was to discuss the Land Hospital and his many financial problems because it has to do with all the nursing homes that are under this budget bill. Here, the government is finally responding to a request to improve the nursing situation by setting $1 billion. in their business temporarily, then forming 300 million. K. a fund that can be applied. But this is nowhere near enough, and, as I say, it is temporary. Hence, it is clear that the government does not trust to handle the problem permanently. This is naturally very bad, because it was one of the affairs of the Government Treaty, the head of the forwarding party, the left green and the Independence Party, meeting nursing problems, and so on, in the last record of elections, it is trying to show a color in these materials that are not quite successful. This has even been true. with the so - called efflux problem of the Land Hospital. We thus have individuals in very expensive resources that do not qualify for their services, such as the nursing homes. I have to say, at the time that has passed since this government began it appears that only a limited contract will has been made on the part of the government when it is time to negotiate the nursing business with the operators involved, e.g. an enterprise in welfare services. But we must also keep in mind when discussing this flow problem and the persons who have come to the hospital to have some kind of action or to look for solutions after they have to get into some sort of emergency, and they just don't have to be available. It's not enough to build a nursing home. It's got to have money to run them. I believe that the government has not shown sufficient interest in trying to solve this situation. We must bear in mind that the Landsaholic is primarily an emergency hospital. So it is the nature of the ministry, when it comes to funding to the hospital, and this has been over and over in the budget, that the service is unpredictable. It may be difficult for you to be on a firm budget. We know that, for example. that an emergency reception will not shut down when the budget is finished. It takes more flexibility. The pressures on the health system will continue to increase over the next few years and decades as the nation's life span increases. The same is true of the pressures of nursing homes. If we are to ensure excellent health care for all those in need of it in the years to come, health care must be much more efficient. It describes the inefficiency and problem of the system when patients are sent to foreign countries for measures that cost three times as much as they would cost in Iceland. It is natural that it is extremely sad and conflicting that it is tolerated to handle public funds this way. So I don't talk about the people who suffer and wait, and I could take action here at home that would be much less expensive than abroad. It is also in this, Mr. President, that the government cannot always refer to the administration of the Land Hospital and the administration of the Land Hospital points to the government, the state. The nation is getting older, which means increasing pressures on the system and the elderly 80 years of age and older need the most service. In addition, new health technology has called for an increase in cost. The government must face the problem and ensure long - term funding of the most important health care facility in the country, as well as the basic quality of the health system, the nursing home.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u53	V.E.G. President. We're still here discussing today's case. We have been discussing a considerable number of nursing homes, and it was mentioned earlier today that the city of Akureyri had been paying with its nursing institutions for a very long time. It's been paid to these institutions for years. What I wanted to come on now is a link to transportation, and especially a flight because we thought it was better for the airport at Egls. The plan was to build a drive so that even if it did, it would be possible to park planes there and move if other airports could not be used in the southwest corner of the country. Now, though, it looks like only a flogging of the runway itself so that the highway will be put on ice. This is very unfortunate because our airline, Icelanda, has emphasized building an Eelsstand Airport above any other level. Of course, I would have liked to have seen the same thought at Icelanda about the Akureyri Airport because I believe this is going to hold hands. There's a considerable distance between the Akureyri Airport and the Ellis State Airport. If we put it in the context of how far between Egress and Reykjavík Airport, which is also the final airport, it's not so much as different. The distances are similar. On the other hand, it was recently the highest. Secretary of finance taking a shovel sting to a new building at Leifs Station, and there were certainly 20 billion, if I recall correctly, that went there. So this is a bit of a wrong picture that you see. It seems that the exact way to go is exactly the way it should have been when you thought that in this Korean state, people would look a little bit back because there's opportunities in every place, if we can say so. It is an opportunity in such a situation that we are in right now to think things over a little bit. We're in the north, so I'll stay there, too, with a very important travel service. I can name the Diamond Ring we so call. We have an airport at Húsavík and then again at Egls, and it's something big. In fact, the task force on Whalesun is still at work, which may show the folly of all of this. It was this morning that the Norwegians had their first summer tour, and there were 300 passengers who came with her. It can also be noted that round traffic increased most in the East, about 23% compared to the same month last year. True, we were in the middle of a Korean epidemic, but on a national scale over the same time or when we compared the whole country with 8.4%, so this may show that there are more opportunities than through the portal in Cheflavík. I don't think it's enough to look at other places in the country, and especially now we should take advantage of the opportunity to think things over again, for that is an opportunity we must not let go.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u54	Mr. President. By the time of the final talk, I had briefly traced back the actions announced in this bill and the extension of previous work practices and unemployment. We have supported all these measures, such as others aimed at dealing with the economic effects of the retroviral epidemic. However, they share it in common, the actions attributed to this section on employment markets and unemployment, not being just temporary, but to delay the problem for a certain period of time. When faced with what may be called postponing action, there must be some idea of what to do with it. There I feel that there is much to be learned from the government that it has set the lines in what you can expect when that time is over. For instance, there is one operation to be completed five days after the election. How should we contribute to the chances of making up the people in charge of power from the State to business, keeping work at that time? It will only be done if you live in Iceland, and then, in particular, have a small share, but there will be most of the jobs, an environment whereby companies can depend on paying as much as possible as possible and thus improve the terms of the people of the country. But now a large part of the company time goes into something other than creating a thing of value and nature according to perhaps the largest amount of time for the smaller companies in meeting up and applying to the system. Added to this, the increase in the cost of enterprises has been considerable. Of course, this gives some explanations. But tax taxes, taxes on remuneration are among the highest people in Iceland, if we take a pension fund into account, and it's normal to do so in comparison with other countries, since men pay more often than not in a pension fund with their taxes there. In other words, if a company actually has to pay 2,000 dollars, it is expensive to put each dollar in the pay layer. to get 1,000 bucks. ... intheemployment of the employee's salary. It means not only that the employee keeps less available and thus has less value, but also inhibits the quality of the company to increase the number of people, employs more people. So if we're going to create the considerable number of jobs that will have to be created in Iceland during the next semester, I'm not talking about right now after this massive economic downturn of the epidemic, the conclusions need to be provided to improve the work of small enterprises in Iceland. I miss the government taking care of it during this terms, in fact, continuing to put on a new and burdensome rule against these companies. I especially miss the fact that such a thing has not been observed to any significant extent in the discussion of these temporary measures so that people would have some idea of what would happen to them. Those who are thinking about recruiting with that Kingdom scholarship may want to have some idea of what will happen next.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u55	V.E.G. President. It is unmistakably true that the ideals of the elderly among those who have least lived among them are in no way consistent with the general standard of living in the country. The ones with no money but the pensions of social security are the worst. The value of a pension may gradually be reduced from pay, and in the government's government contract, it says that the position of those who are in the palace must be made firm in particular. These include older citizens who have limited or no rights from pensions and who do not engage in paid jobs. Those in such positions have to rely almost exclusively on the pension of social security and are many of them in a public rented and even in debt. This group also includes those who have not earned full social security rights for living abroad, e.g. immigrants. The number of elderly citizens who are concerned about their financial situation is more than 30%. It'll even come. conducted in a survey that was recently conducted by Reykjavíkurburg, the Ministry of Health, and the older citizens'National Association. The elderly citizen's money has provided practical suggestions on how to improve the quality of the worst in this group. For those suggestions, thanks. The proposals were presented in the financial work of the Committee some time ago. Thus, the administrative part has had plenty of time to deal with them. According to OECD figures, there is a lower percentage of national production and wages in Iceland for the payment of pension than in countries such as Britain, the Netherlands, Denmark, and Sweden. Icelanders generally go to pensions later than the citizens of other countries, and there is much more and more involved in the elderly than in the rest of the countries. There is more than 50% in this country at the age of 50, but in Sweden, there is only 20% professional participation. Comparison with the above countries shows that Iceland differs from an active pension age. Icelanders usually take a pension from one to two years after a public pension season is reached, but the other four people usually go into pensions some time before the public age limit is reached. Thus, Icelanders usually spend far less years than usual in other countries. Thus, payment from both parts of the pension system usually begins in the country later. The average country's age is lower, so the public system is still very low in comparison with other countries. This underscores the fact that governments have the means to do good with older people. This is the generation that we most owe to today's general well - being, a generation that broke out in poverty with hard work and hard work, a generation that is only asking for justice and having the privilege of living in decent terms. In the history of the government, the minimum income and the pension of social security to the elderly have been continuously reduced, as has been conclusively demonstrated. Many comments have shown that according to 69 C.E. Social security legislation should take into account pay development when determining the amount of social security. In recent years, the decision has been based on a forecast of a budgeted average increase under collective agreements, which has led to the loss of 91.5% of the minimum age in 75% in the past ten years. Cumulative relativeity of these years has become 18%.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u56	Mr. President. We'll discuss budgets here for 2021. There are a number of reasons to consider, but there are ways to provide extra funds for transportation and a contribution to nursing homes. Of course, that is a very good price for a billion dollars. They should be added to nursing homes, but as shown in a recent report, they are expensive. It is, in fact, an obvious task being done, Mr. President, in view of the definition of nursing requirements, including the need for a nursing home. on the part of the surgeon's office and the Ministry of Health, but the daily expenses as calculated do not seem to be sufficiently taken into account. Of course, it is now known, as we know that the nation grows old, is demographic, is increasing in age, and is also defined as 80 years of age or older, or is 90 years of age or older. This is made up of the subject in a report by a group who was assigned to check the cost of nursing homes, of course, and for a higher age, residents, or residents, of nursing homes need more nurses than before and from more specialized staff. This is called in the science language, as one reads in these reports, increases the weight of nursing, and makes the nursing staff more predictable as time goes on. It is, as I say, a fine pay that is spent a billion more, but there is a very pronounced lack of a future policy in this category of legal contributions and I think, taking place in the budget for a while, that we see what else is repeated in this series, underdevelopment, and not enough proportionant between the budgets being made and the annual expenses paid. I can't protect myself from this, Mr. President, since there is a decision to put over 100 million in the bus business, and it naturally makes a connection with this city phenomenon, it's as if it's an open bundle from the state fund into the city line. We know that there is a plot that the State Fund puts 50 billion on the project. The sale value of God's land is then to be placed on this task that no one knows what will cost, but it has been cast out the figures of 70, 80, 100 billion, and higher, Mr. President. The report goes on to say that the sale value of Iceland's bank should be put in place. It is now selling stock in Iceland banks, but there is no information on how to account for the cost of selling it. I would like to make a comment on the suggestions available on better transportation in the capital area. This group is put together by specialists, engineers, including. with expertise in traffic, economists, and so on, they have proposed public transportation, which they consider to be 80 billion less than the proposed city line. The suggestions of this group, known as the U.S.A., are worthy of our attention.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u57	Mr. President. We're discussing a bill for the budget once more. I was talking about the last city line, and I said this was a bus stop. 120 million people to meet the loss of income, likely in the crowning season, have reduced the number of passengers in the bus during this time, and the state is under way. These are, as I said in my earlier speech, of course, pennies, Mr. President, in the large context of the time when the government will be forced to participate in a so-called city line, a project related to it, the building of the line that will cost tens and hundreds of billions. There's a project under attack, Mr. President, in which people do not foresee the expenses that will apparently result from this city line of work and have noted that expenses could go up to 200 billion at the end of the day. These figures have been mentioned. Not all of this is said because when it comes to running this battle, the first thing that happens is the locals and the government to pay it down. We've been burning up on it, Mr. President, many times over the years, that as we try to increase the number of people who take advantage of buses, we've had no business to do. This project has provided more billion in recent years, 1 billion per year especially for the project, but there has been no results. The number of passengers in the bus has not increased, the proportion of patients using the wagons has not increased in recent years and has been just about 4%. To suggest something like what might be called a city line, people are talking about a much higher proportion of people who make use of public transportation than we have been looking up in the capital area for decades. Of course, men are full - sighted and are going to block the ride of their private vehicle, the car's car, and plan to force people to jump into the bus system with the so - called city line. To intend to increase this ratio from 4%, of course, is a worthy project, and the ratio may increase slightly, but to justify this action requires a much higher percentage than 4%. Foreign experts have talked about 40%. Then we're talking about big cities where people don't get much on their own cars and people know abroad that they're just taking subways and buses to get their way inside those cities. We just haven't lived here in the capital area to get our way in family cars. We have been able to do so, even though it has been very difficult for us in recent years. In terms of transport construction in the capital area, there has been no deliberate action for many years, e.g. It's a false road meet. I think, quickly, that no more years ago, I may forget something, but it was almost every time that a misdirection was being made. But now this is to be put off to increase the share of bus use. But there's no result, Mr. President, so we're looking at 120 million in there to save the loss of Bustos. Of course, it's just small in view of what we have to do over the years, and no doubt we'll be able to get off this path many times in this room. It is possible, and experts have suggested ways to improve this system to benefit those who apply it in a much less expensive way than was suggested by the city line project. I was also going to talk about transportation outside the capital city. The government has been preaching ever since it began, not four years ago, since it was due to be under attack on the other transport projects. It has been almost four years since. What are they doing? People talk and talk, but is something being done? Yes, there's been a three - mile [3 km] conference at Who's Building and a double in Hafnarfnarfjörður and a similar trip to Straumsvík. That's almost the point, Mr. President. The actions of the animal tunnel were long before this government arrived, so the lack of work is extremely high. There's a lot of talk, a lot of promise, a lot of writing, lots of plans. But the song is always, Mr. President, and I've discussed it in this sermon before: We're about to do this. But the fact is, it's all put in the arms of the next government. Where's the Daffy Way? It won't hurt to prepare for it, not to create anything. I haven't seen any plans for a double whale soil march. Is there anything going on with the Elify Bridge? Yeah, it's all on schedule, it's all coming, but there's nothing going on. A desert plain, a lowland road, and a tunnel through a mountain of testing, where is it? Yes, they've begun something to dig on the West Coast, and it's time long ago, Mr. President, for something to be attacked, so it was urgent. With regard to transport, this government has spoken a great deal, estimated a lot, put forth a lot of ideas here, and all projects are about to begin, but all of this will happen in a time of the next government, while the evidence is on the table, Mr. President. We got it right here. Official projects, as assessed by Iceland's Habitats, gathered in 2019 by 9 commutations some 11%, and in 2020 by less than 11%. Official projects were summed up. How clear can the conclusion be, Mr. President? It's spoken, it's supposed to be, but it's going to happen later. We are tired of this in today's unemployment. Now we're hearing news that there's going to be an awful lot of work to be done this summer. Let us hope that there is no empty or kind of balloon in which there is no content. Mr. President. I'm out of time. I'm going to talk to the police, I'm done with the city line and the nursing home, but I was going to discuss the police subjects. I wish to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u58	V.E.G. President. In a talk earlier today, I spoke a great deal about nursing homes and the situation in which they now find themselves. I sought an article by the mayor of Akureyri, which I feel is a good view of the conditions of those who run a nursing home and why it is urgent that we give them money for the future. In order to say the first, the Akureyrin Regression Home in Akureyri was expelled, until recently, despite the fact that rural communities are not supposed to run a nursing home in the country. It's the State's job, under law. Every year, communities who had nursing homes have paid about 30 percent of the time. One billion of their outbacks by running a business. News could be heard, and now most of the largest rural communities have no longer a nursing home in their business. A smaller population has been returning business to the state because it has not worked out at all. All these smaller rural areas were in the same position as Akureyri back then, and it's cost-of-the-town funds, and thus it's cost-employed people who pay an answer to each other's rural society. If we looked at Akureyri had been paid every year for nine years - it must be a total, I don't know how to look at it - $1.7.2 billion when this aging home was discussed and covered in numbers last February. The local people have been tested in this way. These 1.7 billion will be without rent. The nursing home has been one of the largest employers in town, 320 employees serving there. Two houses are talked about, but they're a little divided and just very well put together. When nursing homes are built, the state pays 85% of its stock costs and the rural areas pay 15% under law. Another facility that took place in Akureyri City is Höldur. It was a different sort of calculation, and it was being determined how to bring money back to the State on account of it. That analysis is ongoing. And then there's the other place I mentioned the previous one called the Lawmaker's gang. It was built by the town of Akureyri and by a so - called rented route. There, the State pays rent because of 85% of the presupposed stock prices. This is a difficult business, and as we have seen here in talks today, the number of people who will enjoy living in nursing homes will increase. That is why it is very important that we look beyond what we have done so far to know where we will go and how we will act in the future. We can, for example. discuss the elderly's fund. It's not quite clear when money to the operator comes to them. It's all very vague. It may be that the State's authority needs a little better, so those who run these homes will have some kind of vision. This should not be all in irons. We owe better service to those in our home.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u59	V.E.G. President. I apologize for this delay. The budget is likely to be designed to add or eliminate what has been left over. Of course, the emphasis is expressed on this, for if that is the way it can probably be said, more and more are lacking in our system. On the other hand, it is clear that there are some strong opinions as to whether enough is done and in the right places on this financial bill. I've wondered a little bit more, and actually more, that the government is in some special way taking over the Bus bus business. ran by rural areas in the capital area. And you might wonder, " Is there no reason to add them to some of the money they have lost, those who are not in public transportation? ' I'd like to say, though, that public transportation is obviously very important. But what I'm afraid of is that this will give the tone of business on a bigger phenomenon that's worked in secret and clear, which is a city line. While there may be some groups in the administrative part of the world who seem to have doubts about this, it is evident, of course, that there are other factors in the situation in which people work hard to secure money in the city line and continue with it. The saddest thing about it is that there may not be any wanting, apparently, to listen to all the many tips that other experts have received from those who fight for this project have provided other solutions, inexpensive solutions. What's also interesting, so I'm just using that word is that it has not been clearly denied - except for the changes made by the members of the Central Party during the process of taking a step in this urban but all together here at the council, to limit the risks of the State by associating with this project. Here's Landsbourg and the Red Cross 200 million because of losing income, and I'm glad to hear it. There are important organizations that play an important role. It has to be said, as it is, that our great Landsaving partners and - men have shown it over the past few years, more often than not, how powerful a member of the volunteer team it is and because of it, it is noticed in many parts of the world. I'm just going to go down to a team called bottom 2021. Here is a set reassessment, assuming that budget 328 billion, 10.5% of gross domestic product. It's big numbers, and it's going to be a real effort to get it back all together. Happily, the measures made by the government had been successful. paritaprevir Sigmundur's winners, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson in 2013,2016, actually handling the vultures and the banks all the things that were going on back then. There is something that matters today when we live so well that we can actually fail in the way we could when we were hit by that storm. But what may not be directly discussed here is exciting. What will be the budget in the fall, the highest. President? It is a little curious to know if the government today will not show us some of its prospects, for it seems to have a determined desire to remain. There's something that comes even. conducted in a committee study on a nationwide bill. There people bind themselves to carry on with this assignment. Hence, we must expect us to also see at the right time the budget. Also, most of the parts are natural about their emphasis. This is a long chapter in the committee's opinion of a nursing home, and it is time to answer the call that has been heard about the lack of money. It is not as if those who run a nursing home make it different from taking steps to care for our elderly and sick people. There is something we must, of course, be sure to walk without being disturbed. That's why I think it's very important for you to realize that it's a key at the beginning of your next election period, in the next budget, to make sure that your nursing home gets enough money. Of course, we do not know that this government or current health - care minister will seem to have everything on his mind when it comes to something that is not a government operation in the health system. Of course, this is tragic, since these two systems or two people have and can communicate very well when we are thinking about the people of the country who need the services available to health care. As a result, I think we should look for extra cash where there is a need.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u60	President. In effect, 62 members of this case are accepting the doctrine of Pirata from 2018, which has been tried every year to pass through the panel committees. The Ministry of State has opposed this article. It deals with the confirmation of a third optional book of the United Nations Children's Covenant, which gives people on the land, children, and their guardians access to the United Nations Child - Court of Child Services, where we are represented, something remarkable. It's been hard here to get this optional book approved here, for some reason. But now that this is presented as a minister, we rejoice, of course, for good is good, no matter where it comes from.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u61	President. I come up here to celebrate this fancy affair, and maybe I'd like to add to the fact that I don't think we've been able to change this situation so that we could make sure that Icelandic producers could produce and deliver products containing CBD. The change in the proposal could not be established in this case, but we received information that a working group would start the job as soon as this case is accepted, which will be used to review it. The group is due in December of this year, and I just wanted to rejoice that this work had started even though I had wanted to get a different result. Hopefully, some good bill comes out of the work that will improve this position so that we can match the Icelandic manufacturer's position against foreign lands where we are today importing lots of products that contain CBD abroad. As it is now, Icelandic farmers cannot produce similar products at home, and hopefully we will add it very quickly.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u62	Mr. President. I had simply been traced to the largest budget of this bill for financial support, but they turn to work markets and unemployment. However, I pointed out and reasoned that in view of the fact that there are all temporary operations, temporary measures to pass through a certain period of time, it is missing that governments have indicated what is being done. Here we expect to hire a few thousand people with a government support, but we need to consider what will happen when that support is over. Of course, we would like to have as many of these people have the opportunity to work with these companies, but we also need to be much better able to meet smaller companies in Iceland to enable them to employ people on their own initiative and by personal initiative. However, there are a lot of things in this system that are discouraging, and conditions have been getting worse during this terms. Following completion of these measures, there is a much more uncertain period. There is an urgent need for plans, a schedule for what will next take place. One of the problems on the system, this often and frequently discourage rather than stimulating systems, has been identified in part in the implementation of measures planned for the pandemic, including the with government support for certain jobs, but it has been difficult to employ many jobs despite the state's grant. Then we must ask ourselves, " What is the cause? ' And by considering this, you have certainly not been blaming the world for the loss of a job. On the contrary, we must ask ourselves, " Does anything in the system in which it has been run cause people to be merely affected by the great loss that they are more embittered than the potentials that the state creates with this support to employers? ' It's all part of the same thing, i.e. that the state will try to establish a system that encourages the use of valuables, investments, industrial creations instead of, as it does so far too much now, with all this ever-growing spells and weighting systems, to discourage professional and valuable creations. This is especially urgent now when we need to build economics after a very significant decline. How do we get through this? How do we make it, e.g. how to finance what we're talking about here and this tremendous amount of money? It was with an action program that based on what could be done, what would be logical to do, what would contain the most positive motivation, what would be most successful, run through in the history of the government during 20136/2016 politically. Now we need political leadership to design the systems and motivations that have become urgent now that we are waiting to build the economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u63	Mr. President. I'm just going to step here to a memo sent to the financial and economic legal committee for the financial support bill we're discussing here. There is much interesting in this memo, and what I wanted to do first is an overview of page 6 in this document of measures for an epidemic of 2020 and 2021. This list lists the events that have been implemented, and this includes an accelerated reduction of the bank tax, costing the state's budget this year of 5.7 billion dollars. Now, the state's budget must be natural on all its income stocks when the tire of a government fund is substantial. It's 328 billion this year. This funding bill adds up to 8 billion dollars. It is clear, then, that somehow this great pitch has to be met. It is something the government has no idea of how it should be done and has not shed any light on it. Now, for example. While the groups in the government delight in continuing to cooperate after the election, they do not show anything about the game when it comes to removing the debt of state funds. Of course, there are plans to do so because it is important and is not good for the economy that government funds are so committed to some time. But a man asks himself, because I mentioned the bank tax, Mr. President, what has been the result? Have the bank services dropped? I haven't heard of it. They are enormously high, and at any rate, the banks do not seem to compete with one another when it comes to their services. It's a burden for many homes, that's all. One is, yes, interest has fallen. But is it because of the banks? No, I don't think so. I think it's mainly the tools and tools that the Navy has used because of a decline in the economy. At the same time, we realize that banks'profits are growing a lot. I think the profit of the last Arion Bank was 12.5 billion, I think. At the same time, they were breaking up 20 employees. So I ask: What was the result of speeding down the bank tax? I can't see it, Mr. President. We at the Central Party proposed a change in tax decline, but it met certain criteria, i.e. that the banks may show that they have reduced their services and that they have grown up. But this proposal was made here at the council. It was a very good suggestion, and it was such a security valve for us that if they didn't come up with any efforts to reduce their services, the tax wouldn't turn down, but the independence party, the advance party, and the left greens would fail. It's just that way. This suggestion would have made much difference in the country, so there is much to care about when it comes to saying that they trusted that the banks would only reduce their expenses and interest when such an operation is made by the government. V.E.G. Secretary of finance did, said he trusted the banks to do so, but I haven't been able to help him.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u64	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss financial contributions and, in the light of employment and valuables, our policy in the middle of the category with the senior citizens is that the trades of senior citizens do not limit pensions. The numbers of older citizens and others who rely on pension payments need to be improved, which has been traced before. At the same time, flexible retirements must be established without the impairment of pension income and pensions guarantee minimum pay. Long ago it is clear that social security losses are out of control. This arrangement is about to discourage older people from improving their interests by increasing work in the force of normal self - survival efforts and promoting black work. On the part of the Ministry of finance, it has been claimed that the cost of the state's funds to relax the clone in this matter is worth billions of dollars. These statements do not support valid logic. There is a calculation of the financial status of elderly people loved by the older citizens in years ago. The cost of disposing of a hundred thousand dollars is inexplicable. Standards are not too much as 1K. According to one reference work, taxes, as well as government taxes, make up the potential cost of removing these costs. Adding to this is a social impact involving involvement in the workforce and activity in society, which is thought to have unequivocal value in public health. Work is noble, as has been so often said. At the same time, the pensions of social security are down because of pension payments. Older citizens and others who rely on pension pay are still waiting for the justice they were promised for a decade ago to not interfere with pension pay. Deforestation and other negative inducers have a major undesirable effect on self - preservation. Abnormal impairments also have negative effects on the mental and physical health of the individual. The middle class stresss that there will be a constant change in the way this has been attributed. These impairments have undermined belief in the pension system and left old low-payers to the level of people who have not paid in the pension fund. Studies in older citizens have shown that nearly everyone, or 97%, feels that it would be easier for those in pension to be active in a job market. The older citizens' employment program brings them greater activity in the community. Increased activity contributes to well - being and contentment. The more older people work, the better the quality of life they experience. The government must be aware of this. They must be aware of the status and expectations and attitudes of the elderly when it comes to job participation and its positive effects on the well - being of older citizens. Older citizens are more physically affected today, and people can expect to live longer. Therefore, it is necessary to meet the elderly so that they remain active in society and remain independent as long as possible. Those interested and able to work longer should have further opportunities and more flexibility in their retirement work and employment participation after start of pension. Older workers often have a lot of knowledge and experience that can be useful in many work places, and both for those who want to continue and stay at a job market as well as for the rest of the community. Research has shown that association can bring great satisfaction to older people.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u65	Mr. President. Here, we'll discuss a bill for budget money by 2021. There's one point I'm going to do for a conversation in this brief talk that I have here an opportunity to deliver. So there's a plan to give an extra 120 million. K. due to the temporary support of the state of the United States on the bus. caused by the effects of the chorionic virus. It says that since 2012 State Fund strengthened the bus family's road. approximately 900 million. K. This year, on the basis of a contract for a 10-year experiment to promote public transport in the capital area. This ten - year experiment has not produced significant results compared to the use of public transport in the capital area. Of course, paying for public transportation is worthy of our task. The policy has been to attack a city line that has serious flaws. There are very vague plans for the cost of that project. There is no master plan. It seems that there is no need for a management plan because it should only be financed by new taxes on the road, whether they are supposed to be traffic charges, road fees, Tata tax, fast fees. That's what's been heard in the discussion. So, Mr. President, it's come to be a group of amateurs who call themselves eager to travel for everyone, an A.S. This group is organized by experts, engineers, traffic experts, economists, and other such groups, as well as professionals. These people have produced plans for implementing this area, which would achieve the same success as the city line plan, but for 80 billion dollars. less than the $100 billion that are put to the foundation as the cost of the city line. The defender, the advocates of this concept, say that it can be used more effectively in the highways of the capital area. Mr. President. When the situation exists, plans are made to make a very significant contribution to the construction of this so - called city line, i.e. 50 billion, as expected in an agreement on transport in the capital area, 50 billion from state funds, as well as the value of the Kaldnaland sale, and then at least Part of the U.S. Bank's sales value falls into this pit, it's not natural or possible or responsible to look past the shapes established by experts and professionals who are expected to achieve the same kind of results for a fraction of the estimated amount of $100 billion, i.e. for 20 billion, and thus save 80 billion dollars. Then, naturally, the most profitable project visible in transportation, which is made up of many advantages. It connects the region and its capital area not only west and north but also south. This would bring great relief to the pressures of the Aarhus River, as humans know. Of course, the project should be started as soon as possible and these city lines should be placed on the shelf where they live.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u66	Mr. President. One important point was to mention in this discussion. Hv. paritaprevir In fact, Ísleifsson Ísafasunsson merely mentioned in his speech earlier, but it suggests that the trend that I feel is in progress, that governments allow themselves to overlook costs that are inevitable, and that they use an excuse that the cost cannot be precisely calculated. Or, which may happen more often, prefers to look completely past the expense. Indeed, the city linework is an example of this. However, this and government approach to public transportation in the capital area also shows us another problem in the government's income or how it is handled, and there is a lack of the need to determine whether or not they will be successful. Here I refer to an agreement that was made to support public transport in the European region, Bus, for ten years, about a billion dollars a year. But instead, this may be the most strange of all, there should be no major improvement in the capital area for the next ten years. The argument was that the money saved not to go to frequent and frequent needed transportation could flow into the busway in order to improve the use of buses. They may have imagined that the traffic would continue by doing nothing to make room for it, and others would turn to the towering bus. There was no success, Mr. President, no success. It was said that the freshing of the Bus could dissociate 4% to 12%, but at the beginning of the project, the use was 4%, and by the end of the ten years, the freshing of the bus was still 4%. In spite of this, the state determined, and apparently also the present government - or not that seems to be the case. The secretary of transportation has already said - to extend this fund of government that did not bring back, and then this additional contribution is given in this bill. Of course, this has to do with the plans for the city line, where the government decided to put 50 billion in this company's campaign in Reykjavík in the first place, without an assessment of the total cost of the project and without any assessment of the cost of running it. It was only because of our battle by the Middle Party members that the greater part, however, was moved to make a comment in the committee opinion that it would not necessarily be that the State would pay on and then the business on this device indefinitely. Similar things do we see in the discussion of the reasons for seeking refuge, where a fundamental change is expected, in which many more people are to receive the same service that was once guaranteed to a limited number of people, i.e. We have put much emphasis on receiving what we have done. But by multiplying the number of people who had the right to perform that same service, it can be seen to everyone that it has some costly effect in addition to the effects of a greater appeal, of course. But it was only overlooked. These are just two or three examples of what happens too often, that are overlooked by costs that are obvious and even very significant costs, and as in these two issues mentioned here, it's just not to mention, but to him. But he's coming.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u67	Mr. President. I'm just going to continue to review a memo from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs that brought us to a financial committee in relation to the work on this budget bill. In the first chapter of this chapter, this general role of a fund code is attributed to the measures it should contain to be temporary, unpredictable and inevitable, in order to address expenses that are inevitable and within the budget. There's a slight discrepancy about how the government has kept this up. These are not the first budgets laid on the part of the government, but some of them have made it very clear that they really should be at home in budgets. In fact, this is a response to unforeseen things, such as, e.g. The unemployment, it's even that way, and it certainly belongs in financial aid. There are huge financial resources that go into the unemployment insurance system, and each percentage of unemployment points are expensive to us, each percentage cost more than 6 billion, reminds me of, on a yearly basis. You can see that this is a substantial amount of money and that it is a great deal of work to make and use and give the private contribution an opportunity to increase the number of employees. It plays a natural role in the State, i.e. living in the economy is an environment where they can thrive and then increase the number of employees and pay higher wages. The advantage of the entire community is that the company's work environment is the best. We are also looking to the international competition from which we are from abroad, i.e. that we are competitive to get a foreign investment into the country, to get foreign companies to start our business. That's important. A foreign investment is professional. The natural environment must be attractive. A number of countries are competing to obtain data sets and major international companies, e.g. It's about the software industry and other things. Ireland is an example of a country that has been remarkably successful in attracting foreign investment, especially in the software industry that I think is about 26% of their land production. We have ample opportunity to cultivate such qualities and to be attractive to foreign investments. We have here the most desirable green energy, which is increasing in demand years from year to year, and renewable energy. This is all very important today when companies are choosing land to have activity. And political and economic stability, it all counts. Especially is this the role that governments must take seriously. They're creating a lot of jobs here, but they're not self-sustaining in the sense that these are temporary jobs. They are not sustainable in the sense that they are naturally funded by government funds. The wealth of money is making temporary work to overcome unemployment, which is now lacking: What then? What, then, when that money is finished and we see to it that there are either other options or that we need to activate the companies in our country? This is what we have in the Central Party stressed. We've moved a modification proposal on a permanent reduction of the insurance fees of 0.25% and we've tried to offer suggestions that contribute to improving the business environment. Sadly, though, the government has merely taken these suggestions and has failed to show them the understanding to be done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u68	Mr. President. The issue discussed here is very positive. That's a positive and actually a rose of the government's buttons, I'd like to say. They're not very many of the freedom issues that have gone through in this government, but I really hope this case does. This suggests a reduction in the age required to run a restaurant, from 20 years to 18 years, a significant reduction in the registration rate, a shortening of the treatment period for so-called opportunistic licenses, and a violation of the criteria for driving agencies to be open to the public. There are many obstacles, Mr. President, who stand in the way of people who want to run a business, and many of these obstacles are bad or unconvinced. We live in a society where people will be legalized at 18 years of age, who are entrusted with choosing, getting married, and in debt for the future. Therefore, specific restrictions on the rights of this population and the age group need to be reasoned. Such restrictions are to be placed because of real needs, not because of some whim, but because of a person's right to run a boarding home. It's impossible for me to see what the need is for you to be 20 years old to do that, but you can't. The bill says that if the license includes access to the alcohol squad, although you have to be 20 years old, you still have to be a candidate. That may be possible. says that it is understandable, at least in the context of the legal environment we live in, but that no one is allowed to run restaurants and lodgings unless he is 20 years old, absolutely regardless of whether he is reaching out for a liquor permit. There are, however, legal reasons to limit alcohol - dealing age to 20 years, although I am in fact saying that we can reevaluate that ratings as well as the legal age of 18 and the laws that apply in the countries around us. The decrease in registration rate is also of great importance. A lot of people are the rocks that are made up of small, professional drivers in Iceland. The payment is a major obstacle and unacceptable to the fact that it is higher than necessary. For public service as a permit, the payment must be in line with the costs of registration and not higher than that. As to these issues, I would like, Mr. President, to refer to the general agent from December 29, 2020: To determine whether a service fee is involved in the sense that this is the case, it is generally considered that the person paying the fee is the most important thing, and the amount of money paid is based on the financial cost available to the government in regard to the price paid. Later, as the law often puts it, they are limited to a fee that is no greater than the cost of pay. Mr. President. I believe many of these conditions have not been met. This may be proved to be especially true at the highest level. Tourism, industrial and innovation ministers are now counting the scope to severely reduce the costs discussed. That, of course, is a cause for joy. This change, together with the shortening of the treatment period of opportunistic license applications and the obligation to keep driving centres open to the public, has been designed to help people start business, stay out of business, and increase their variety and innovation in the economy. Mr. President. The changes proposed in this bill are part of 438 motion-and-report proposals provided by the National Institute of Economic and Development, OECD, by the Iceland Government to a report on Icelandic tourism and construction services on November 10, 2020. The report revealed what we already knew, that there can be a significant reduction in unnecessary work loads and a change in routine activities in order to support more active competition in Iceland. The estimated impact of all these measures is an increase in national production of more than 200 million euro, or more than 30 billion dollars. every year. This shows that change is important. Songs that eliminate obstacles and increase the freedom of the people of the land can also save large sums of money. A law that eliminates obstacles and reduces costs can increase the production in society and provide the basis for increasing economic growth, which is always important, but perhaps especially now when we are in desperate need of recovery from our current economic recession. I also hope that this bill will lead to further decommissionation of professional barriers and limitations, large and small. In fact, that does not happen during this ideal period and depends on what kind of government is most suitable in the election in September. Perhaps we will also achieve them against other forms of freedom that have had to be subdued for the conservativeity of our government. These include the freedoms of a taxi market, which other international agency, ESA, have made very serious comments about the lack of property in this country, the freedom to choose a name without the State's interference, the punishment for possession of drugs, the sale of commercial goods, and, in fact, for a long time. Mr. President. The freedom barriers of the government are mainly based on community media, but they seem to be having a bad turn here at a body hall. But one thing is certain, they do not fly on their own. That is why I hope that this case will be successful and that in the next term, we will see many other issues of the same nature.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u69	A respectable president. I wanted to come up here and report that I have proposed a program for tomorrow's meeting. That's the way it happens. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir has provided a bill, a very important bill, to meet the emergency of sailors on small boats. She has had the debate that somehow the opposition to government is somehow teaching that the matter is not going to be successful. A senator is the head of the professional trade committee, despite the fact that her member is the chairman of the United States Assembly, who makes a deal on her behalf and despite the fact that her member is the president of the council, Stetgrim J. Sigfússon. Despite the wind. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy twice said it clearly that he and we support each other's issues. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir continues her speech speech speech speech. Therefore, I suggest that this matter of hers, this good case, be scheduled for the first session at tomorrow's meeting so as to make it clear that we would like to see that this is the subject as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u70	The President has received this message.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u71	V.E.G. President. We are here on the bill to correct the change in restaurants, housing and entertainment laws, change of the law on the increase of state funds, and change of licenses for registered automobiles, in parentheses are spoken of as driving licenses, opportunities, and licenses. It's a very long title on this bill, even so long, it takes quite a lot of lines. But in the matter itself. I looked up a committee opinion with a new proposal, which was pretty good work. This is clear and direct, and it takes on key factors that are important in this bill. It says that the committee specifically discussed the legal environment of the tourism service. Of course, it is very important to think about it now and, in fact, not to be there later, as we see that society has gradually been starting again, and therefore it is very important to take advantage of this opportunity, as I spoke about here earlier today. It is an opportunity in all situations, so it is important to examine the legal environment of the tourism, which, in spite of all our biggest growth points for some time and will get us back on our feet quickly. Everything has to work as well as possible. It is discussed that both legislation and government laws need to be quick to act. This means that it needs to be able to deal quickly with the changed company's management environment for tourism. It is not only that the number of tourists has increased to four times since 2007 but also that which is as important as it is, that changes have become considerable, e.g. in the sale of room service, and the lawgiver has not had sufficient resources to keep up with that development. Today, there are a greater number of opportunities for lodging, and most of the reports have been made through accounting services. It all matters. We all remember when life was the way it was before the crowning virus. And then we saw so-called "camper's"-cars in most parts of the country, all over the country. This is an example of the wide range of accommodations that exist today, but perhaps not when the Law was given in 2007. Another factor is that there have also been changes in restaurantism, so quality has to be maintained and consumer protection works to make everyone happy. It also discusses the statistics related to travel services and the importance of identifying and publishing statistical information on the field of tourism. I singled out specifically that it is considered important to assess the results and then to develop policies for tourism. Then I'll think of how we can start thinking about more portals to and from the country. It's the old story about how we can spread tourists around the country or just get them in more places. It is very important to mention that instead of going back to the exact same way, i.e. building below the southwest corner while others have to wait. Therefore, it is very important that this kind of thinking be kept clear of what is being used in policy. The bill is said to be only a factor in improving the management conditions, and in a paper the Commission directs it to the Ministry to take special note of what I said above, to gather statistical information on tourism to assess success and to use policies in the tourism service. We have to be able to create opportunities all over the country. It matters. At the end of this committee party, we will discuss a very important point. So far, there has been a delay when people apply for a permit for business. It has been three weeks before e.g. Opportunities. The views indicated that the deadline should be canceled, but the committee did not destroy him. However, she felt that he could be cut short and is spoken of as short as two weeks before, since it takes time to plan for law enforcement and fire safety, take them out, and that important thing. So this is the best thing to do. I looked at the reviews that came about the case. You will benefit greatly by reading them because they will help you to accept the article in this discussion. According to one reference work, this bill has been created as a result of OECD's competitive assessment of the regular work of Icelandic tourism and construction. Here we are certainly talking about travel services, and I find it quite remarkable to read that OECD suggested 438 suggestions for improving the rulework, which includes reducing unnecessary loads of employment and that the order of order will thus be more effective competition. It also states that many of the proposals are still in operation within the management system. The bill considers four of them. First, a change in the age-separated programme of the MAH for restaurants and lodgings, secondly, a shortening of the O.S. O. O. O. O., third, reduction in the rate of reimbursement for the license of food and innations allowing the sale of alcohol and fourth off of the condition that the driving station should be open to the public. This remains natural for the huge growth in the rural and international tourism industry in recent years. What I think is the most important thing about this bill, and what they say to the team of professional drivers is a decline in the license. It must be important to try to lighten the load because these are the companies that are going to have to rise fast, so I rejoice that this is the way it is. Then there's a review from the company's partner in hotel and room service that's kind of pleased with this case. They specifically refer to the bill's report and say that it is on OECD's proposals, as I said earlier on the change, taking particular note of what is presented in the bill itself, by permission of the president: ▪ With the bill this is an important step in promoting the resistance of the economy, promoting simple policy projects, increasing production and growth of jobs, but in view of economic collapses that have seriously affected the work - related tourism, the suggestions of OECD can be said to be particularly important. I can agree with this. This made me feel a bit of a problem if we start looking for a quick rise. I did the same thing in this same review from a company's partner in hotel and room service. It discusses what they choose to call hotels at sea in Iceland. It refers to a hotel ship traveling around the country with passengers. We may talk most of the time about cruise ships. They don't pay taxes, but they pay ports as well as a small price per passenger. This may seem to them to feel that if the trend continues, our country hotels will compete with these cruise ships, the country's hotels, and especially the country's. I'm not that pessimistic, though. I've spoken rather that we should make our way here to my country of cruises where they can, despite everything, dock in my places around the country. Getting such visitors is of great importance to less places. We don't need to think it deeply. But all kinds of persons can benefit from this, and especially those who are aside from a general business. Companies in hotel and inn service, according to their review, by permission of a president: ▪ With the bill this is an important step in promoting the resistance of the economy, promoting simple policy projects, increasing production and growth of jobs, but in view of economic collapses that have seriously affected the work - related tourism, the suggestions of OECD can be said to be particularly important. This is mentioned again to show the importance of protecting hotels, especially around the country, even though the government has betting on only one portal into the country. It is really important that we contribute to the prospering of our hotels wherever they are in the country. It is in my opinion that it could be a recipe for how we could try to simplify our rule even more. But because I see that my time is getting up, I'm not going to start diving in it, but I'd like to say that this is a very good tour from a travel agency, which is certainly useful in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u72	V.E.G. President. I recommend here for the adjustment of this important matter, which is a great deal. There's a lot of good things in it, but not all of it, so let's see. What I would most like to do in the declaration form of definition, especially in 2 gr. the bill in which an explanation is discussed. I recommend a move on section 6 of Section 2. because what it means to be a parent is not considered sufficiently clear. With President's permission, I'm going to read number six: A parent: The parent and/or guardian of a child according to child's legal requirements. The term can also apply to a pregnant person because of integrated pregnancy services. In individual cases, the laws of child law and other special requirements apply as appropriate. A parent needs to say that it can also apply to those who regularly associate with their children. This is vital if we look to the rights of children, that children always have the right to associate with their parents. It's just to tie up this definition, and that's why I thought it was important to have it here tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u73	Mr. President. Thank you. Árnadóttir For the presentation of this amendment, which is good and is put forth for enunciation, there is a bill to correct the integration of the child's welfare services. Then we feel that, and it also became clear in a discussion about the Senate Committee that having integrated services for the benefit of successful children is very important that all caregivers are invited to the table when they are being integrated in the ministry. To make it clear, I support this adjustment, or I am working on it, so that when parents are discussed, we are talking about parents, whether the child lives with the parent or it is a parent who enjoys socializing with his child. This would improve the whole matter so that the necessary integration will be achieved. Other than that, I'm glad we're on the final meters of the case, even though I would have wanted to go a little more than that, i.e. delay of validation to ensure personal protection. But we've already discussed this in 2nd. and I will not extend the discussion any more than by this motion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u74	A respectable president. I'm here serving an extension opinion with a change in bill proposal for childhood and family law from the greater part of the welfare committee. The committee has discussed the matter again after the second issue. to meet Anna, the daughter of Tryggvadóttir, Halldóra, the Dröfn of Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, Inga Birna the daughter of Einarsdóttir, and Silja the daughter of Stefánsdóttir, of the Department of Social Affairs. The majority of objects feel the need to make several technical adjustments, including to coordinate the term use between this bill and the bill to correct the changing of the law on the state's analysis and counseling centre as a welfare committee passed on May 28th. where the name of the Agency was changed to the Advisor and Analysis Centre. Thus, the majority suggest changes in the bill to synchronize term use as well as other technical changes. The rest of the part suggests that the bill will be approved by the following changes I've presented and made to the Committee. Under these writings of Kristjánsdóttir Signunnsdóttir, Ásmundur Friður Friðriksson, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, and Vilhjálmur Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u75	A respectable president. I present a committee opinion with a new proposal that corresponds to the change I made earlier, where we reexamined the situation after 2nd. and had guests from the Department of Social Affairs. The majority of objects feel the need to make several technical adjustments, including to coordinate the term use between this bill and the bill to correct the changing of the law on the state's analysis and counseling centre as a welfare committee passed on May 28th. where the name of the Agency was changed to the Advisor and Analysis Centre. Thus, the majority suggest changes in the bill to synchronize term use as well as other technical changes. The majority suggest that the bill will be agreed with the following changes presented in the Commission opinion, which are the same members from the majority, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjánnsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir's daughter, and Vilhjálmur Árnason, who write under this committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u76	A respectable president. I recommend here for the change of bill to legalize the package travel laws and the interconnected travel arrangements. So I'm only aware of the case, and I didn't add an adjustment proposal that will omit a federal accountant to revise the accounts of the fund, as the committee's opinion says. Hence, this adjustment is proposed. However, regarding the review of accounts, by permission of the president, the committee states: With a 4. 1st par. The bill is suggested that Government Accounting be entrusted with a review of travel insurance accounts. In his review of the matter, a decision made it clear that the travel insurance fund does not fit in with the term state body as defined in Article 3 of Figure 1. Section 3. Laws on Public Economics, No. 123/2015. As a result, it falls outside the public accountant's field to revise travel insurance accounts. The Commission suggests that had agreed with the Ministry to remove the law and proposes a change in the requirement that the government of the fund be assigned to revise his accounts. As a result, this adjustment has been made. She's short and good and she says: ◯4. ngr. 2.g. ... cutoutofthestills.How long is it going to be done? You should be right.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-10-111.u77	The president has received the following program proposals and letters: I signed it as my suggestion, in accordance with 1.mg. 77st. Conventional proposals, that the next meeting program will be: 1st Fishing management, 855th case, law bill from Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir, 1. Environment, as well as the rest of the programs proposed by the President of the Generals. We would like this proposal to be presented for release in accordance with the above terms of engagement. Under this letter, it is written by Hrafn Gunnarsson. This proposal will be presented at the beginning of the next meeting.
