ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u1	At a meeting of the European Parliament earlier today, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson was elected chairman of Iceland's embassy at the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u2	Borist has received a letter from a foreign and development co-work minister asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a covering query. 614 about the presence of an army, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u3	Mr. President. New born policy for Iceland has been developed, and a great deal of emphasis has been put on reaching as much of the stings of innovation in the country. We've increased funds covering a wide variety of innovations and production products, such as Food Funds, and a huge increase in budgets in traditional innovations. The newcomer was funded from the Research Fund for 2021, and no more projects have been funded or higher than this year's reserve of 3.7 billion. There is good reason to believe that during this ideal period, public donations for innovation, research and knowledge have increased by more than 70%. New development is abundant, not just in high-tech fields, but in food production, energy exchange, travel - and trades and biotechnology - I'm not talking about the environment. The economic and pandemic we face may lead to greater creation and drive that the government has emphasized with a number of activities and large financial resources in the research fund and creative branches. Work is now being carried out on the procrastinator for public support of innovation. It reorganizes the national support system and emphasises on serving the whole country well in cooperation with industry, university and rural society and the existing infrastructure. It is important to achieve a successful outcome and to ensure that the service and innovation environment will be ensured. By the activation of human intelligence and intelligence, all of us have the power to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u4	President. I wanted to have a place to talk to. paritaprevir Brynjar the son of Níelsson were forbidden to deny the Holocaust. As members of Congress and nation may know, such cases have been proposed in Congress, bans, and punishments to say foolish, even harmful things. Is not such an expression potentially harmful to the dog there? It seems obvious to some, however, that the average is harmful, that such expression is harmful. I know why. paritaprevir Bristur the Brynjar of Níelsson has expressed his opinion in this matter, including saying: "It was not just nationalistism that practiced genocide in the war and in the years before and after. To form the rulers of the former Soviet Union, they were left without socialists. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. A senator with ironic tone, very good, that the bill may make some changes so that everyone will be punished for making obvious nonsense. I wonder what this bill is like. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son was even more surprising to me yesterday when the prime committee, following the review of the General and Education Committee, stated that the Holocaust had not happened. Now I have to admit I don't understand why. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson supported these rules, but he was opposed to a bill that was physically comparable. Is it possible, then, to forbid the Holocaust's denial at the council and not elsewhere? Is it just the extent of punishment that is the problem? Wants to play. A senator who simply uses censorship to prevent the birth of such claims?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u5	Hv. A senator could also have warned the president that he was going to record this material from the presiding committee, and the president would have been ready to be answered, if that is so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u6	V.E.G. President. It would have been more natural for me to know that the president himself would have responded. To me, it's not quite the same. I can have my rules in my home, what's being done there, and what's in line with guidelines and rules. There is a big difference in my mind when the government that has forced power will use punishment to prevent something that could be harmful, some expression. There are many expressions that are harmful. I have always fought any kind of fanaticism, and it doesn't matter in my mind whether people call themselves known to nationalistism or internationalism or socialism associated with certain men of the past, and if they minimize the perils of many people today, the solution is not to use the pressure of the State and punishment. I'd like to reason with you. What we have here at the council, what we're going to publish, is in my mind a different subject. I'm not suggesting in general that we employ a lot of pressure or censorship, but we can still decide in our own group, in ours, how we have these things. Of course, this can be criticized. I think the President himself could answer a lot better. But I can totally agree that we need some ethical guidelines on what we're doing here at the council in these matters as everybody else. I'm not going to get punished. I want to be reasonable in general, and that's why I'm in politics. I'm fighting extremes every day, even here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u7	Mr. President. Imagine if your coffee cup cost 50,000 bucks. This morning, the leavened bread, about 100,000 k. or your new car, about half a billion dollars. This isn't too far away, because it would be the case if we hadn't taken two 0's of the crown. Today, 100 years have passed since it was decided to record the Icelandic king in particular. In the late 1920's, U.S.A., the Danish kroner was a pair with about $2.00's in the case of the Danish kroner. If we take into account the change in currency in 1981, the Danish kroner's gang is $2,100 old U.S. dollar. Thus, the value of the Icelandic crown against Danish is only 0.05% of what it was in 1920, corresponding to a decline of 99.95% in this 100 - year period. The problem in the world is the phenomenon that's lost as much. Some think that ploughs, with low value to the dollar, are good economic instruments, but these same people forget that ganglocks always happen at the expense of the public. With a gang drop, valuables are taken from the public, where the crowns of ordinary people become less valuable, the imported goods are raised, and the value is transferred to exports, such as the export. With the decrease in the crown, inflation is increasing. Last year there was a dollar in the currency that got the most sick. We are among those with Kyrgyzstan, Mozambique, and Georgia. Mr. President. So I'll ask you: Isn't the Icelandic kroner fully developed? Is a 100 - year tragedy not enough? [[The president calls.]] Why don't we let the Icelandic crown fall asleep in a thorny sleep?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u8	A respectable president. On the equilibrium days of 1,935. On February, the Research Centre is conducted in disability, the Women's Socialist Association of Iceland, and the National Institute for the Development of a seminar on the violence against disabled women. Educators, representatives of the community of disabled persons, and representatives of the government will be called together to cooperate on knowledge and experience in order to develop ways to prevent violence against disabled women. International studies show that disabled women are far more likely to be violent than other women. Despite this, and despite serious human rights violations, violence against disabled women is still hidden and invisible and rarely responded by the authorities. Studies have shown that there has been an increase in violence against women and children in the Covid-19 pandemic, also in Iceland. In this country, governments have responded by using new technologies to develop the 112th Commission for awareness and to help cope with and prevent violence. The U.S. Marshal's report on violence against disabled persons shows an appalling manifestation of violence, as bots against disabled people. quote, with permission of the president: ▪ Foreign research reveals that disabled people are at high risk as victims of violence. Studies also show that people who are disabled are more likely to suffer violence than are those who cheat. In particular, young women who suffer from disability are more likely to experience sexual abuse. The authors of a foreign study say that children with developmental inhibition of 4.6 times more likely than innocent children to be exposed to sexual violence. And later, he says: In this way, many manifestations can be developed. And one of the manifestations is that the United Nations has not legally established a UN agreement on the affairs of disabled people. An international report says that disability is a normal part of human life, that almost everyone suffers temporary or permanent disability during his life. People in Iceland are entitled to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disorientated People, and they will immediately be legalized. Where's the bill from this government that was supposed to be in here in December?? Is it not violence to disabled people to refuse to contribute to it?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u9	President. Jobs are one of the most important issues in the present world and come to be that way in the years to come. In this context, I have come up here many times to talk about the importance of Iceland becoming a competitive filmmaker on a global scale and will continue to keep calling on it. V.E.G. The secretary of transportation and unit administration has said, on permission of the president: ▪ A greater opportunity is to support even more in the country's film projects and raise reimbursement of production costs to 35%, as is done in countries that compete with Iceland for projects. President. It is more painful than tears to accept the fact that Iceland is repeatedly missing large foreign assignments because the country is not competitive in this article, even film projects where Iceland itself is the site of history. We live in a time of crisis, unemployment is increasing day by day, and we have lost the nation's former industry. But here's a solution, a respectable president. There is loss of substance in the world and a high demand for new films. Movie making is an export. It is, in fact, amazing what filmmaking could do to fill the tourist service, bring enormous sums of money into the economy, and remain an important source of lasting employment. V.E.G. A minister of education and culture deserves praise for the new and cool film policy she's proposed last year, but it's time to follow through. In his New Year's program, the secretary of transportation said that such projects as filmmaking and creative articles have tremendous opportunities to expand and build up the quality of life ahead of us. He also said: "The future is bright if we succeed in taking advantage of our opportunities. " President. If we succeed, I will stop at the wording. You see, there is no need to doubt, just to do, and to do so right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u10	A respectable president. Investment increases the competitiveness of countries and supports increased economic growth by increasing production of the government and the private sector. Investment in the infrastructure increases the number of jobs, improving the standard of living. Despite significant increases in transport resources and other infrastructures, we still have a long way to reach an acceptable position when it comes to infrastructure. Iceland and I live so well with a rich pension fund, and they are important to us, our savings to the upper end. The situation is that the pension fund is full of money, and this money needs to get to work. In the low - interest environment in which we now live, long - term and safe investments are needed. There must be an interesting option for a pension fund. I heard it on the news this weekend at the highest. A secretary of transportation insisted on offering proposals for a waterway soon, and I am very happy to do so. I can't wait to see what's going on. I'd like to use this opportunity to remind them of my synopsis proposal since November, No. 317, where we suggest that a minister be assigned to provide design, financing, implementation, and treatment of the Dizziness Way on his own. This would give private people an opportunity to deal with what the government has been discussing for 50 years, to the point of failure. Here we suggest that the private initiative will be trusted to carry out the project from A to Z without the government's funding but instead be authorized to pay dues for a certain amount of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u11	V.E.G. President. A year ago, the members of the Independence Party requested a report from the Prime Minister for infrastructure and national security. The report has now become clear, and it is an extensive work done at the scene of the city's conservation. In our request, we asked members of the Independence Party for a general discussion on whether the United States would organise for its principal infrastructure on the basis of national security. The report refers to the results of an intervention team on extensions, which says that the process needs to be simplified by the preparation of electricity transport systems where individual nationally important measures have taken a long time in administrative management. To this end, the campaign team contributes to legalizing a joint planning decision across rural boundaries due to implementation of the electrical transport system. The bill is being negotiated on the basis of these proposals. This is a great cause for rejoicing. Of course, it remains recognized that the primary responsibility for the implementation of organizational matters is generally in the community, but at the same time a state's right to exercise general planning policies and responsibilities according to events. Please note that in our neighboring countries, such as Denmark and Norway, national planning authorities have comparable sources. It is my hope that this report will receive a profound and objective discussion in the Sales of the Generals. We need to make a move to ensure national security, and for that, we need to strengthen and build the community's key for the sake of the community. By permission of the president, I quote the final words of the report: ▪ National and national infrastructure is either the custody of private, state, or rural society. The view that the State is organized because of the basic infrastructure of national security and the country in general has been established. V.E.G. President. That's what awaits us.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u12	V.E.G. President. Icelanders have the opportunity to develop the green industry in the field of blues. Here on earth are ideal conditions on a global scale, clean waters, and vast seas. The pioneers and investors are interested, but the laws and regulations are not good enough yet. A general council needs to create a firm framework for this industry and create a clear policy. For the General Assembly, there is an arrangement for the material presented here to be held in the autumn Parliament along with the Council of the Agency. In addition to feeding animals and humans, algae also produce much of the earth's oxygen. Fences clean the water, and this can also be used as an adrift. Some microscopic species are oil - rich and can produce biofuels. Clearly, then, the sustainable development of algae and increasing their usefulness can help reduce the impacts of climate change and have a positive effect on our earth's ecosystems. The global market for algae is large and increasing. According to a report by The Insight Partners (ReportLinker) on the world market for algae since June 2020, the market is predicted to grow to $3.3 billion in 2027. The report also shows that the growing demand for food and drinking products that are derived from algae is found in many foods, cosmetics, and industrial products, such as paint, tires, ketchup, toothpaste, and so on. According to an analysis of the Marine mall from November 2018, worldwide growth in algal happen is estimated to be 7.4% per year to 2024 and predicted to be about $1.1 billion in 2024. This article has many interesting opportunities for Icelandic activities. By investing in education, research, and pioneers in this area, Iceland can develop a place among the national leaders in the full - time use of the sea, and in the field, and in the development of small areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u13	Mr. President. Island is a nursing home for a teenage girl located in an Eyjafjörður band. There are some girls who are in a difficult place in life who will no doubt have saved some of their lives and improved many lives. A lot of discussions have been made about this treatment home recently because the current employer has canceled his contract. A child - welfare clinic has announced that the work will not be extended again and that the house will be shut down. This is because getting involved in the business is not financially acceptable for the Children's Protection Agency. The concern has been expressed by former clients, caregivers, and staff in Lathland. One girl who protests a planned closure describes her stay as follows: I was 17 years old when I went to Lathland. This is the only treatment center I've ever been to that I've really been to. Island is the place that saved both my life and my mental health. When you read the experiences of girls and caregivers, you have to wonder where our community really is if financial conditions determine whether it is working or not. Social Affairs and Child Services must agree with me that it is unacceptable to close Lysalland without any immediate intervention. I'm the highest. A minister to get to the ground in this matter, and quickly, eliminate the uncertainty and avoid the shutdown of the land of Lysa.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u14	Mr. President. Today, I plan again to call attention to the waiting lists of our health - care system. I'm going to call attention to the affairs of the children and young people who are having trouble talking. Problems with speech can be caused by a variety of factors, including difficulty in speaking and speaking language, problems with voice, problems with performing sound, staring, swallowing difficulties, and many other problems involving speech. Obviously, the sooner you deal with the problems, the sooner your children can have smooth relationships with adults, teachers, and peers. Children's speech problems greatly reduce the likelihood of normal social relations and thus reduce the development of children. Today, there are estimated to be some 6,600,800 children in waiting lists for the aid of speech pathologists, but only 7◯8 such are graduated each year from the University of Iceland. This morning, according to a report by a Einarsdóttir named Signý Einarsdótttist, the reason for these long models is a provision set out by Iceland's Medical Insurance Convention, which was established several years ago. The government only pays attention to speech training for children with serious speech problems. It means that after two years of university education, speech pathologists will have to work at an institution or in a rural society before entering a contract with health insurance and can start working independently. This law for two years is particularly bad because there are not many jobs available to institutions and rural communities for speech pathologists. Newly written speech pathologists need to work under the guidance of an experienced speech pathologist for six months before receiving permission from a surgeon. It seems that it is becoming a health authority's compulsion to place a stone in a private business if he is in hand somewhere. Waiting lists are expensive to society, but much more expensive to those on that list of lists. For two years, speech pathologists, most of their young children, do not have time to sit on the waiting lists after receiving assistance to speech training, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]] It needs to be cleaned up.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u15	Mr. President. Communicians see the inability to perform their most important services because of the imminent lack of speech pathologists, the lack that exists because newly written speech pathologists have to work for state or rural society for two years before they are allowed to negotiate with health insurance and thus work in speech clinics. On the other hand, the facilities available for state and rural society have been very few, and at the same time, waiting lists are piled up in the speech clinic. It is estimated that some 800 children will wait in the capital area and in the whole country in 2,000 children. Like so many aspects of the government's way of health care, this makes no sense to most people. But it is not just speech pathologists who live in a state of professional illogical, illogically impaired freedom of work on the part of a government in which they live. A group that sometimes speaks of the importance of employment freedom. The discussion has not been established very well, but earlier this month the health - care minister set out a Regulation with the corresponding physical impairment criteria for physical therapy. Newly written physical therapists have to work for two years with the state before they get to work in a living room. Today, there is not enough work for all newly graduated physical therapists to do. So we might be in a position where a newly graduated physical therapist may have to wait for a government job, and at the same time, the public is still waiting for the services of a physical therapist with associated and unnecessary negative consequences. Mr. President. There are no clear, professional reasons for this. Medical therapists perform a wide range of tasks and tasks both within state-running institutions as well as in privately active physical clinics. The project is simply neither more complex nor more remarkable in institutions than it is in private rooms. There's a designer sitting in private rooms waiting to happen, which is a possible plan for the government. A growing waiting list for physical therapists is then just a sacrifice, once again.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u16	Mr. President. I'm thinking about the answers made by the prime minister last night to ask why. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi, son of Kristinsson, of the right of students to unemployment. The minister, in his reply to a general action in behalf of the people in the country, walked around the nation like a hot cat ignoring the problems that especially confront students. For many years, students focus on the basic growth of student loans. The big change that needs to take place on the student loan system is simply that people can survive the loans and they don't have to work with them. But how has that been? 72% of students work with students to support themselves. A fourth student believes that work affects their performance in school. The reason is simple. She's been too low, she's been too low for too many years. In fact, more than a year ago, when we agreed to a new student loan law, a great deal directed that people must be able to survive the move, and yesterday a minister told us that, of course, students should try to secure alimony. But how's that going? The basic contribution today is unchanged from what it was a year ago, before we changed the loan system, 189,500 bucks. every month for nine months each year. This amount should be trusted by students. At the same time, they are forbidden to seek unemployment benefits, for despite the fact that a working student's salary pays unemployment insurance in funds, as if by another worker's wages, this large group is not entitled to receive insurance. Over this time, students have repeatedly referred, and in the past nine months, students of the student movement have sent one distress call after another to the government. [[The president calls.]] The failure of the government to provide financial security for students is disturbing. [[The president calls.]] Students deserve better.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u17	V.E.G. President. At any rate, discussions here in the Assembly Hall are of different origins, depending on purpose and motive. I'm not going to give this speech because I believe I have seen the light of the discussions that are being conducted here. In many cases, you may feel that the discussion is not very effective or that she does not leave much behind. Last night, however, we discussed the acquisition and distribution of vaccine and how fast we are able to build defenses so that the world will go back on its way. We also discussed the price - free growth based on 40 years of age laws, and it was suggested that we live in a totally modified community situation, social and economic. Now this morning, I read of new predictions from the International Bank and Iceland Bank and there are a lot of things that we talked about here yesterday. You see, we live in a completely modified economy, and we change focus on economic management, which has increased the strength of society to cope with economic traumas, such as the consequences of Covid-19. Despite nearly one third of export shrinkages, foreign trade did not disappear, and the appearance of future years will be reduced if we succeed in the process of vaccination. This often happens in conditions such as the Covid crisis has led to the core parts. They will test the entire economy, homes, companies, the public and the economy and will draw out the benefits of the changes they have made. As we continue to be vigilant and patient, there is a basis for modest optimism. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u18	Mr. President. The health system in Iceland is gradually decommissioned by man. Now that never before, political Orthodoxism has become a threat to life. It was that way, and it has been, as we know, for a few years that the list of waitings has been longer than usual, but now during the last few weeks, the stone has been removed. We hear that tests have been made for women, especially for women, and particularly for women who wait to find out if they have cancer, e.g. of breast or of the cervix. These arrangements have been changed without apparently an acceptable solution elsewhere. Mr. President. This is intolerable, and as I say, there are a few women now waiting to live. They wait for a cervical smear to be picked up from cardboard boxes and sent to Denmark for research. They are waiting for the testimonial test results to be observed. Mr. President. This is completely unacceptable. It's got to stop.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u19	A respectable president. Perhaps I would like to begin this discussion today to reflect on the way we understood the matter on December 7 of this magazine. But then the first transporter was the case. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, gone and gone. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir ran into the gap. There was a lot of criticism as to how much limitations seemed to be in the way the matter had been worked. There was a lot of open questions, and the members of the committee declared that much was to be considered in the matter and fought for one another to state that the matter would have to be taken to the committee between the 2nd and 3rd. The talk, just as a review, concluded with the climax. A president now sitting on the President's chair, I don't have this written in front of me, in effect said that the case would be taken up at that point, i.e. before 2nd. it would be held. This was certainly done at a meeting of the Committee on December 8, 2000. but it's not a follow-up opinion or anything for us general senators. So before the discussion began, I should have been assigned to a meeting board and asked if it would be inappropriate for the chairman of the case to make a clear explanation as to what would have happened to the visitors who attended the committee on December 8. There is no evidence in a committee study that was placed here before the committee was visited by visitors. I wanted to keep this up and direct it to the highest level. Although it's too late in my case, those who are back on the rosary are probably interested in hearing the views presented before the committee and may be in fulfillment and explanation for the vast gaps at the beginning of the hearing. Everyone, let me tell you, seemed to think the matter had to be addressed between the 2nd and 3rd. Of course, that is not necessarily a reasonable position toward us members of the Parliament, especially us who are not of the fasting committee, which is about the matter. Work committee, this is the arrangement for this discussion. I'd like to review just one and a half months, since the matter was being discussed at the beginning. ... that this is about putting in a parking ticket so that a company with 50 employees or more, that's the watch that you have to pass in order to agree with this, needs to meet certain conditions, by permission of the President: Until a private partner informs a partner file that the percentage of each species is not less than 40%. Today's fines can study from 10,000 K. ... toa hundred00,000K. daily) In other words, this is a change in several laws. This is a change in the law of partnerships, a change in private partnership laws, a change in social law, and a change in social law. In any case, it is being proposed to allow guilty permission to be put in with those enterprises which have not reached a defined percentage in terms of gender division. I later come to viewpoints that focus on how much equality is involved in this idea or procedure or bill, depending on how we approach it. However, I would like to remind you of the points presented in the Committee of the Management Board, which are signed by the Committee. Councilmen of the Central Party, Ísleifsson Isafon and Sigurður Páll Jónsson, say by permission of presidents: ▪ The Motion asked two questions about the bill held under Stefánsson Motorsson, a professor and specialist in social rights. Then, by permission of the president, I am able to address Már Stefánsson's answer to the questions of the committee: It should be kept in mind that the social freedom and the following occurrences of their property rights protected by the Constitution's terms on various aspects of the government, including the legislature, scr. Also, Article 11. MSE. For this reason, the principle is that corporations control their own affairs as well as those of their owners. This right, however, can be impaired if such impairments are supported by grammatical views, including average - scale views. That would be, for example. It is a perfunctory view to try by sentence to match the proportions between men and women in some companions' governments. A moderate degree, though, must be taken into consideration. It means looking for ways that will impair the minimum rightness of partners to control their own concerns and possessions, but it can still result in the loss of reaching the target. In the case of any member of a state or community, there are far more sources of authority in order to establish laws of the above kind. Thus, a existing bill may be compatible with such associates. In addition, Stefán Stefánsson, professor and specialist in social rights, describes his position that it is going far too far to introduce these burdensome rules, guilty legal rights, day tickets, punitive day tickets, to private companies. It seems possible to control the views involved in public companies, but it's too far gone. In this context, we need to review evidence support in the bill including treatment with indinavir, including tipranavir and in combination with indinavir and indinavir/ritonavir. Search examples in Norway and beyond. But it speaks of registered stock markets. Of course, there is a question of whether this would be the rights to the Constitution and the other regulations Stefán Már Stefánsson makes in his reply to the committee, which is entirely different from what is being done here, stretching all the way down to a private company that has 50 or more employees. This is a point we would have had to get much deeper and more comprehensive information about here in the conference, not just to the sudden arrival of the visitors the day after the discussion was delayed, but to get someone attached to it. We also see this in the bill's report that these proportions have been getting even pretty fast. The politics are here trying to step into a process that seems to be a little natural and is the goal of achieving progress. But I feel that the great mental attitude and intervention of this situation are not appropriate, especially when we receive warning words as experienced as did Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson in these matters. Of course, it is quite possible in itself that in a time when most cases are in one way or another about the Covid actions, and to support the development of the country's business through the present trials, and we know all too well, there is under the support of the members of the state of Congress, which is going on in a very questionable way, in order to say a mild word, additional guilty regulations and pressure laws. This sort of thing can be discussed at any time or at the highest. It is directed by the president. But I like the timing of a lot of things because of not good, and it explains why. The evidence of this issue, as is the case with so many environmental issues these days, is burned to the same extent as many of them, i.e. Either it's a skin wound or putting out a case to pick up a box that may seem to be the thing, so as to be able to say behind our back: We were just taking this fight and the other thing - without real odds that the situation might lead us toward the goals set. Strangely, as I allow myself to call it, the issues that really matter to the greater equality will be affected by a different kind of criticism, but if they were to appear on their own instead of in the shadows, I'll let me say, paint like these. I'd like to let myself say that this case is very, very painful. The discussion that took place on December 7, with the members of the council they could visit, before it was finished. The president arranged matters so wisely to postpone a discussion and to send the case to a committee, indicating that there is no convictions in the case of any of those who have put themselves in it properly. Senators, especially members of the board of directors, who had then placed themselves on the committee in advance, the members of the committee. Workaholics, were very busy explaining that this case was part of the problem. I answered, if I remember correctly, at what. Friðbertsson There was no doubt in his mind that this matter had to go to a material and meditated on the committee again because it would be absolutely incorruption to settle the matter in the way it was in the chamber of December 7. I just want to do it again, as I started my speech, pointing it to a respectable president if it's not possible to be included here in the discussion of the character of the case. Of course, an authority is the same as the first carrier, so it should be slow down. I saw what. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir here at the council hall earlier and I just want to cheer up. A senator for the discussion. This gives other members of the council the opportunity to have a word with the first official in answer to each of them, to answer, and to resist. A senator who missed the beginning of the second. I checked the 1st. when the case was initially recommended. It was now half-teenth 13th. Only two senators held talks there, on the one hand. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir and the other. paritaprevir The Independence Party, Brístís Haraldsdóttir. Of course, the comicry of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir is one of the representatives of the case and the prospective member of the Independence Party who speaks for these views as well as it would be very interesting to have her here for the discussion. But 1st. So it wasn't to make much progress. The point was that there seems to be very little work on the committee and is now back in. I have to admit that I actually figured it out, considering how the matter was discussed here on December 7, but that it would be printed with the information presented at this additional meeting of December 8. Here was Professor Stefán Stefánsson, an expert on the social rights, who wrote this excellent review that seemed to be the reason for creating all members of the Independence Party at that time were on the committee with a warning that it might be a bit difficult to put a hand at the source of the warning. It was just ahead of us. Congress officials simply did not realize how poor and ill the situation was until the discussion was started. This appears to have been settled by the Committee. There are seven senators who sign. There are all members of the committee except members of the Central Party who seem to have been more fortunately involved in some committee hearing before the matter was taken out of the committee, and I would like to thank them. The delegates of Ólafur Issuuson Sigurður Páll Ísleifsson of Jónsson for this. But before my time ends in this first talk, let me mention that we too need to take this matter in a larger context. Is this what burns most when it comes to equalizing the position of the sexes? Does anyone think women of the leading groups are concerned about the proportion of gender in the administrations of a particular enterprise? I think that huge women's classes, so we take as an example of nurses and teachers, in which women are in much greater part, think it is far more equal to the fact that they groups have improved the choice of potential employers, that these groups are more easily, if their active force is requested elsewhere than in the state of state, by negotiating with diverse employers, private candidates in the various fields. It is far more equal and will support the pay development of these groups than whether a rag camp in a town with 52 employees has a specific sex combination in a government that may meet once a month. It's some sort of high-class social approach. I am absolutely convinced that those women are really looking for us to be working here to equal opportunities, away from any kind of people, not to ensure equal conclusions, but to equal conclusions. It's a prescientism that doesn't belong in the society we live in. We are to make sure that people have equal opportunities, whether for education or for work. But we should avoid getting so far into every area of society that we are beginning to make rules that are supposed to force a particular conclusion. Of course, people, if at all possible, should have the opportunity to do and work with what is best for them. Of course, we know that sexual interests are different, and I think that in these matters it is possible to approach matters from the real world, what really is happening, instead of forceing some conclusion, where the exchange of gender is equal to ten. The walls of the land become 50 percent of women and men. The U.S. drama teachers will be equal between men and women. Nurses will be as women as men, and so on. Of course, this will be a much better community if we just focus on achieving equal opportunities and not equal conclusions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u20	A respectable president. It's a matter we were discussing before Christmas, and I'm one of its transporters. Often, when the discussion is over, and such a long time goes by, you just want to reset. I'm one of the transporters of this case and I've done it for two reasons, there's two reasons why I'm doing this case. It is, on the one hand, the simple argument that when we have laws, I find it very normal to have laws if people don't follow the law. It's just a general procedure, and I think it's normal. Of course, we have many examples of this. We know that, for example. from the discussion of annual accounts back then. We had a law that companies should return their annual bills, and they were not doing well. As soon as a bill of year had the opportunity to use sufficiency, annual accounts were greatly improved. Of course, there are long legal cases, and I find it reasonable that if laws are not fulfilled, there are opportunities to use some kind of wood code. Then there's the other friend who's equal to the friendship. I simply believe that it is too important for society up to our use of both sexes and sex whenever it is divided. Unfortunately, while we are at the front of an equal when it comes to equality, for many years we have been in the first place in terms of equality, we are still not there. There have been many other findings and evidence in research that companies are generally more successful when they have width in their management group. Of course, it is possible to move back during the discussion and ask: Why do we recommend personal business in a town about how they should order their governments? Of course, it is a discussion that was taken at the time of those laws. If there's anyone on their pants that there's a complete delusion and a complete confusion, I'm just urging the same people to put out a bill of self-discreeting. Yet, that would be clearer. But I believe that unfortunately, we need to have some rules in this regard. I wish we didn't have to. Sadly, though, it is my opinion that we need such laws. It is also natural to have laws against those who do not respect laws and regulations. I could not keep track of those who spoke ahead of me, so I don't think I'll have this speech anymore for now and rather use the opportunity to come back for discussion if necessary. But I heard the case go back to what it was. The job committee can handle the points presented here. That must be the best thing to do. Of course, it would be preferable to have more comments on the subject and to have some knowledge that it had happened in the meantime so that I had confidence that the committee could resolve the matter again and that we could make it legal in this spring council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u21	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. The equal issues are the strength of our society, and I think it may be said that more than a part of the male government has an equal opinion in mind, while wanting to select the best at each time. To achieve a goal, as in the sex park law puts it, that equality is achieved by society in this country, all I understand is about 13%. That's why I think that bringing in some fines and fines is a little out of the question because it could put us off this straight path that we've walked ever on in any agreement and harmony, I think, since the law was given over ten years ago. Therefore, I do not consider these forced measures the right way to do so. I'm sure there's a way to support equality, and that's exactly what we're doing in the middle class. We are to correct what needs to be corrected in equality, but forced action, as outlined here, does not comfort me or the proposed guilt. I'd like to ask you what. A senator believes that this law does not diminish the important factors that women already have, and that this law can actually turn into its opposite side.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. He speaks of equality, that they are important to our community, and I agree with it. I forgot to mention in my speech earlier that this has become our exporter of Icelanders. It is not just that we stand early in the comparison made each year; rather, we have used this in our developing help. When foreign senators come here to meet Icelandic senators, and I've received some of these companies, there are two cases I've been specifically asked into, and all these groups have wanted to talk to me. I think there are two of our most important issues in the export and development aid. Hv. A senator asks me if I believe this must be a premeditation order that would be the responsibility of the law. No. I'll answer it straight. I'm not afraid of it. In fact, I don't know if these laws had a lot of control, I wondered. I have felt that the discussion on this subject since its introduction to the council shows that while the law says, "I don't necessarily mean very much, " everyone says they're supportive of equality. There's no one who says, "No, I don't support equals." We're also talking about, like, cot. A senator entered, that people want to choose the most qualified, and I agree with it. I think me and what. A senator argues that women can be just as capable as men when it comes to choosing people in corporate or management groups. That's what I'm just tired of. Hv. A senator talked about, that we are ever going along in harmony, but unfortunately, it's just that it's too slow. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u23	Mr. President. Thank you. The answer to this question is that it's only positive that we Icelanders are exported, that reputation is good, and Iceland is highly recommended in surveys on equality, and that's positive. But I think these laws must have been taken into account. It may have taken a while, but the goal is to get caught. There is no need for more than that. 13% of the time we reach the level of the law. One question is, Won't we have reached this goal after perhaps a year, a year, and a half, two years? Then the purpose is accomplished. But entering such a penalty now - can it not lead to prejudice against women who take over when this is done with some form of authority? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u24	A respectable president. My reasons are that it is unacceptable if the law is not followed. Of course, if we have not achieved the goal set by law, which is now ten years old or more, that would be unacceptable. As a result, it is reasonable to respond so that some kind of wood can be used. Then I'm going to go back to what I mentioned earlier, that there were two reasons why I was supporting this case. One thing is that when we have laws, it's only natural that they be followed. If they are not followed, it is only natural for us to have some kind of penalties to force people to follow the law. Hv. A senator fears that this could lead to some kind of prejudice against women who would then be in control. These are exactly the reasons against the bill to settle the sensory functions of an enterprise. We women who, for some reason, would be powered in would pay and be prejudiced by some kind of thing, that we were in control only on the grounds that we were women. [[The president calls.]] It is not always fun to be in that position. But all that is true in that case is that we need to prove ourselves and show that we are responsible for the work assigned to us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u25	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For her input, Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir's Enthusiasm. I have to admit, the bill doesn't seem very independent, but it does. In his speech, a senator tried to review it, and in reply to her previous reaction, she answers how she explains her interest in the subject and its suggestions. I have some questions for the senator. First of all: This is actually about all the partners, it's about partnerships, private partnership laws, partnership laws, partnership laws. That's what's up. A senator with no distinction between private partnerships in this context and public members? Counts 'em out. A senator that the same kind of rules apply to private parts? The bill is sure to include it, but I might want to get some sleep. A senator goes deeper into the argument of approaching this in such a way that private members of 50 or more employees fall below. At the same time, I'd like to ask who. A member of the council, in her opinion, might be considered to cancel the law suit now intended to impose a guilty plea rather than a guilty order now. It was an option when it was wrong. A senator decided if she would be a member of this case and asked if the law should be canceled? [[The president calls.]] Or was it obvious that it was all along that it was taking place?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u26	A respectable president. I've been understanding a question for a while. A senator, but I hope I got it. The bill is out of the way of enforcing the laws that were accepted at the time. Hv. One senator asks what kind of peer form it is. It's my understanding that the law was given at the time, and what we're responding to is that it's just a guilt warrant if people didn't follow that law. If I correctly understood the second question, would it be possible to abandon the laws that were approved ten years ago - I do not understand why? A senator right? - then I encouraged those who question the value of their law to present a bill to cut off the law as such. I wouldn't support that bill. Hv. A senator admitted that this was not very independent. Well, I don't know. There are many independents who disagree with me. I'm the only independent man, I think, who writes this excellent bill, but it seems to me that some of my colleagues have supported it on committee. Opinions have been replaced by such methods within the Independence Party and undoubtedly in many parts of the community, and I think it will be. A senator knows that discussion well. Of course, she was standing here at the time when those laws were given. At that time, there was a very different opinion among members of the Independence Party about their value. I think I said that, when we were discussing this case for the first time, that in my career, since I started to interfere with politics, I'm sure I've been going into all sorts of circles in what's the best and the right way to get equal. I don't know if I'd been supporting this bill at the time, i.e. the number of genders found in governments when it was found 10 years ago. But I now believe, ten years later, that it is necessary, so I also believe that it is normal to enforce the law of guilt.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u27	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir That's the joke of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir. There may be two questions left behind. There are other laws. A senator has studied where a comparable law is missing? May we expect more adjustments, so to speak, from what? A senator, whose professional life is weighed down under pressure to deal with such a lack of employment? Then maybe just a plea, if that's what it is. A senator has time: The Senator countered that the most important export products today are north-south and equal. It's often in speeches that attracts people. But there's a reason. A senator of the opinion that Arctic affairs and equality, as important as both, are more important today than the sea route, energy, and nature?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u28	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I haven't had any specific legal check on whether there's any parking tickets or repairs in any other places, I'll admit it. And in general, I'm not in favor of a lot of pressure on my professional life, so they need to be very convincing. In the case of society and gender equality, I think it's important that we use both senses. Sadly, we have not achieved the results we should have had despite the degree of gender equality. I may have gone too far, or I may have been wronged when I spoke of Arctic and equality as our main exporter. I'm talking foreign, foreign policy highlight. I think our pros are our major export products, so I'll reiterate it. Nevertheless, in the north, there is an enormous opportunity for the export of knowledge, what living in northern regions is like. In fact, equality plays a big role in that, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u29	Mr. President. Like others, I want to thank you. paritaprevir Her fine speech, although brief, was the life of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir. Like what? A senator knows that there is a letter or review from a highly esteemed professor, Stefán the son of Stefánsson, in which he also departs. To freedom of society and rights of possession. I think I'm sure I will. A member of the council, one of the representatives of the matter, made a careful and thorough examination of this statement by Professor Stefán Már. He says that freedom of society and the experiences of its ownership are protected by the legal requirements of the Constitution on the part of the State. He goes on to say that the existing bill could be compatible with members of a state and community, while more doubt could exist in private companies. That's a word from him. He goes on to say: In any case, that law would have to be clear and predictable. As a result, I'd like to ask you why. A senator who is now located in the spectrum focusing on the protection of property rights, freedom of society and free employment, whether she is not concerned about the protection of property rights, social freedoms, and such factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u30	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. He's got a review that's been given, and I'm starting to wonder. A job board to carefully review the reviews received. But I've understood this as if the law that was actually adopted ten years ago was actually being considered, and if the regulations that require a certain proportion of both genders in the administration of a constitution are met. To make a comment now that those who do not fulfill the law may have to pay off fines, I think that there is a certain hairline to the original argument that could have been made. So I refer back to it that if people think that the law that stands equal to the percentage of sex in corporate governments is in some way wrong, then people should ask for a bill to remove them. I have not seen much progress in this discussion since they were accepted and since that argument took place at the time. I have not seen many people throw it forward or worry that they are under attack on the rights or freedom of society. But I have also said so in reply and in question about this very matter that I have a clear understanding of this point of view. As often as it is, we need to weigh certain viewpoints. And the perspective on the importance of society's fully generating both powers is very important to me, and it is only natural to put some of these laws into force to promote them because we do not have time to follow this slow pace. In terms of clarity and perception in the law, I just want to encourage a sharp one. A professional health committee to review these tips. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u31	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I'd like to remind myself and review from the discussion of December 7, where we both attended and participated, that it would be a question for a legal senator. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son should be made in the constitution the requirement for a public need. He referred to gender proportions as something that would not be applied to the public but that would be the political objective that people would be free to play the game and to put first. [[The president calls.]] I just want to mention this. At the same time, I'd like to ask. A senator is not worried that there is no charge. The tax is adding to this penal tax, and there is no way for anyone to sue the superior authority. [[The president calls.]] Isn't that what the senator is worried about?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u32	A respectable president. I was afraid that I would fail the test when December 7 was mentioned, that somehow I should remember what happened then. But I appreciate it. A senator for recalling that at that time this matter was being discussed. paritaprevir Brunes the son of Níelsson gave a speech. I have to tell you right now, I feel like I'm a bad guy. paritaprevir Doves of Níelsson's son in general have quite a good and pleasant speaker, and it may not be surprising that very often me and Brudur Níelsson will agree on things, for we are in the same category. But it's not always that, and it sounds like a dog. paritaprevir In this regard, Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Izzzun and Braunzur Níelsson's son agree more. Hv. A senator introduced political goals. I'm in politics, yes, and I think it's a very important goal that we achieve full equality because I believe that the individual's freedom and freedom are never real unless we live in equality. As far as the last question is concerned, I'm only referring to what. A professional health committee is considering this aspect of the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u33	Mr. President. The bill will work out to make a date unless the sex - ratio laws of society's governments and boils are followed. I've tore it here and I've done it before. paritaprevir The horror of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, who is one of the bill's carriers, that it's possible and that it's just pretty obvious that this bill is going too far. I also mentioned earlier that Iceland has a high level of equality surveys and is of good quality. The first general law on equality between women and men in this country was adopted in the General Assembly of 1976. The goal of the law was to contribute to the equality of the sexes in every aspect of society. Since then, these laws have been changed several times, and today there are laws on equal status and male and female rights since 2008. Women in this country have been very active in the workforce over the last few decades, with the most familiar professional activity in the world. It even came. ... pastTheH living room two years ago. Within OECD, the average female involvement is about 57%. If there are sexually transmitted legislation in Iceland, several attempts have been made in that area over the years. In 1927, Ingibjörg H. Bjarnason, the fine senator, gave a bill that suggested that women also be placed on the committees of the Generals, which they did not have access to, who protected the common people. There was a Ingibjörg proposal at that time. Women have been strengthening their positions in various fields, and women are more involved in corporate governments than in the past and are, of course, enjoyable. Distinguished gender ratios can be classified according to whether they are available or demand, as it were, i.e. whether or not the reasons are looking for the women themselves or in the companies and in the employment environment. If the sex palace is explained by the evidence, there are reasons for women. They do not apply for positions or progress. They may put their family first rather than a career. However, if there is an explanation in the demand, the reasons include: that men prefer men, especially in positions where men are in the greater part. The year 2019 saw the link between Icelandic rulers'attitudes toward sexuality and what they considered to be an explanation for the sex palace lower. For one thing, women were more likely than men to support sexuality. Also, those who believed that the sex balance was more likely to be due to environmental factors or on the demand side were more likely to support sexuality. In addition, women were more likely than men to believe that the sex palace was due to external reasons on the demand side than to look at the forward gate in women themselves. Iceland has a similar look to Norway, which is also high in the list of International Economics for gender equality, but it has also not been successful in matching the sex ratios at its highest level. Incontrovertible positions in the labour market have been investigated, and the causal relationship is really complex and there are side effects between sex standards and family responsibilities for learning and responsibility for executives. Sexual intercourse has been strongly influenced by sexuality laws and has led to a far greater number of women being on the board than before. The first global country to place sexuality for society's governments was Norway in 2003. The objective was to increase the number of women in governments that seemed too few. In a study conducted at the University of Iceland since 2017, the attitude of the executives of employment companies in Iceland was examined for sexuality at Commission positions. It's interesting to go over it a little bit. The interviewers thought that sexuality is not the right way to increase the number of women in management positions within companies. One interviewer said that it would be very easy to find a way past such a system. More places would then be added to the ship rather than to replace people, and such positions would simply be on a punt, as they say, i.e. The employees who held them would in fact have nothing to say to those who had authority over them. They felt that if this route was applied, it would be more likely that incompetent individuals could end up in managerial areas. These findings are noteworthy. Clearly, a small number of people, such as Icelanders, cannot afford to look only in one direction when it comes to management jobs. Icelandic women have been very active at employment, as I mentioned. Since 1980 and 1990, they have had over 70% of their employment involvement. According to the 2019 OECD data, there is a much higher percentage than observed in the countries around us, as the average OECD is 57%, as observed. In the years following the sexuality laws, the ratio has increased. The rationale for greater equilibrium in the management of enterprises has included Be businessistic, based on moral and democratic arguments. Those who are followers of sexuality claim that hostilities in corporate governments are an effective means of reducing sex rights. Business-related evidence suggests that there is a greater level of sensory balance in the management of enterprises, which will improve companies by different means. This results in greater success and profit within the enterprises. The reason is that women and men differ, that women make a different contribution in governments than men, or that they also have women in corporate governments making full use of corporations. Moral evidence points out that women are being discriminated against when they are excluded from government thrones and also that the gender balance in governance is only opposed to the discrimination of individual women by allowing them to have access to positions of influence within companies in order to achieve more righteous practices in society. This suggests that an enterprise should be concerned with increasing the share of women in corporate management. The democratic logic of those who are accompanied by a gender balance in corporate management is that it's democratic that women are also in corporate management. The sex - fertilization law is a matter of gender equality, and it is to be increased in participation, influence, and authority of women. But then there are opposers of sexuality, and what do they say? They point out that sex should not matter, and that famines will only lead to more prejudice toward women and to the sex - fertilization laws in corporate governments will damage their attempt to achieve equality. They also believe that the law can prevent qualified individuals from being selected, and it has a negative impact on competition. Others point out that it harms the financial supply of the enterprises that cannot choose the most qualified of individuals in the management of the company. It has been suggested that the laws on sexuality in corporate governments are symbolic and unlikely to produce a greater level of gender in governments. Even if women were to take over, they would not be allowed access to it. Thus, there are differing opinions on sexuality, and not all agree with him even if he is responsible. In 2015, the impact of sex, age, and education on the expectations of change following the sexuality laws was examined in a BA study at the University of Iceland's Social Sciences School of Ingibjörg Elva Vilbergsdóttir. Results show that when gender and expectations for changes in aspects of social or boiling factors are considered, significant differences are observed. The factors examined were government jobs, company management, funds, the image of the company, or the fund, the gender ratio of the highest non-companyers, and corporate culture. In general, women rather than men feel that the law has a positive effect on a society or a fund. Nearly no woman believes that the law will have negative effects, but men prefer that its effects become negative. But their proportion is low, so to speak. A high proportion of men feel that the law has no effect on society or funds. A high proportion of women also feel that the local law will not affect the society. When considering the relation between age and whether the management board feels that the sex ivra law will affect various aspects of the company or the fund and the education, and whether the management figures believe that the sexal law will affect various aspects of the company or the source's funds, they feel that the law will not affect the factors asked. There was no significant connection between the age, education, and expectation of the administrations to the effect of the sexuality laws on various aspects of the company or the fund. Thus, a person's gender can be said to affect the expectations of changes in the sex course, but it is not possible to say that the age and education of the rulers will affect the basis of these data. Results show that the attitudes and expectations of female rulers for sexuality are far more positive than those of male governments. In comparison to 37% of men, more than 81% of the rulers have a positive or positive attitude toward the law, which is consistent with the results of foreign studies and other studies conducted here. That's what has even occurred. It is stated that the increase in women in governments can encourage progress in women's management centres within companies, including Because they contribute to making the work environment more effective for women. A law on sexuality in corporate management is therefore important. Mr. President. Equalities are the strength of our society, and I think that a greater part of the male rulers may be said to guide and follow them in general, while I would like to choose the one most suitable at a time. To achieve a goal, such as the sex park laws say, that equality is achieved by society in this country, only 13% is needed. That's what I came up against what I said. paritaprevir That's one of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir's comics. We are not that far from achieving this success. True, it has taken time, and it has been over ten years since the law was given. But we've been taking a straight course to achieve this proportion, and based on the hallway in this case, I would have thought it should have gotten caught in the next year, a year, and a half, or so. Then you ask yourself, " Why is there a guilty presumption now taking place on the last record when we are reaching this goal in a relatively good way, the law's goal of equality in corporate governments? ' All of a sudden, we're going to rock the boat with some fine. Enrolling this guilt right now when we're reaching our goal, when there's only 13% of that we're missing, is unthinking to my judgment, Mr. President, and can set us off off the straight path we've been moving forward and seeing the end. Yes, we can debate whether this would have gone faster, but this is the result. To force men in this regard to the conclusion of a guilty decision, I don't think I'm the right way. Now that the matter is further examined within the Committee, I would like to encourage the men to think it through. I might be able to understand that there would be some action that would begin to take into consideration if we were in a hurry to fulfill these quotas under the law. It may be understandable, then, that someone would discuss the need to do something about it so that we could achieve the results. But it isn't. I'm not entirely certain that these transporters just realized that we were that right in reaching this goal, there's about 13% missing that we're gonna make it, as I've mentioned here several times. I'm not sure everyone figured it out. That's why I think it's very important to go over this now permanently, with that in mind that perhaps there was no need to start this case because it can have certain consequences. I asked, for example. Yeah. paritaprevir The spirit of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir in opposition to whether this could possibly lead to prejudice in this way, resulting in prejudice toward women, and to the whole law. It's possible that this could happen. Have people thought it all the way in terms of that factor? But there are no ways to support equality, and we certainly do so in the Middle East, and we are to correct what must be corrected in the equality laws. At the end, Mr. President, I believe there is a forced operation, the penalty laid up here, reduces the importance of women in the management board and can actually turn into their opposite side. It's a road trip we don't want to go on.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u34	Mr. President. We here discuss the bill for the legislation on the change of partnership laws, private partnership laws, partnership laws and social laws, socialisation laws, sex laws due to the percentage of genders in control. At its core, it is about laying a date sheet on an enterprise while the criteria of sexuality are not met in the social management board. I would like to say as early as possible, Mr. President, that for the purpose of ensuring the equality of men and women, there is no conflict on our part to discuss this matter on the part of the Central Party, which is an equality of men and women among the baseline Icelandic community. What it's all about is that there are certain problems on the bill, and I'm going to do a little on a few of them. The case has been discussed at the scene of the day. Business committee. There we were representing the Central Party, huh? paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson and I, to establish a legal opinion, including some of them. the possibility of conflicting with the rights of property, the Constitution, the fundamental grounds of society rights and the administrative rights. This was done on the part of the Committee by consulting Már Stefánsson, who wrote a letter that I believe was a computer letter, and it is in a material sense taken up in the opinion of the less part of the professional committee that is listed here. For some reason, Mr. President, this letter is not included in the evidence. It is not listed by references, but there are no doubt good explanations. I mention it so that, as far as I know, those who want to learn what Már Stefánsson's viewpoint is, they feel less than they can be found on the Generals' Web site. It is most recently reported that Professor Stefán Már Stefánsson in his letter says that freedom of society and the cases of property rights are protected by the rights of the constitution on various aspects of the government, including the Lawgiver. He also quotes from Article 11. European Convention of Human Rights. He suggests that the principle is that communities control their own affairs and are also considered to be owners of their possessions. He goes on to say that the existing bill may be compatible with members of a country and state. But it continues, with the permission of the president: "There is more doubt in the case of a private company. " I reiterate and stress that the law professor is wondering that there is a doubt there. It is our duty to work at the scene of the Generals to make informed decisions, and by this opinion Már Stefánsson will not be seen. The reason he has expressed the doubt that this bill will run into a constitution, in the case of a private company, should at least leading to a further investigation of this matter. There are a number of factors that need to be made in a different way on the bill. A greater part of the employment board has been identified with a new proposal that makes it clear that the daily pressures of the day's fine are entrusted to the head of the tax. It is said that there is a need for moderate attention to the pressures of day's finesse and to make a decision of sums and to take into consideration, including the following: to the staff, business, and financial resources of the individual, as it is said. This, of course, raises the question, Mr. President, is it not necessary to explain more clearly what is meant by terms of the business and financial strengths of partners and how to interpret these words and how to make fines? Then, in the motions of the greater section, the president's permission states: "The society does not want to be a member of this law, and it can appeal a matter to her invalidation in court. This means that if the government tax manager decided that a business should pay them a day's attention on the company's private option to file a case with the effort and cost that such a lawsuit would bring, of course, of course. In other words, it is nowhere to be found here and, by all means, that a society can sue the administrative decision available on the part of the governor of the state to a higher administrative level. Of course, it's a very serious matter, Mr. President, because it's stated in the bill that these days are admissible. It doesn't say that the lawsuit, if the company were to seek a court order, an order of justice, and a date would fall while it was determined in court whether the government's decision would be passed. This is to hide the public agencies of the local taxpayer a very considerable amount of authority to commit calendars on the business and without their ability to carry a hand in front of their heads except by going to the courts. In the bill we have here, and in the opinion of the greater part, an average is exceeded. There is no evidence that such conduct has anything to do with moderate behavior. The financial value of this day's fine is expressed as up to a hundred thousand dollars. daily, i.e. 3 million a month. That brings us to 36 million each year. These are no small sums, and they do not allow tolerance to make such a decision on the part of the governor of the tax. Of course, people know that it can take a lot of time, and they see the millions and millions of day - to - day occurrences. It must be said, Mr. President, this bill is naturally not ready to be decommissioned. There's really a lot of things about it, like I've mentioned a couple of times. We're all out of flexibility. We're all out of turn. They need to define what is involved in the financial and financial resources involved in how to influence the stress of day - to - day fines. There has been no indication of any size that would lay the basis for a partner's account. We need more analysis and observation. More parties are naturally needed. For example, we have not been given information from the Associations of Business Affairs or their representatives have come to see each other. Business committee. In view of all of this, I would have thought most correctly, Mr. President, in view of all of this, and especially since we have considered here from a legal standpoint that this bill can come across the Constitution's rights, that men would give themselves a better time and more time to look into this matter and consider it before further development is carried out. I have to admit that after the discussion that took place on December 7, the past, perhaps making such a decision, I was surprised to learn that this matter was being reinvestigated at a meeting. I would like to complete my case, Mr. President, by urging you to bear in mind the duties of members of the council that decisions are informed. There's a lot of trouble, and there's a good thing to do, and we're not exactly there. That is why I urge this matter to be set aside.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u35	V.E.G. President. This is a bad case, and another manifestation of what we see regularly is that people use the power of the State, punishment, to interfere with the way we live. A bill recently published how we can express ourselves about past events, about acts of terror in the past. Here's a bill on how we personally decide who is in charge of our companies. It's a thought that's starting to boil in society, i.e. Governments, government authorities, are going to achieve some political objective, or any part, more things at any given time, as if some balance exists in corporate governments and use it to punish them. This is by nature a flimsy way to equal the relevance of the sexes. We cannot afford to use the government's means of forcedness to achieve such a balance. The worst part about this is that most people think it's all right, that the whole point is the whole weekend. You can do anything. What's next? Will the government choose for us a mate to make sure that everyone is walking outside? You're laughing now, you may not laugh in 20 years. All of this has become the most important thing at the same time, and professional life is practically ruined. It's a mess, and we're trying to build it up, and then the first thing you can think of is bringing a bill to fine your business. It's not just smiling, it's funny. It is not right to place a burdensome burden on our job life right now. People have reasoned this out, even people in my category, who I thought were involved in the rights of property, but it's all about it, by being equal to it. The fact that just as many of each sex, if you can say any longer, are in each place, this is not a matter of equality. The concept of equality does not focus on that. We can believe that the proportion of sex being equal to most jobs is desirable. We can consider it desirable, and we can have the view that this is important. I have, for example. the opinion that it is very important for our children's teachers to be just as many of each sex, but I'm not going to use punishment and force to make sure of it. I'm going to use other methods. This is the point, man is confusing the desirable balance of the sexes somewhere with the concept of equality. Actually, the procedure this bill represents is a quest for important human rights involving property. It is the human rights that my party has protected and is always applying in various ways and always so easy to justify that approach. You just point into social interests or something like that. However, when it comes to restricting the rights of property, which is the Constitution, rich public interests need to be in place. People of all sorts are in the management of each company. We can call it desirable, but it's certainly not public interest. We make it a matter of order here at the council Hall that when we try to bring matters through, we always refer to what other nations are doing, I don't talk about neighboring nations. We also justify all the nonsense we approve of by someone else's doing something like that. No other nation has ever thought of this, none, not in Europe, no democratic states, no legal states, just no people. Why? Because there's the right to own it, it's a mission. I often wondered why fewer women are in charge of certain companies. Why are there fewer men in the others and those jobs? There's an explanation for that. It's not because we're trying to stop it. But is that not part of freedom? Isn't that just the beauty of it? We're just different and we're even the sexes. I think I know why more men than women are in charge of the partners the bill is about. That is because there are men who have taken risks with these communities, and they themselves want to rule them. It's not that easy. No, the lawgiver will come and say, "It's impossible. That's a preposterous approach. It's not just that's ridiculous. It's just absurd that in the law today this obligation is being fulfilled, and that's what needs to be changed. We cannot act this way and justify everything by crying out this concept of equality. This has nothing to do with equality. It's just an opportunity to do it, but he's supposed to try and defend us. Today's thinking in society is so great that everything can be done. Everything we do not approve of, whether in speech or in other matters, is considered undesirable, and we are going to use punishment. You can't even be quiet any more without getting caught in the penalty storm. You see, there's a lot of beauty in baloney and baloney. It's the beauty of freedom. No, you can't either. To what kind of community are we heading? Is anyone thinking about that? No, because the majority of the items at any given time are always forcing the smaller parts. The free community is on the run. This does not happen overnight, but one day we wake up and realize that the free society has almost disappeared. I may well sound classy now, but I like it. You see, there is a lot to do on the Central Party case. To be honest, I'd like to continue to be classy in many other activities brought by the Central Party. I'm not reporting an offer for the Central Party, but he deserves commendation for what's done well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u36	V.E.G. President. It's almost possible that I'm breaking the rules set last year for an answer. I hardly know where to bring down to respond to what. A senator who practically spoke of the offer for the Central Party, and is always welcome to us. I loved the speech and just spoke out of my heart. It has sometimes been said of my speaking ability, the one here, that it is one of the best when I speak out of the heart. I enjoyed listening to this talk, and I wholeheartedly agree. The senator went a long way to talk about the current law being illegal in terms of social equality policies and much less guilty. There are two differences, equality, and equality. This is an attempt to obtain equal positions with forcedness measures, such as parking tickets. There's three down. Some members of the Independence Committee (IRC) no longer spoke but were on notice during their final record. I'm sorry they're not here to talk. But I would like to ask the senator, for what reason. þm. Bryndís Haraldsdóttir spoke of this as being equal for exporting. [[The president calls.]] What does it say? A senator of the fact that his platoon sister said it was equal to export?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u37	V.E.G. President. Yes, that talking from the heart. Now my opposers have usually talked about my having no heart, and if I had, it would be made of stone. I'm talking about the important value of the free society that has brought this country and many other countries so far. I don't want to go along that path of progressively killing it down, or gradually. It's just the point of this lawsuit. It's all a little thing that you overlook -- yes, it's all right, it's good that in all governments there are as many of each sex - gradually. We have to hold on to some prince's freedom. We must not go so far as to allow the more parts to go on in this way to reach their goals. That's key. With my own party, I see that those who are on the level are on notice. I'm not quite sure who the alarm is. But I'm giving myself a reason because the law now obliges having both sexes, and here, it's just adding the terms, even in part-laws anyway. In that case, this bill is unnecessary. But the big thing we're supposed to look at is to take all this nonsense out of law. That's the point. Let's take this nonsense out of the law, that was a lot done in 2009 and then, let's clear it out. [[The president calls.]] But we haven't had a speech yet.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u38	V.E.G. President. Thank you. For this answer, a senator wholeheartedly agrees that this is really not a law. Freedom must be that we get to do what we want, and business to walk should be able to select the most qualified people on board. Of course, it's good to be able to look for the best of equality, and I believe that we're going in that direction. I don't have a direct question in this second answer, but thank you just for the time being.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u39	President. As I've said myself, " If I were in control of a company, I wouldn't want everyone to be the same. ' I'm really interested in being around people who are even different from me. It may be desirable to have e.g. a woman in this board because I'm not a woman. But I would never think of supporting the punishment to force someone into this. I think these things happen more and less by themselves, depending on who are taking chances in the workplace. Usually, this enterprise is owned by several people who themselves want to control it. It is important that we allow it to happen and encourage others to participate in commercial activities and investors, individuals of both sexes, this happens spontaneously.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u40	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. It was interesting as he was hoping and showing, and it was remarkable to hear it in view of the fact that his fellow slave sister has spoken to this matter very much. Clearly, there is a great disagreement within the Independence Party on this matter. There's beauty in freedom. A senator, and all may be done today, as he rightly mentioned. There are many things that have been done in this hall in the name of equality and self - determination rights, including allowing babies to be killed in the womb that are almost 22 weeks old and that have reached maturity and are able to live outside the womb. Opponents of the so - called sexuality have noted that sex should not matter, and breakfasts will only lead to more prejudice toward women, and the law on sexuality in corporate governments will damage their attempt to achieve equality. A lot of interesting stuff. A senator gave his talk, but I wanted to ask him specifically what the consequences of his belief that the bill will be legal. Hv. The senator specifically mentioned the companies, that they should be guilty of enterprises which are already fighting in the banks, and that is a very interesting view and are entitled to do so. Just when we have to back them up, they're to be fined. But what effect does that have? A senator that this has to do with women will be legal? [[The president calls.]] Is it possible for women to be prejudiced and with this matter, in fact, to harm their attempt to achieve equality? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u41	V.E.G. President. I think sexuality is just the opposite of equality, it's not going together. This is a forced operation. It is a quest for the free kingdom, free society. I have no idea what the consequences of this will be, if that's the case. Some will be punished; others will get one of the opposite sex into the company. I have the feeling that many people think that corporate control is of no importance, where anyone can be, like it's just some form of it. If some manager is to be useful, I'm not talking about in a special business, he needs to know and work in this article. The way gender operates in articles varies greatly. I think it might have some serious consequences, maybe not a lot, maybe just none, I don't know. At the same time, we can expect a small amount of money from the government at the expense of our employment and possibly a government or part of a government that is not useful to the company. This can also create disunition within companies. If there are such conditions, e.g. Three owners or five, and everybody wants to be in charge and then some part of it loses control. [[The president calls.]] This can have consequences.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u42	Mr. President. Thank you. The answer was made by a senator who found this interesting, as he concluded, that this could create an inconsistencies in an enterprise. I have not heard much of it here from a talk chair on the part of this bill's followers. Now we're very close to achieving our sexuality policy and fulfilling the law. I need to understand the right thing about 13% in order to achieve that goal, it's taken some time, it's been over ten years since the law was given. Is possible, what. A senator, that the transporters and those who support the bill just don't know? And are they not pursuing a very dangerous course to intend to impose some penalty on the final yards of this case, which could cause women even to become prejudiced and so on if the law is accepted and may be appointed to govern the government, with some penalty on the part of the government that hangs over them? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is it possible that those who follow the case just did not realize that we were really achieving this goal? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u43	The president asks why. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u44	V.E.G. President. Yes, I think they know exactly how these goals are achieved. Of course, they get caught on their own by increasing the share of women in the job market. When I was young, and I'm not old, women just weren't so much at work. Then it happens on its own. That's just political poise for me, really, and you don't need it. They should allow things to develop in the free community as both sexes participate. We can encourage them to participate and even encourage them in some way, not to find such lyrics, and then I'll punish you if things aren't what I want them to do. This tendency: If things aren't what I want them to be, you need to be punished. Where does this end, huh? Senator? I don't know.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u45	Mr. President. There's been a bit of a burden here at the council to thank you all the time for speeches, no matter how bad they are. But now there is good reason to thank the discourse, which was extremely well built, and good, and actually fun, as well. paritaprevir The armour of Níelsson the son of Nils. And if I hadn't had an opportunity to thank you for this talk, I would have thanked him for the talk he gave earlier during the discussion, which, in my opinion, was one of the greatest discussions of the last council, i.e. The fall council. A very deep speech, when you look carefully, but at the same time, it's fun. I intend to take advantage of something else from that talk, to quote it as I give a talk afterward, and hopefully to have a bad reason. A senator has the opportunity to observe and intervene, to correct me if I have misunderstood something. But because of the depth of analysis. The senator has been in this case, and he has learned, he now enjoys being a specialist and a senator, but there's always been a question of the importance of specialists, here's a specialist and a senator in one of the great alternatives, and I'd like to ask him a question. A senator whether he believes that this bill can be one manifestation of a much greater problem we face in modern politics, i.e. that the contents have become richer, there has been a distinct gap between discussion and content, or between over-developed goals and real consequences. It seems that all more and less is now being done on the name of a prime project or the declared goals or phrases used to support the bill rather than the actual effects and content. That's a bill, considering why. A senator's example?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u46	V.E.G. President. Yes, this bill is an example of that. I'm not sure that those who are following the bill and who are on it wonder over the top of its contents or think something deeper about it to figure out the consequences. No, it's not. It's equal. But when people start to look at it better, it has nothing to do with equality. I'm hoping I'll be able to convince people here right now, who've been more like the bill, that it's not an equal issue. It's a mission to freedom and property. That is the purpose of my speech. But thank you for the safe passage. I don't often get a compliment, but when it comes, I'm very happy. But my contents really are all about this. While the matter may be modest, one says that there must be equal ratios, there is much more to the whole matter itself, not in the bill, in which men think nothing at all. It's not the only case like that. We have a few, full of them, who's worried. There's so much concern because people aren't thinking about the big picture, they don't think any more. There's just some nice little, cuddly thing and, yes, I'm equality, but suddenly we wake up that we're all in coldwash.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u47	Mr. President. Next time, I'm gonna ask you what. A senator and an expert on a point he entered in his speech, his concern that this will continue to develop worse when men have allowed themselves to break the prince's arms. There is indeed a prince, a prince's act of possession, and indeed a prince's gesture of democracy. It is chosen democratically in corporate governments unless the government decides to interfere and determine who may and may not be there. And, of course, the matter continues to be complicated. A senator mentioned. Now we don't know how many genders exist according to the latest definitions of the government, but when it comes to taking more gender into account, even look at the need to be young and older rulers, etc., how can this be done? Is it possible that we simply need to establish a commission made by the government and those who have a company can consult this committee that applies to all those who apply to become rulers and appreciate who is qualified according to the government's opinion to sit on the company's board? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u48	V.E.G. President. I wouldn't be surprised that it happened next. But you're right about what you're talking about. A senator, this is a quest for democracy. It's a democratic thing with the companies, its governments. They're chosen. But we also see this happening about elections. There were senators on the bill of a new election law that wanted to require that men not be able to offer unless there were as many of each sex. It's all over the community. It's a quest for democracy, it's a quest for freedom of society, and it has nothing to do with equality. Clearly, we are on our way to choke out the free West Democracy community. We just do it gradually. We may not feel it much in the big context, but then we wake up one day with a bad dream, boy. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u49	Mr. President. We're going to discuss a bill on changing the law on partnerships, the laws on private societies, the social law and the law on partnerships. There's been a discussion at the moment. The employment committee, now back for the council and the 2nd. So continue with the disappearance of December 7th. I've said before, Mr. President, that there's a fine bill. There is no disagreement that all of us want to ensure equality in all areas between the sexes and the human family. Efforts to make matters right and have been at the scene of the legislature. It is equal in the administrations of an enterprise. For several years it has been under law that the percentage of each partner, partner, partner and partner with more than three members of the board and more than 50 employees should not be less than 40%. It's been under law, Mr. President, for the past few years. However, there has been no law against violating this law. True, that lack has troubled some. Today, there is to be an amendment and a legal authority to lay a date's finestment on the non-compliance of this law. There, Mr. President, I believe the shot is far beyond the target. First of all, and mostly because they're getting involved with partners and companies, many of which are private property. Owners have put their money and effort into building up their companies and have chosen them for a government they trust best to end their own resources at stake. That these governments are made up of the owners themselves, and that if government officials are not properly appointed for gender, the government is very careful. What part does the Kingdom have in this? What do they want on decks in this field? In this connection, I would like to read only from the information of Iceland's Women's Rights Association on the bill for the proportion of women in governments, the position as it was 2018, which says, by permission of the President: In 2018, women were 28.8% of the executives in companies with 50-999 employees, 36.4% in corporate management with a total of 100 to249 employees and 39.4% in companies with 250 or more employees. In all cases, the ratio is about 29% to more than 39%. And we're here talking about a 40% share. What's the need, Mr. President? What's the need to run? This is almost right at the limits laid by the law, suggesting that this ratio is gradually improving without repair. What's the need? Indeed, Mr. President, there is evidence that this rate will change rapidly over the next few years because 70% of those graduate from college are women for some time. If they are seven out of 10 with the highest degree in education in excess of men, would they not be likely to give more attention? Is this not likely to change? These figures I mentioned earlier are two years old, now almost three years old, so it is likely that numbers are already better today, the women in favor. In summary, we are talking about the lawgiver trying to force on some political policy and to achieve some social and policy that he wants to achieve and to promote, yes, a policy that we can all agree on, i.e. to achieve increased equality between men and women. This is usually successful, but the Lawgiver is suggested in these matters when it comes to a constitution that states that the right of possession is nonviolent, as well as a constitution of freedom of society, that any legal purpose can be established by any society without applying for any rights, and society must not be solved by the administration of government. The freedom of money and the sanctity of property, there the state is stretching far into the hands of the common people, who founded communities, have invested in it his money and effort. Then comes the Kingdom, saying: "You need a certain number of women, or men, who may not be there. The owners may have five good women in charge, but they can't be anymore. Some men must be found in a town, grabbed them somewhere, even though they are not even close to the company or in it or anywhere else. They need to be found and then chosen and put them on the next board. They are in dire need of that option, although the women may have done just very well until now, and the Society is well - equipped and they have gained knowledge and experience. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. some two little two little little little less inexperienced experienced guys that need have to stuff in there. How far may human rights be controlled by governments, the rights being defended by the regulations I was referring to? Of course, they are well - chosen, as I said, but that sting has been stretched well in recent years. Here is a clear example of the fact that the State's power is going very close to those regulations. The Constitution's rights set the government's standards as to how far they can go to restrict human rights. There is no doubt that the government has rules about how many government officials own the State are women or men. There is no doubt that if the companies make their money in a public fund, the government is there to own it. It is also possible that although the State would set similar rules for public society in the market, these communities operate in a sheltered market protected by widespread government legislation and are subject to public observation, careful and careful observation of the public, to a much greater extent than other companies in private property. But the bill isn't about these companies. It appeals to the communities that are often owned by the citizens. I was going to talk about day's fines, too, Mr. President, but I don't have time for that. I just want to say at the end that I feel that the fines that are set up there are way too high, up to 100,000 bucks. A day in which these two men are not elected in command, five women in command. [[The president calls.]] It is 100,000 a day, more than 3 million a month. No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u50	A respectable president. First, I have to make a note that this case has overstepped the schedule here today, as it were. The subject was earlier in the discussion and sent back to committees during the 2nd. stood, after the discovery of the problem was made. There would have been a miscommunication, e.g. to look for an opinion on those who might be considered, to respond to comments that had come to the conclusion of the bill's defect. It was our understanding that at one point the bill would return to the committee before the discussion was over that it had to be done. They would appear to us so that we could discuss the changes made and also, as a result, have been allowed more people to express their feelings about the matter. But then, all of a sudden, we have no idea what came out of the case, considering the majority of the or other part of the case, the only meeting that has been held on this matter ever since. He was held, I understand, the day after the discussion last. It is, therefore, a sin. Mr President is always going to move what he's got. Magnúsdóttir It would be a great help if you had the discussion. This bill would be attributed to the effect of this one meeting, for it was clear to everyone that considerable adjustments were needed. Hopefully, before long, we will have some explanation. But then the bill itself. I'm just going to start by discussing only its real effects, its real consequences. Of course, this is not all new. I agree with what. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son that it does not look good for the Generals to say that there has been no further refinement on the number of amazings adopted by the clean left rule of 2009-2013. But when that rule first came, it seemed that even in the clean left administration, it might not be easy to carry out, so it was decided that no special punishment would be given. In fact, there was a possibility of resorting to punishment rather than, as in this case, that fines could go to 100,000 dollars. a day to move on this political goal, which, as I am about to enter, goes against both democracy and property and many other basics of Western democracy. But then, the real effect. Let us now imagine that five young women who went to college together would receive, e.g. in projects at the university, business ideas, and decisions together these five to attack innovation, develop a business on their idea. To make that possible, they put their money and more on and more than cash available, likely each of these five women's families need to take a loan out of their house, so that the families of those five women are under it. But it so happens that the idea works, and the risks begin to pay. The operation is doing well, and the workers are increasing. But when the 50th employee is hired, the state power is met and explained that now these women, who together build this company, are no longer all on board, at least two must be replaced, though they are all equal, by 20% each. How is this going to happen? Will the State choose between them, decide which women should leave the board, or leave the company's owners to choose who will be fired? Will those who lose their seat of government, despite having their share of property that they must no longer take to the point that they cannot determine what is being done to them, find an escape to be settled in the government, some male who meet the requirements of the State? What will be the effect on the management of this company? Is it beneficial for the company that, instead of the five women who came up with this good idea, worked together, worked hard, worked hard, and got results, continue to run the business, or control, when some people are chosen to have sex? And what if this company specialized in something that may be more appealing to women than to men? Would the intervention of these two men improve the business? Of course, it is generally desirable for governments to come from different directions, to have different visions, to be of different genders, different ages, and so on. But where will it end if the government is going to plan this for the companies? We see that this matter in nature is a result of the system's mechanism of action. The gears keep turning in one direction. In the past, this issue was passed here on every notice that it would be shown moderation, taking into account the circumstances and so on. And then what? There are some of them. People here who are concerned that the State is not manipulated enough by the way they handle their possessions so that they need to add to the punishments that were available. You must ask yourself, " What will come next? ' But this is how the system, as it continues to function, continues to turn in the same direction as we politicians, unfortunately all too often, do not intervene even if there is a reason, as well. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's divulge of the various legal issues that were laid out in 2009, cast into the system, and the system continues to spin with them and increase its power. This case is also typical of the current political problem in other respects. It's all about countenance, defined goals. If a declared goal is equal, who would object to such a case? I often use examples of the government providing a bill called equality and welfare for all. Who will oppose a bill called equality and well - being for all, even though the real consequences of doing so would have to minimize equality and reduce the well - being? It is not so farfetched to argue that real influence could be counterproductive goals when the ideal politics are in control, since not so many years ago, they characterized politics east of the tent. All cases were declared to make life a better life than the way they were conducted and followed would have the opposite effect. Even the Constitutions of these countries, such as the governmental records of the Soviet Union now famous, are very beautiful to look, beautiful words, and sentences, but then they did something else, on the contrary to the description in the constitution. What a shame it would be if we were to become increasingly involved with Iceland's Constitution in such a way, to view what it says as a surface description rather than a principle we are going to follow. In this regard, such principles are weighed. And in order to do this in some way more easily, they even allow themselves to rephrase words and phrases. At least there was talk here. two senators. paritaprevir A Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter and a what. paritaprevir But in Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir's case, this matter was about defending freedom because freedom was not available unless it was met by action like this. Hv. paritaprevir In fact, Brutish Haraldsdóttir spoke of such action as a major export product for our Icelanders. Then I want to give a talk. paritaprevir Brurt, Brynjar of Níelsson, well described this attitude. We know how this happens, which groups meet in international cooperation, and how they discuss together, and how humans can be deceived by the closer they get to the environment. But, hey. paritaprevir Brises Níelsson's son said in his speech earlier in this discussion, and rightly, by permission of the president: ▪ We are forever proud because we are so diligent in the use of penalties and penalties to achieve political goals. We're completely out of our minds on this as well as on so many other things because we think we're so great. We're so hot, we're so equalized, we're so great. We're actually just lame, so it makes sense. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son. That's it, isn't it? When you forget all about your appearance, phrases, and then meet other people who think it's the best politics, something lame can come out of it, but not only that, but something very harmful, because when you move over and cut off your freedom, it's a damaging effect in the end. Regarding this attempt to rediscover words, words like freedom, words like "free," then said snoops. paritaprevir For example, the life of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir is never real unless they live under equality. The story then followed that freedom would be guaranteed by the intervention of the State, the organization, and the intervention of the State. Then I thought of a singer I've never quoted before, Mr. President, who may not have expected to quote again, but not in particular with her political agreement, at least not in the latter time. But the singer Björk Guðmundsdóttir sang of this tendency in her song: "I expect to translate it as a hunter, a hunter, or a hunter or a hunter, but the song was called in the original language. That's where the singer, with the permission of the president, says in her own way because I know it's the highest. The president wants to speak to Icelandic: I thought I could plan my freedom. But I've got Scandinavian. The singer then explained these words in an interview and said that she had been primarily referring to Sweden and how foolish it would be to imagine, as some did in Sweden and even in other parts of the North, that freedom could be planned. But that's what we're talking about. Councilmen have called for freedom to be organized because it is so dangerous that freedom is allowed to be free. But as I mentioned earlier, this is the result. As a result, our freedom is impaired, and the result is a tendency to wind up. But what is the purpose of all of this? The purpose, as humans will be talked about here, is to achieve equality, but what kind of equality? Equality in the form that there are always equal ratios of gender, not necessarily equal ratios for the other, at least not at this time, in corporate management. That's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason called here earlier today a higher class justice. Those who place such emphasis on these changes, perhaps in order to give more government seats to any of the seven women, overlook the status of equality in the country in general, the position of fish workers, or other workers, or the position of the big women, health professionals, nurses, teachers. They're doing strange politics, and they're using their higher caste rights. So, what farm do they live in? I don't know an Icelandic translation of this word, but I hope to the highest. Mr President knows what I'm talking about. What is closer to the environment of those who give priority to a higher class of equal rights? That is exactly the environment in which such things are held in high esteem, and they even feel that they can benefit themselves if they are to be part of our politicians'role in seeing the interests of the people of the land and doing so by general rules that do not interfere with freedom but allow freedom to enjoy their own, rules about creating equal opportunities, not handing out a firm conclusion that is what this issue does. It's not about creating equal opportunities, on the contrary. Or what would the two women from my example here say when they were told that they needed to leave their own company because it would be an opportunity for them not to take their possessions away? As we look at real influences and real examples, this issue does not result in increasing freedom or making a business better than it does in order to achieve the goals of a distinct group, which puts more emphasis on upper class equality than on general, real equality. And like a cot. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason mentioned earlier, these same people do not worry that nurses have even one option to work. They are not interested in improving their standard of living by offering additional options, more workplaces, and more competition. The same can be said of the teachers. No, it's because it's not about equality. It's about poise for a very well-sized group, where people are so expected to give a round of applause on the back of some Norse committee and then think it's the world's estimate that one of Iceland's major exports is equal. It is very urgent, Mr. President, that we begin to look at the values we have found best in the past and to create real equality, but to dissident of the State's overmanagement of everyday life and even its interference with the way they treat their possessions. But I'm just about to start this tour, Mr. President, that was an introduction. I pray to the highest degree. President to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u51	The president would like to state that he considers the word "balblah " in Icelandic. If it wasn't before, here it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u52	Mr. President. We can only agree that this is a soap bubble, can't we? I'll have a word with what. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunuga's Gunnlaugsson because I liked the talk. She wasn't far from the tone I struck here before Christmas when this discussion began. One is to set noble goals in the law that requires members of the community to have the same position in governments; another is to have a form of punishment, not to fulfill that law. They are actually found in the current law, up to a year's imprisonment. However, this is a day - to - day contribution, and it is to include. taking into account some undefined thing that even transporters have not been able to explain to me, and regarding the financial strength of an enterprise. But the financial strength of a company differs. What is financial strength is not a universal science or unit. It depends on the nature of the companies. It depends on what they are in. It calls, for example. has increased financial resources for an enterprise to be in a fishing road or other ventures while other types of financial strength, such as even some sort of commercial company, need not be so much. So the legal requirements proposed in this bill should take into account some vague ideas that cannot be defined, and transporters have failed to rely on them to give clear answers to economic strength. [[The president calls.]] That's why I'm asking. A senator: Does he agree with me that even if people could join in with the movers, the matter is unacceptable, even if only for this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u53	V.E.G. President. That's exactly what I noticed earlier during the discussion. A senator came in and explained to me very carefully the answers and the talks on the subject. I'll agree with that with what's happened. There's a senator's concern. I feel that there is an increased tendency for the law to be passed through here without knowing what it contains, what the authority is, and how far men can go, and on what grounds they should. This, I believe, must be the result of the evolution that I attributed to my speech. It's all about the appearance, some phrase, and it says it's about to be done, or it's even the other thing to be forgotten, the real effect of the law. This point is something that definitely needs to be examined in this matter, and that is why I expected it, because it has already occurred at least from the bottom. At the beginning of December, a senator pointed out that the committee would do more work on this and put more lines on this before the discussion continued. But we still wait to learn what the majority of the committee's members are planning to do in order to try to correct this matter, if that can be fixed. In fact, I felt very desirable that the matter would also be discussed in the Parliament's Economic and Business Committee. A senator might try to heal it, as he has done so well with so many cases of the greater part, or preferably become an anesthesiologist in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u54	Mr. President. I'm not sure people want me to be an anesthesiologist, at least. not when it goes under the scalpel. But I'm just gonna keep doing this. I'm not going to question the fact that there's a good mind involved in this bill. I'm not going to question the fact that there's a good mind in those who want to promote sexual equality and even force a legal system that violates all my basic ideas and that I think the Constitution's basic ideas about the rights and human freedoms to act out their own affairs as they please. I understand what men are trying to do, but law-enforcement may not be what we're supposed to do. But if they want to do so, are they not to be social parties to themselves, not just sexual equality but also equal age groups? Why don't we put goodbyes in the administrations of a partner where it's guaranteed that senior citizens have a share, middle-aged, me and Brynjar, the highest. President, students, etc.? Don't we also want people to be equal to their homes when it comes to companies like yourself. ... witha nationwide operation? Why don't we make sure it's legal, and we have a business to put into command after we're married, not just by sex? Where are we gonna end up, huh? Senator, if we keep going like this and we're going to follow this argument, which actually violates what I think, and I hope more here will agree with me, the Constitutions of the rights of the people when it comes to making arrangements for their goods and making decisions on the basis of their interests. If they believe that their interests are best paid to put five women in charge, they will. If they think it's better to just order those 70 years of age and older, regardless of gender in control, they do. [[The president calls.]] And what happens? Yes, an Icelandic society will profit from such an arrangement. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u55	V.E.G. President. That's it. That's it. Where are we going to say stop when they're finished creating these new criteria for us, me and what. A senator, and probably anyone at least are in this hall now, to consider all individuals to be equal, whether they are equal, or how old, where they live, etc.? It is very strange or difficult to expect to accept a system that primarily sortes people according to inborn qualities or something else that can be separated by people and then organized into each room with different characteristics. It is best that the different properties of our enterprises become useful, but this is done by those who own their companies and own their interests. It is their use of different characteristics of different people, or the result will be damaging to companies. We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son was merely wondering where this will end. I agree that the only way to follow this to the end is to get the state to come to the competent Committee of the State, where firm owners can send a message with a wish to get themselves into the management of their own company or to appoint someone else. And then the committees need to be well designed, this will be a lot of work, over the overall picture, and look at how people share in the administrations of all their companies, and then they can assess if they need someone from a particular part of the country if it leans on a certain part of the country, leans on a particular sex, or a certain age range, and can sort this down. [[The president calls.]] You can see this, a huge wall in this institution with lights, each color representing different personal characteristics. [[The president calls.]] This is a lot of trouble, and they send business to the company to see if they can appoint the nominees. [[The president calls.]] And if not, the Agency can personally arrange for the chosen representatives. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u56	The president would like to remind you that despite great control, they have the same time limit as anyone else.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u57	Mr. President. It's not the same rush on me today when I came here earlier, just to discuss matters that concern a woman's health. But before I go further, I'm going to make a confession that I was moving this bill last year. When it even appeared that I did it another time, I began to think my case, including peer instruction. I found that upon further examination, there are a lot of things in this bill that are actually harmful, even things that are against a constitution, etc. Me and all the Middle-class people, we're against politics, you know, stick-in-a-politic bitch. It's so remarkable that now an aheadling is one evidence of criminal abuse, it's supposed to devolve everything, one thing and another. But at the same time with this bill, there is a crime of equality. The punishment is to be paid if certain conditions are not met, conditions laid down several years ago. The fulfillment of these has been a success. But now, some people want to laugh at this trend by using money fines and it's not a smart one, it's a fortune from 10,000 to 100,000 dollars. daily. There's no smartass. This morning, I became aware that with today's news magazine, there's a lot about growth, which is called professional women. This magazine discusses women who are working in various companies and in various jobs. They're pioneers, they're executives, financiers, HR managers, bankers. I could go on for a long time. Although I have claimed to be quite informed about my employment in the country, I admit, Mr. President, that the results of these women have achieved and are reaching the establishment of companies, in businesses, in every aspect of my business, were, in effect, sort of over my hopes. When I looked the paper, I began to think: " Is it possible for all these women to have been threatened? Those who hired the women of this magazine and are not professional independence, they are very many, too, should those who hired women as HR managers, finance managers, executives, bank managers have been threatened if they were not hired? Of course, I concluded that the women mentioned in this magazine - this is a very countermarked sheet, encouraging everyone to read it, and I will read it much better tonight when I get home. I cannot help but be impressed when I read this magazine, for although I had made quite clear an article that I thought, for the sake of my career, it was sort of out of my best hope of what women have been doing in business. This magazine is precisely published by the women's partner in a business venture that was formed a few years ago. Of course, the successes of these women have been achieved by their own ability, ability, knowledge, and experience. There has been no threat of such progress or of receiving that attention and success, as we have seen. This was very interesting to me, Mr. President, because since it was legalized that there should be equal genders in companies over a certain size limit, i.e. that the second sex is not less than 40% in the management of companies over a certain size, has lullied us somewhat. To read this magazine today, I can't really imagine that it is a very long time before this greeting, which was legalized a few years ago, will be fully filled up without having to come guilty, without having to come threatening, just because women have had the progress described in this magazine by their own means, abilities, and knowledge. Mr. President. I don't know that any man, a few members or group or company, threatened the university authorities in Iceland where there are now 70% students. I don't know that college people, or university officials, were threatened to enter into this group of gorgeous women who are studying and working in college. Then there is another debate whether with this ratio there will be a different equality battle that will be fought after 15 to520 years, depending on the reverse premise. Then it may be stated at the World Congress bill that directs it to those who run a business in the country that only a few men are allowed to be in corporate management on a day-to-day basis. This is just to emphasize that evolution in communities may be the most beautiful and successful if it is devoid of self - respect and self - esteem, and it takes place where all are equal participants regardless of religion, gender, sexual orientation, or what we want to draw out. Because I'm about this good age, I've seen this trend since women were working at home, like my mother's name, which had nine children alive in 21 years. It tells itself that she did not have the same opportunity to pursue secular education or employment because, of course, she was busy running a home. But she did it because she was hardworking, making use of every opportunity she could both work outside her home and obtain further education, I don't talk about when the chicks were flying out of her nest. But it's only for a long time since, Mr. President, that this may have been what we grew up to be a sort of stereotype, because we don't use the word Norm, Mr. President. That image, of course, changes over time and with increased participation in women and education, not just education but a wide variety of education. And let me mention, Mr. President, that in this issue, we find that a young woman who has become president of her trade union, an electric union, uses probe. Time was the time for electric activation to be a part of a stone as a man's work, but now, fortunately, women are streaming into industrial education, electrical activation, and carpentry, as well as at other levels. I don't know that it is because some threats have been used to prevent them. Rather, they have gone in there because of their abilities and their desire to participate in their affairs. There is also another factor that I would have liked to come on which my committee body crystals over this fine business which attracts the freedom of society and the freedom of human society to run a business field. And when I tell you, I mean both men and women. The views discussed here are that it can be considered as a matter of opinion whether it, as it is prepared, stands in the rights of society, social freedom, and the legal rights of the Constitution. Now I'm not going to read a lot of law for the highest. A president, one of our greatest jurists, Már Stefánsson, an expert in social rights, appeared before the committee, and he was asked to answer two questions for which there was freedom of society and other things to follow. Stefán, by permission of the president, says: It should be kept in mind that the social freedom and the following occurrences of their property rights protected by the Constitution's terms on various aspects of the government, including the legislature, scr. Also, Article 11. MSE.◯ - Now I don't know how to do this acronym thing, but I'm sure the President knows what it is. Because of this, the principle is that corporations control their own business and also think they're the owners of their possessions. This right, however, can be impaired if such impairments are supported by grammatical views, including average - scale views. That would be, for example. It is a perfunctory view to try by sentence to match the proportions between men and women in some companions' governments. A moderate degree, though, must be taken into consideration. It means looking for ways that will impair the minimum rightness of partners to control their own concerns and possessions, but it can still cause them to reach their target. Here comes what I talked about earlier, perhaps, that the success that has already been achieved in this respect has been achieved without threats or funds to the companies involved. By permission of the president, Stefán Már continues, saying: (b) How do the laws of the nations differ from those of the nations? ▪ In the case of unions owned by a state or community, there are far more available sources of authority in order to establish laws of the above - mentioned kind. Thus, the available bill may be compatible with such associates. There is, however, greater doubt in the case of a private company. In any case, that law would have to be clear and predictable. This means that forced policy will be used unless the legal rights are considered to be sufficiently clear and to take care of potential exceptions that need to be clear as well. Similarly, there should be some evidence (e.g. in the legal expositing data) that less efficient measures were not available to meet the gender ratio target in governments. Second, on the basis of the lesser part, the requirement for judicial action required in the field of government that was entrusted with the authority to employ burdensome measures as outlined in the bill was asked, taking into account the protocol, the average, the protest, and the information relating to government, and what viewpoints on flexibility in the light of different circumstances might be appropriate. Stefán's response showed that the answer was primarily dependent on the authority. If it were an open source, it would be safer to be careful and not use a warrant unless there was a relatively obvious neglect. In partnerships and private communities, events could easily occur where a society could not guarantee equal gender status. It should, e.g. Append to a ratio election. We are well aware of this at the General Assembly because there is no preelection which percentage of men and women will be in this hall after the same election. So I continue to witness to Stefán, he says that under such circumstances it would hardly be advisable to make a date. It must also be noted that all administration procedures and in this regard would be appropriate to examine the position of the administrative authority that lays a date and a chance to turn such decisions to a higher administrative level. To this, Mr. President, I'd like to state that we Middle-class people are very much on the progress of women everywhere, whether in the field, in the field, in the education, in the election, anywhere. Men have made a good joke about the appointment of our body, but they can show that it was put together in just weeks, as the entire pack and obtained unprecedented results. Of course, as before, e.g. When we look at our platoon official, there are many beautiful women there, and there are a lot of powerful and elegant women who put confidentiality within the Middle Party, just to be mentioned here in the middle of nowhere, Mr. President, I want it to be revealed. And because we want women to have the rights of men, we also want them to follow the bill that is discussed here, that they enjoy their strength and merit in exactly the same way that men do. We have certainly not found that in any way a set of rules and laws should ensure that the effectiveness of men and women is, for example, equal to that of women. in corporate management. However, it is this threshold where the punishment will enter, when, as I said before, we are going to criminalize the equality struggle by making it a guilty money fund. I don't think that's going to do any good. I don't think it's likely to be effective in changing structure under threats. We see in many places that success is not likely. Of course, we trust with the 13% missing to be equally important in corporate management of the magnitude required by this bill, to expect that it will improve the first, but we do not feel that it is necessary to do under whipcuts. I have no doubt about it, such as. that the discussion that has been presented here, which has been quite good, and then I can quote many talks, and especially the talk of the highest. A president earlier will draw attention, and it will surely lead to more and more thinking. I am quite convinced that equality and equality are fast becoming evident with men and women in the administrations of an enterprise involved here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u58	Mr. President. I'm gonna get involved in this discussion, since I'm the first person in the matter of discussion here and, unfortunately, couldn't be here on December 7th at the beginning of the discussion. This has certainly been an interesting discussion, both on the Internet, of what it was on December 7, last year, and of what it is. I have to say, it brings my attention to a discussion of equality and who we are in the equal struggle, that at this point it's just men. Councilmen who have spoken against this matter. I think it tells a story about where we are. I'm not going to say we're in the Middle Ages, but I thought of the Middle Ages, but then I found out that there's a band from Skavetir who named it, and someone might recognize it. [[Up front.]] It wasn't so bad, was it? But this is what every male senator after all has brought a lot of criticism to this matter. I think it's special, in a time when we talk that Iceland is foremost in equality and exemplary, that we are still there already following laws that were accepted in 2010 and that were accepted 2013 - it was a good fortification and adjustment to enforce these laws - men will use one another to talk down on the part of an enterprise that falls under this law. There are countless laws. A general assembly has a law of repairs. We can only talk about laws like traffic laws. You may disagree that there is no allowed maximum velocity, since there are laws and fines. It is true of a number of laws that I shall better establish below, which can be referred to and shows that there is not a new phenomenon under the sun that it is being imposed on not enforcing these laws. Indeed, they were controversial in their time. But we're not in the place today that we're talking about putting these laws, but that there are some laws to be broken, companies have failed to meet the criteria for gender proportions in governments and orders that it takes a minimum of 40% of each sex in corporate governments, use probe with over 50 people. We're not talking about a small business. If there are three controls, then there must be a minimum of one in either sex in control. It has been shown here that this will only happen on its own. It's going to be like this. I think it's so amazing, it's as if every equality struggle for ten years, with women in the front row, didn't produce the results we've achieved today, that it just fell out of heaven. Of course, it is for some reason that we are primarily among the nations on equality. It has taken blood, sweat, and tears over the years to fight for equality. That men really think that, huh? Councilmen here, that it just happened to themselves without having to work out the equality that is... [[Up front.]] This has been stated in the House of Parliament. [[Up front.]] That's right. - I'm not supposed to have to have a word with any senators in the hall. President. [[Up front.]] I'm right here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u59	Give a speaker peace to give a talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u60	Today, we still have 14% sexual differences in pay. We have more work to do. Let's just face facts. There it is gone out, and that I may be very meek, and bring the punishments that are spoken of, that judgment may be taken away from ten thousand years. ... toa hundred00,000K. The decision to make a day's fine can be taken into account by regard for the financial strengths of the company. And that's a adjustment. If the bill will be approved, which I expect, the law will be valid on January 1, 2022. Again, they are being given the unsupervised laws of 2010 and accepted 2013 as an opportunity to do better and enforce the law. I thought we all were in here, huh? Councilmen, face the fact that once laws are approved, whether we like them or not, they should be carried out. They wouldn't just be making fun of us. But there seems to be laws there to break them. I'm not there. We know the law of equality. I don't know. They may not have been in the discussion at the time. Congregation members in this discussion now. But we know that breaking equality also costs. They contain fines and penalties, and we have many examples of violations of equality, and this has cost the State much fines. There's a problem. Councilmen who have objected to this matter object to the laws and laws and guilt that have resulted from violating equality laws? It would be interesting to have a view of that. Councilmen to do that. This is the third time I am the first messenger of this matter and move it. The drop hollows the stone, just like in the balance struggle from a centuries ago. During the last two meetings, the parties were from all categories at the council. Two years ago, there was one. A member of the Central Class. Last assembly, Council 150, consisted of two members of the Central Party. When I made the decision in the fall, of course, I spoke with members of the council, but the members of the council I spoke with at the Central Party were not willing to do so. I must admit that I was amazed. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson, mentioned earlier, has been the last two members of this matter, and I know that he is an equalist, attended the United Nations Women's Convention for some misdemeanor. I was very disappointed that his attitude changed in this case because I believe this is a fair case, which, of course, should go through here and not have to be controversial. I think it's strange. Here are some points that have been presented in the discussion that I feel should be handled. It's said that there's a violation of a constitution, possibly, if we agree to this bill for law, and on social rights. All of this has been examined and has not been demonstrated to show that there is something in it. I'm just going to review what has also been going on in the discussion for years and now. I'd like to mention that in 2018, 394 companies had 50 or more annual jobs according to annual accounts. According to the Ministry of pro- and innovation, 66 of 394 members failed to meet the commands of gender proportions in governments. Similar numbers are not available because of the 20141/2017 and 2019 years. As a work committee, we are considering the changes in these 66 associates since 2018, and this information will be introduced to the commission when we take the matter into consideration between 2 and 3. Today it is carried out so that a company file does not record a management if a notification of a government fails to meet the requirements of the law. When registration of the management board for an enterprise registry, it does not require information on the methods used for administrative management, i.e. e.g. A majority vote, a ratio vote, or a multiple vote, as per local law. This was found in the discussion to be critical of comparing Icelandic legislation with Norwegian, where in Norway it would take part in public, but this bill is not an assessment of which partners the sex - ratio legislation should take place. That law is already there, as I have mentioned, and took effect on September 1, 2013. It has also been noted here how to assess the economic consequences. Dags should be from 10,000 to 1000,000 k. In view of the available figures, the question was asked to know how this would work. I saw this during Christmas conversation. As stated in the bill, the strengths of an enterprise should be taken into account. This is what I want to say, so we'll remember between the 2nd and 3rd. More clearly, they are applied only to organizations that do not improve in a certain amount of time. It will be further clear that there will be no immediate application of daylight; rather, it will be further clear that the budget will be postponed. Then this law was asked: ▪ Presently, founders, managers, managers, accountants, accountants, or branch managers of a foreign community and other duties under the law of these, social releases, or conclusions of shareholders, and may be invited by a partner to provide a certain day's fine, or week's fine, due to a duty. Within one month of its release, a legal decision may be made under courts. A question about this law was presented here and referred to part - time laws. This is to be answered by the reference to the principle of the clearness of penalties, it is desirable that a set of regulations taken into account in terms of the procedure, does not meet the obligation of law-oriented sex ratios in the administration. It was also mentioned that there was no experiment in either the bill or the report or the already mentioned committee to define what is financial strength. It would be highly unnatural for us not to make clear what we consider to be in the matter of guilt, to be unclear about financial strength. But then I'm going to point to 10. Acting on a corporate file and on law No. 82/209, on registration of real owners. These are similar views. This thing that I skated here is what I pulled out and wanted clear answers to and had lawyers on the committee scene examine for me. But we will review this with the Committee between 2 and 3. and further explain what has been presented in the subsequent committee magazine and no doubt have some visitors come to our home and also refer to Professor Stefánsson Már, who came to the committee in December. But there is nothing that has been shown to show that the case does not pass an opinion on legal and social rights, and these guilts do not pass law. We've had an opinion from the Skattti and the tip we've come up with, and we believe this case has come to a good place and every reason to finally finish it after all the time it's been here on the World Council committee, for the first two years of the Economic and Business Committee, and in the fall it went to the professional board. I think it is very important that the council does not accept this kind of justice, which is part of further strengthening women in the job market, women in the business world, that they are equal to taking on positions of responsibility. There is no chance that there are no qualified women to be executives in companies. It is so absurd to imply something like that, that if a person meets the criteria, the other sex would be less than 40% in the management of larger companies. We've been looking to that, and it's not because women are becoming much more involved in the commercial affairs of the country as managers, here, two banks. It is an incentive for young women to continue. We can do whatever we want. We do not want to be in a place where the battle was decades ago, and it was a time when a woman was in charge. That was mentioned in the discussion before the spring of the year. Kristjánsdóttir A woman, at last after 150 years, was cosine in the board of the town council. I guess there were some fit women there all those years. The same can be said of countless corporate governments in this country today. It's just that there's so much bad money in women that a company should take advantage of, and if these cunts are going to pull their feet, then it's just going to have to be courting. There's nothing else, it's a law in the country, and it's natural to use some relics in that regard. Tonight, when I like to hear it, it's time to honor three women in their professional careers on Ring Lane, and I urge everyone to keep track of it. All I'm saying is, let's go, women.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u61	Mr. President. I've had an enjoyable partnership with what. A professional official who must acknowledge that there is something else in a talk. A senator seems strange to me. First of all, I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Will it be a matter of equality just for calling it an equal language of its transporters? That's all it takes, isn't it? This is a matter of spending a day's work on an enterprise, assigning it to the governor of the tax. This afternoon's discussion has been perplexing in all respects. She has even. Please allow for a possible conflict with the constitution. It has leaned on the charges and the proposed portions of the committee, i.e. that there should not be such things, but that there should be justice before the courts at all its expense and hard work. That's not all I could talk about. Several things surprised me in my speech. I was surprised, but I was surprised when she said that there was no evidence that there was a possible conflict with the legal rights of the Constitution. That's what we wanted, a member of the Central Party at what point. A professional health committee, a legal opinion on this point. This is already true in a letter from Professor Stefánsson Már, who met with the committee. This is very thoughtful and polite, and, of course, a person must read such passages in this context, but his warning will not be misunderstood. More doubt exists when it comes to a private company, he says. He further says that the argument needs to be reasoned, e.g. in the legal expositing of data, that less available measures are not available to meet the gender ratio target in governments. How can it be? A senator made the same claim that there was no evidence of a possible conflict with a constitution?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u62	Mr. President. Yes, although we have a good cooperation on a professional committee, we have our views on different matters, and that's just healthy and sure. But what's wrong. A senator entered the Constitution. True, we have had it checked, and no lawyer, whether on committee stage or elsewhere, has felt that there is a violation of a constitution. Of course, we will never be doing anything here that does not measure up to the Constitution or its terms of possession. Hv. A senator named charges, and there's charges for the Ministry. They've been investigated, and it's where the charges go, and they're referred to the Ministry. We're in a hurry. You shouldn't have to worry about that process. But, hey. A senator asks: Can any matter of equality be called? Therefore, there are no courts to say what can be called equality. I think that the appeal of the Women's Business Association, when their representatives came before the committee three years ago, was the source of this matter to me as the head of the Committee, and I have closely followed it. Women from all walks of life have been called on to agree to violate sex - ratio laws. [[The president calls.]] That's why I say it's equal.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u63	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Hv. Of course, a member of the council has a long and painful experience. A senator is very familiar with all the information and information presented to members of the Parliament. Thus, when a university professor expresses himself, as Professor Stefán Stefánsson does, he is careful to do so. The parts are slightly wrapped in, if you don't mind my saying so. He has every warning about the constitution. I also wanted to make a comment and ask him why. Senator: Who at early stage indicated that there were no suitable women to be found in the management of employment companies? I can't figure it out. Then I just want to say what. A senator: Does she feel tasteful to say that there were men here who participated in the discussion? [[The president calls.]] Hv. paritaprevir In fact, Brutish, the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, did the same thing, and I wondered why. The senator should not have been involved before in this discussion. [[The president calls.]] What about the fine women who are partners to the bill? [[The president calls.]] Is it to us who participated in this discussion to blame the fact that there were no more women who would be included in it, including those of the shipmen? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u64	The president took it up to what. A senator had one minute to make a decision that would show respect for the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u65	Mr. President. I noticed that critics of this matter so far are men and will have no wonder. Some of the women involved have addressed the discussion now and in December. I think that these women feel that this case is such a matter that they wonder how much time it takes here at the Council to discuss that it is not entitled to go through here. As to Már Stefánsson's opinion of Stefán, I have said this from the platform that we will discuss his reviews between 2 and 3. refer to the indication. But so far, no statement has been made that there is a danger that this case doesn't come up with an opinion about a constitution, and I'm also paying attention to it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u66	V.E.G. President. An interesting discussion on this subject is presented here. I can understand that at first glance everything you can talk about sounds good. However, when we get further into the matter, there is another view. This year, in April, the economist published a news report on how a sex exchange in corporate governments had been in 2019, for companies with 50 employees and more. There are 34.7% women. If the 40th rule is taken, the only thing you need is a little bit short. But it may well be that if you send someone, you decide to apply the 50:50 rule, I don't know it. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether this case is really what it takes when we just need a fraction of one percent to reach 40%. That's 2019 since. It may well be that the situation is even better now and that it would be good to know if it is. A senator knows something about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u67	A respectable president. We're working on getting the latest numbers from the Tax on this case and getting them back on the committee. We're doing business with companies where there are 50 or more annual works. The newest figures, there's a difference. In 2018, this was okay with 28.8% of the companies who had 50 ◯100 employees. But when you went up to 100◯249 employees, things were okay with 36.4% of your companies. I think it was a matter of the past three years that these laws were being discussed. The matter was called to the committee, and visitors have come to a meeting and have sent reviews about the past two years and again this winter on a professional committee. That discussion is important, that breaking law is not a voluntary matter. What are other companies that fulfill the law and carry it out? Is it fair to them that others who are skunks and who pull their feet get away with it and nothing is done about it? I don't think anyone thinks it's fair, except for how lucky the companies are to get strong women in control. I just think it's so much of a petition for these companies to activate the power of women in governments. There are plenty of women qualified to sit in these governments.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u68	V.E.G. President. I agree that there are plenty of women. I'd like to ask you here at the end of the question about the terms men and women. It was discussed on the committee, and here I quote a direct opinion: In view of the nature of the situation, the role of individuals with the registration of neutral sex may hardly be covered by the limited number of men and women, although it is unlikely that this group will be large when compared with the number of women and men. So I want to ask you why. Senator: At one time a group of women was not exaggerating, yet we kept women in the way of achieving our rights in as many areas as possible in our community. Why is this objective group not taken into account? I realize that it was referred to others, but why did the committee not use it?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u69	Mr. President. We had these matters examined in the matter of sexual autonomy and had them come to the office of equality. It pointed out that the wording of the bill should be adjusted more correctly in line with the wording in the bill for a new universal layer of equal status and the sexual rights presented at the General Assembly. It contains 1 mg. Twenty-eight. suggests that the proportion of men and women equal to and not less than 40% for more than three agents is in charge in committees, councils, and government groups. It was considered that women's status and that the minimum percentage of women would have to be guaranteed and these neutral genders could not be looked at in terms of counsel and government by the government, that this would have to ensure a minimum proportion of women.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u70	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir for the speech. I immediately called for it at the beginning of the discussion today. A senator, the first official of the matter, would be here for the discussion. It's fine that it happens now, but it would have been possible that it would have happened sooner. I'm gonna start with something else. I had a vision of asking what. A senator of what was revealed last year's counterargument. paritaprevir According to Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Már Stefánsson's account would be discussed in the Committee between 2 and 3. A discussion was delayed on December 7, and a meeting was held on December 8, where a guest appeared to me at the meeting I have, Professor Stefán Stefánsson. What was discussed and done at that meeting? How should those who are not members of the Governing Body recognize what was done there? And why is the matter back to the second? since the comments of Professor Stefán's Már Stefánsson have not been discussed, which I understood as being the main reason why the discussion was delayed on December 7? This is all completely incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u71	Mr. President. Let me explain why. Senator. It had been attempted for some time to have Professor Stefán Stefánsson attend a meeting with the committee, and it went badly out of time with him, he is a busy man. Then he could come that day, but the matter had been planned here at the council, and a discussion was started. It was always before, and was introduced at the beginning of the discussion by the members of the committee's opinion. paritaprevir The crowning of Signý's Kristjánsdóttir, the taking of the case between the 2nd and the 3rd. 2nd. It did not end so that the case could be taken between the 2nd and 3rd. There is nothing that prevents the job committee from discussing matters with visitors even if the matter is not returned to the committee. The case was postponed by the highest. The president and it was requested by certain members of Congress that other cases be set in motion because there seemed to be a policy of filing for a certain committee. The case was postponed to support the development of other cases that needed to be completed prior to a year's convention and that the case did not go to the committee. It's as simple as that. When we finish 2. (For fully formatted text, see publication) Whether first, the case goes back to the Committee, and we discuss the perplexing issues asked about, concerning the comments of Professor StefánMár Professor Stefánsson, and may call others to the committee to discuss the matter. In this way we will continue to work on the committee, and hopefully we'll get it back to 3rd. I think everybody's waiting for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u72	A respectable president. I just have to make some comments about that answer why. Senator. When a discussion was delayed here on December 7th, at the time. 19,52 was the highest. President of Steingrímur J. Sigfússon in a pita. When the case was delayed, it says, by permission of the president, word for word: ▪ The talk on the 7th session is now postponed, and I have been informed by the chairman of the case that it is best called back to the committee at this point and will then be done. The discussion is postponed, and the case goes back to what? Promissitary Committee.◯ So many were words. This is for a tape from the Senate Hall. Now's the time. The chairman of the committee and the first traveling overseer of this case and the chairman of the committee. The answer is what? There's no answer to a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u73	Mr. President. All I do is work with the information I have from the President of the Generals on this matter. I don't know what to do. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir called in the case except between the 2nd and 3rd. I got that information from the highest. As a result, he puts it back on the program here. It's as simple as that. I'm not gonna argue with what. A senator must be able to decide. But my information is that the case has been postponed. Sadly, as I said earlier, I was not able to attend this discussion and I did not attend that meeting the next day because of illness.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-27-49.u74	V.E.G. President. I just want to start by saying, "Come on, ladies." Last speaker, w. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, said, "Let's go, women, let's go. And I also say, "Let's go, women." I have always had great respect for women, and at times I have tried to put myself in their thoughts. It may not have gone very well, so I'm not always comfortable understanding which glasses they watch in life. But I have great respect for women, that they may be said. I have to say, I think it's very strange that this matter is back on schedule. As noted here in previous talks and just answers, this case was called into the job committee between the 2nd and 3rd. Then Stefán Stefánsson came to the meeting, and I was saying that something would be done in the case after that meeting, nothing more was heard, so it would change, or even be put on ice or put to sleep, or whatever the way we put it. But then, suddenly, it's on schedule today, and I have to repeat that I wonder. It was also stated, naturally speaking, that here almost all men have spoken up. Then I just thought I can't help it if I'm a man, I was born in a man's body, I've been a man up here, so I'm talking like one. It's all too much to compare with, I feel, especially in discussions here at the High General Assembly, when we're talking about equality in some area, such as. This, that our presence is somehow taken in a very delicate way, when we open these men's mouths, white men, who are past my middle age. I think that after this discussion today, I mustered up courage to stand by myself and be proud to be a white male in the middle of my age or older. I'm going to stay here to respect women and say, "Let's go, women." But I'm sure I'll do better with myself and what I think. I listened to a talk. paritaprevir Brynjar the son of Níelsson answered him, which was basically an answer that is probably forbidden these days. He only inspired me to talk about matters out of my own chest, as it says in what we sign when we go to Congress, i.e. that a senator is exclusively bound to his own thoughts, I don't remember what it's said, but it was nice to remember it for me. But I just want to talk about the issues we now discuss. It has been observed that these are laws since 2010, they are about ten years old. Transporters say it's time to add a guilty plea because it goes so slowly, it doesn't work fast enough that these laws can be done. What's ten years? They're just a very short period of time, I think, in this context. I feel that I have done a great job of enforcing these laws. I'm not saying that I completely agree that it was passed on. I think it could have been totally won without those songs. But it's all right, it's been legal, and it's gone perfectly well. I also want to make it known that the law is man's work, that law is not something maligned in stone. Laws are human works, and they can be changed, or they can be taken care of, so that they can be said to do so. The figures tell us that in corporate management with 50 or more people, women are nearly 35%. So there is not much that is lacking in reaching the goal - are we talking about 40 or 50%? Let's just say 50%, that's half. I don't really have much to do with it, and that's why I think this bill is a complete time error and just a kind of bullying. A company must be run so that it's going well, otherwise it'll just go bankrupt. If any company that has not met this percentage should start paying a fine, they may be in a position to be in trouble because they are not in contact with a government that would otherwise have been involved. We don't want companies to go wrong, and I don't think it's polite to call such companies hanging out. This kind of legal action is very hard on me and on us that we don't agree with this. We had one subject on the program yesterday, which is a unit of rural society where legal force on rural society to unite within a certain time frame and those who present that matter would consider it worth a fine price. But time has worked with us in the matters we discuss here, as shown by numbers. The 35% share of women in the management of companies with 50 or more, that's a fact. Hv. paritaprevir In his speech, Ólafur Ísleifsson, who along with the small - minded business committees before Christmas, and frankly, I thought that part of the subject had changed my mind after the 7th December when Stefán Stefánsson met with the committee. I would like to read the minority opinion that is not very long, with the permission of a president: ▪ The goal of ensuring equality between men and women has no conflict. The smaller part, however, sets a question mark on whether the recommended method of this bill, i.e. very burdensome day tickets that can study 3 billion. K. 36 million per month. K. every year, it is desirable to work toward that goal and meet the demands of moderate honor. - That's pretty polite, up to 36 million. K. A year in a company that doesn't meet this condition, if this bill was to be legal. ▪ The Motion asked two questions about the bill held under Stefánsson Motorsson, professor and specialist in social law. First, the lesser part asked how far the government is permitted to walk in the light of basics in the social rights and after the experiences of property rights, including for the free treatment of people's possessions, with a requirement for employment companies to achieve social goals by means of financial pressure measures such as daylight, as laid down in the bill. Stefán's response was as follows: It should be kept in mind that the social freedom and the following occurrences of their property rights protected by the Constitution's terms on various aspects of the government, including the Lawgiver. For this reason, the principle is that corporations control their own affairs as well as those of their owners. This right, however, can be impaired if such impairments are supported by grammatical views, including average - scale views. That would be, for example. It is a perfunctory view to try by sentence to match the proportions between men and women in some companions' governments. A moderate degree, though, must be taken into consideration. It means looking for ways that will impair the minimum rightness of partners to control their own concerns and possessions, but it can still cause them to reach their target. - That's the whole point where we're talking about the money Act counting on us to get involved in this business. (b) How do the laws of the nations differ from those of the nations? ▪ In the case of unions owned by a state or community, there are far more available sources of authority in order to establish laws of the above - mentioned kind. Thus, the available bill may be compatible with such associates. There is, however, greater doubt in the case of a private company. In any case, that law would have to be clear and predictable. This means that [the] use of forced measures will be used unless a legal authority is considered to be sufficiently clear and to care for possible exceptions that need to be clear as well. Similarly [must] be reasoned (e.g. in the legal expositing data) that less efficient measures were not available to meet the gender ratio target in governments. Second, the smaller section asked what sort of case action should be carried out in the field of government that would be entrusted with power to employ burdensome measures as recommended in the bill for a protocol, a moderate, protest rights, government information, etc. and what viewpoints on flexibility in the light of different circumstances might be appropriate. Stefán's answer showed that it depends primarily on the authority. If it were an open source, it would be safer to be careful and not use a warrant unless there was a relatively obvious neglect. In partnerships and private partnerships it could easily be a case where a society could not guarantee equal gender status. It should, e.g. Append to a percentage election. In such a situation, it would hardly be advisable to make a date. It would also be necessary to observe all administrative regulations and in this regard to the position of the administrative authority that lays a date and allows such decisions to be reported to a higher administrative level. The minority feels that the above is a reason to change the bill so that flexibility will be increased and that there will be a higher degree of restraint in the government's intervention of employment companies. The smaller part considers it necessary for a member whose day is determined to be clear enough to review such a decision at the level of government, to be largely different from the cost and effort required to determine whether or whether a decision is filed by a higher government or to be judged. The lesser part counts from the above because the case is not ready to be taken care of. It must be referred back to the Committee for further discussion between 2 and 3. that the details considered to be available will be taken into account in more detail. And now this case is on the way back to the Committee, and I hope that the minority will be taken into account. As I said earlier in my speech, I would have in my heart that I didn't need to be a law on equality in corporate governments. There is not much freedom in having to establish such laws, nor is there any guilt because there are people who have become so impatient when statistics show that there is not much need. It has been said in the previous talks that this is almost all men who had spoken. I remember here before Christmas, when we were discussing these matters, that was why. paritaprevir Sigríður Á. Andersen addressed and received the case completely. She's in the board and she's a woman. She spoke of being impatient. I don't quite remember what she said, but she talked about it being unacceptable and I want to agree with it. On the other hand, the question is, what does this case smell, but I hope, when it goes to the job committee, that the more part will take account of what is presented in our opinion in the lesser part. Then we'll see what happens. However, the legal rights to the Constitution have also come up with a talk and as a question of a democratic approach. I don't think this discussion has taken much flight, and I haven't had much time to look into it. If there is any doubt as to the legal rights of the Constitution, I feel that there is a need to revise and give it a good time. Surely we would not want the State to expect a case that would require much money and much trouble if the bill became a law.
