ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-86.u1	Borist has received a letter from the following letter of advisers requesting every time to provide written answers to queries: from a social and child-reversary for the inquiry of 1124, for counselling services, recruitment and temporary tasks, from Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, and on the 1145 Parliamentary document for legal counseling; from Björn Leví Gunnarsson; from marine rights and agricultural ministers for the inquiry of a council application 1131, on recruitment, employment and temporary projects, from Gunnar Sveinsson Sjönson; and finally from foreign and development ministers for conferences at 979, on the Ministry of Relations, from the House of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-86.u2	Mr. President. It is of utmost importance when the bank manager himself says that Iceland is governed by interest groups and makes comments to Samherja's attack on employees of his organisation. It is most serious that the bank manager comes forward and calls for the lawgiver to set a clearer law in order to protect and protect government officials from the lure of big corporations, which are unable to track and put down staff of their institutions. It's a heavy, serious word and a heavy and serious call from the bank manager here at the General Assembly for laws to be made in defense. This is an amazing interview that the bank manager gave this weekend for a case that began with house searches in 2012 because of suspicion of a violation of currency that was about a few million but that has become a huge case. What, though, has been the response of government leaders? Chairman of the budget board and the Supreme Court. One prime minister has mentioned the need to consider these issues in context, to be careful with the sources of authority, to consider the general authority and the need for discussion. Mr. President. Listening to this reaction is disappointing. That would've been the highest. The prime minister, in my opinion, is to step down firmly in defense of public officials and defend the efforts of a large business that does nothing. At the same time that Samherji ruthlessly targets the Kingdom Radio press, with constant propaganda, so that people become persecuted to us, the Lawgiver, from the bank's bank manager, that the bank is vulnerable to the efforts of his staff. At the same time as we're getting under control, such as the Contestant Control and turning the tax investigator into a ward with the Fratelli, the bank manager complains about the use of a big company. Mr. President. All too much influence for stakeholders, such as the country's richest seaside company into politics, is a lesion we've had to deal with in Icelandic society for a long time, and now government officials have to give a clear signal that things need to be changed. [[The president calls.]] There's nothing to wait for.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-86.u3	A respectable president. A social reformer who had found a job with support of 472,000 a month and an 11.5% contribution to a pension fund was denied from a labour agency because he did not fit into a government frame. Why is it so hard to say no to those who have tried to earn a living in a miserable situation? in a month, and where all income is made, does it also make a mate's income? How on earth can the government set out rules for working for the worst in society, which leave people in their position? The budget is to offer any who are in the terrible position of being on the social reforms of the rural society right away with the support of 472,000 bucks. a month and an 11.5% contribution to a pension fund. I can't imagine that's a lot of people. This is exactly the group needed to get out of a miserable situation and to work with working people. When people in such situations find work, for God's sake, let them work. Don't say no to people who show a willingness to get out of a lot of trouble. At the same time as being introduced to employment, which supports 472,000 dollars. contributes to death from shell, and does not receive the unemployment benefits they have a right. Students are not allowed to go to this research, working with support, and they are also entitled to earn a job, unemployment reform, a government education. Students pay billions of of their wages on a non-employment fund, but they refuse to pay their money for unemployment. Students cannot obtain unemployment if they take more than ten units, which is ridiculous because this is a work enterprise and right to pay. A moderate word that has been used recently by members of the council. Why not include moderateness in this matter and not merely mediocrity? The people first, and especially those who need it, say the Party of the People.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-86.u4	A respectable president. I notice that there has been some confusion in the Ministerial Guard these past few days, especially in the highest degree. A health minister who directs his spear to the opposition. I agree that the government situation is different, but it has not gone to that old class of greens, and prime minister, to feed insecurity, uncertainty, and suspicions in these times. Rather, we have tried to support the government's actions to the fullest extent possible and, of course, correct the dellarkai on which they will succeed. We're not an automatic stamp in here. But the chaos, and we must understand it, is also directed toward her own armies within the government, including the government. To the largest group, the Independence Party, which is not always with her in the ranks. But it must be said at the moment that it will be difficult for the highest level. Health Minister to blame the Independence Party for nursing problems. It's an old-fashioned problem. Of course, older people want to influence their own lives. They want to have a variety of resources, a variety of resources, in order to serve just the diverse groups of older citizens. But a nursing home's problem is old. He has long been known in the Ministry of Health. And a health minister who gets it all approved by the Independence Party, whether it's sending people into replacement surgery or sending screens out of the country - this agrees with the Independence Party all together - cannot be complaining about members of the government in this regard. When it comes to the nursing home, the health minister made a direct agreement with other administrations, both in budgetary and financial programs, about not doing anything in nursing homes. That is absolutely unacceptable. This is a problem that must be faced now, and there must be a health minister and the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-86.u5	The president allows himself to remind you that if anything happens. The members of Congress want to direct their words directly to another senator, and they have the opportunity to alert the members of that body so that the senator can be here to answer and participate in the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-86.u6	President. Yesterday, in the Castlelight, the health minister was unhappy that she had not received enough support, especially among the government's sidelines, to her bill that was delivered here in one day. We also know, according to the hearing on the subject, that the bill was written in one day. One day writing a bill, one day working on a bill. I think we can all see that there's not a very good mechanism in any way, especially when we see that the implementation of these quick-sized laws is not even ready. The memo is not ready to be written on top of the law. It would have been possible to work with the law, for when the government gives a case to the council, she naturally assumes that it will be handled materially, especially because there has been no evidence that the council was born to settle the Covid case. The problem is that the majority of the cases here are always being anticipated, giving the World Council the prefect of the U.S.R. We don't have enough time to go through the issues that come here. In fact, the matter acknowledged that it was created in a very short time, not in two weeks that the government had since the decision of the first Regulation was made but in one day. For some reason, even though the project is not yet completed, the General Assembly is moving one day to settle and we have to wait to see what Regulation looks like and a driver's memo looks like when the law is approved. It delays the act of the law that we had to resolve in one day. [[The president calls.]] I don't think it's a good job when we're dealing with such serious issues as disease prevention.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-86.u7	Mr. President. The position of some kids in elementary school is a serious concern. The law on elementary school says about the right students, with the permission of a president: ▪ All preschoolers have the right to teach in an encouraging study environment in an appropriate setting, which takes into account their needs and their general well - being. I have a letter to Reykjavíkurburg for a child born in 2015 to begin his primary schooling in the fall. The result of the state's diagnostic and counseling centre is that the child is the best paid in a special ward for some kind of person, and the child was applied for it. An answer was received from the school and vacation area of Reykjavíkurburg on April 21, with the following heading: ▪ For a request that an application be submitted to a school course in a special department for some students. The letter shows that 38 students were applied in special departments, but only eight space is available. This means that out of 38 students with someone else, there'll be eight. There are some 21% candidates: This means that the other 80%, 30 children, do not have legal rights for proper teaching. Mr. President. A planned demonstration of schooling in a specialized department for some students is contrary to the strict principles of elementary school. Its content is to ensure that all students have the right to teach appropriately. That lesson is on the responsibility and cost of the city of Reykjavík in this case. The Ministry of Education is monitoring that rural society meets the responsibilities of the elementary school law. Every three years the secretary shall submit a report on the implementation of school activities in the elementary schools of the country. Mr. President. A letter cited in the city of Reykjavík's school and leisure field shows that some children are seriously violated against the right to receive their proper teaching.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-86.u8	Mr. President. During the last Thursday, the Council of Europe adopted a declaration including The Turkish government is asked to respect human rights in that country, to give up efforts to dissolve the second - largest political party, HDP, and to eliminate a third of the members of the Parliament and mules of the media. There the authorities are also criticized for reporting on the Istanbul Treaty without any democratic discussion or criticism there. I, along with all the European category of their left members at the Council of Europe and the overwhelming majority of the council, agreed to the resolution. It is important that international institutions, such as the Council of Europe, protect human rights and provide no financial discount. It is always serious when authorities try to limit freedom of thought or to bring about the right of democratic elections to do their job, as it seems to be in Turkey today, and recent examples from Catalonia have shown. The Icelandic government is to take the matter into account with the Turkish government, and I did not think it would be unusual to discuss the matter at the Council's State Department. Icelanders have shown this, including In the United Nations Human Rights Council, a small nation can take note of international notice.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-86.u9	President. Samherja's campaign, which has been on the last few months, and these last weeks with intense attacks on the honor and reputation of Helgi Seljan, has led to the recent growth of Iceland on the list of press freedoms of the countries, soon published by the press organization of the press. The organization specifically identifies Samherja's campaign against the media, which has discussed the activities of Shamherja in Namibia. The organization also expresses concern that confidence in journalists and journalists has increased globally. What is the government going to do in that an enterprise assigned to take the resources of the nation uses the resources for a national campaign against the media? The media need to be able to criticize, point to corruption, and show effective control over rulers and corporations. Of course, I agree with the highest words. The prime minister of yesterday's need to step gently to the ground when freedom of expression is inhibited. But if there's supposed to be the freedom of expression by a big firm to equalize the media freedom to inform the public about corruption, then the government's values need to be examined. Or is it that we are going to respect the freedom of expression by those who have more money than those who take away the veil of corruption? Is it the money that matters here, the profit it has been given to the U.S. Army and other large fishing companies on a silver plate? Is the government afraid of the media, or is it afraid of the financial powers in this country? Is the insurance now so high that one of the largest fishing companies in the country that controls one of the nation's largest resources is allowed to wade through here with a slander that has the sole purpose of choking critical discussions and preventing reporters from doing their job, to shoot the messenger out of the public? Of course, there is a need to improve the media environment, but confidence in the media cannot be corrected by such simple changes. [[The president calls.]] The State and the General must show in action and action that we understand the importance of free media in Iceland, the media freedom of expression and, above all, the importance of freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-86.u10	Mr. President. From April 15, I will discuss the recent challenge of the Western government on transport. The community government, all behind the challenge, calls attention to the fact that a full assessment of the land should be completed and the possibility of land - to - island development has to be completed. We've identified uncertainty on a general flight to the Western Islands. The service of a medical flight to the Western Islands is not acceptable. After the Eytar medical flight has moved to Akureyri, the duration of response has increased and is unacceptable to the population, especially after the hospital in the West Sea hospital was closed. Her existence was just one of the reasons for the transfer of the Aegean hospital plane. In fact, the Aegeans lost both the hospital flight and the operating room and then they could live with it. The ship's expectations have been fully met by a new dresser, and its electronization has proved to be pleasant in many ways. The Cape of the Land Islands has to finish. The evaluation must be completed so that improvement can be done in order to benefit from its initial projection. Coastal travel falls from time to time because of waves. This problem needs to be resolved. The challenge of the Western government was also about the need to complete a study of the rockwork between land and Eyjama. Confronted with the town council. Of course, it is urgent that the study of the rock on the island will be completed. In particular, it will be considered whether the way west of the island is up to the time of the geologically acceptable cross, followed by a practical assessment of whether it is a practical option for future voyages to the islands. It can be said that technological development and knowledge have increased greatly since public discussion of tunnels between the land and the island took place 15 years ago. In this regard, it is important to consider what is being saved; the cost of transporters, depth, maintenance, and, of course, the need for renewal of all aspects of the island, electricity and water outside the uncertainty and insecurity. Entries don't have a walk-up problem. The Faeroe Islands tunnel is 11.7 miles [12 km], the Sand Island tunnel is 108 miles [0.8 km], and the Southern tunnel under the sea is 26 miles [2 km].
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-86.u11	Mr. President. One of the consequences of the economic situation we now enjoy because of the crown virus is that the dollar left a piece of jewelry last year. Thus, in September 139 K.E., the value of the U.S. dollars was in January 129. ... andnowabout 125Ks. The crown has grown by 11% since the end of September last year. When such a scholarship occurs, one begins to ask about goods in Iceland, why doesn't it slow down? Usually, the answer has been that like merchants getting goods by early autumn and spring ships. They're always selling old supplies. I wouldn't mind buying oranges from last year. But the inflation that is now around 4% of those on high has been predicted to be this year. That in itself is incomprehensible, Mr. President, when we take into account the fact that the dollar is making so much money. The trade has shown that there is much to say. In the store I shop for, I usually have to clean up myself because almost every box has been removed. I don't know if the tranqs have been paid so much that it would prevent a drop in price to the public. This has a side effect, Mr. President. Today or yesterday, one of the largest business conventions in Iceland, the Fast, announced that the economy of the kit had increased above expectations by 50% during the first quarter of this year. Now you have to ask why a company like that can't reduce the price of goods. And there must be a clear answer to that question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-86.u12	Mr. President. No doubt the most sensitive cases on the team are sexual assaults. There, victims are especially vulnerable, and bacteria are often close. How important it is, therefore, that we put our arms around these fractions and all their treatments carefully and skillfully and respectfully toward people! Today, the sex crime department in the capital area is under strict pressure to expand its service to sexual offenders. Work is even. based on a study of services for tolerability conducted by the University Police Department of Akureyri. Happily, the trend has been that sex offenders increasingly turn to the police, but it was too long so that those with endurance could understand it or would not trust the police, courts, or other systems to handle these matters. During the past few years, these matters have been followed by a big step. With the arrival of Bjarkarlls and the Bjarmahli Congregation in Akureyri, the issues of tolerance have been allotted. Then, at last assembly, we agreed on a sexual, sexual, and sexual abuse program for the first time. One of the things the police in the capital area have done is simple but important, and it is the transformation that room interrogators of sexual abuse attend for an interview differ from other people. It's more homey, and it's warmer. We view sexual abuses other than other acts of violence, whether it touches children or adults, as sexual privacy is one of the most sacred things each person has. The consequences of such violence are even evident. In self - blame, doubts about personal experiences, and, in many cases, the sufferers do not yet trust themselves to step forward and seek help. Our task as a community is to contribute to the trust that people will seek their rights when they face violence. It's the work of the police, the courts, the health care professionals, and all of us here in this room. So I welcome this investigation and the efforts of the police to improve the services of the victims of these crimes. This is important, and it is necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-86.u13	A respectable president. The situation is that hundreds of children and young people have to wait for months for psychological services. The head of Iceland's Psychologist Society has said that this is a major problem. A case waiting for private psychology clinics that do children run in hundreds, the waiting period is counted in months. Sadly, the same chairman says that this situation is a rule rather than an exception, saying that because of the long wait period at the government, parents find it more understandable to a special living room where things get up and the waiting period is in some case up to a year. There is a waiting period for a child psychologist to vary according to clinics. In the capital area, he is considered to be about three months, while in others, he is up to six to seven months and even longer. A respectable president. This was reported for the weekend, but in itself it is not a new position. We're discussing a basic child service. We're talking about healthy children. There is reason to remind you once more that the Council has approved laws allowing a health minister to resolve these matters. But I would also like to refer my words specifically to the child - care minister, who has spoken about it and because the systems must be able to communicate in behalf of the children. I sincerely agree with him, but I would point to him that the government also talks together, the child - care minister and health minister, and solves this situation and the emergency problems of children waiting for months for health care.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-86.u14	A respectable president. If a senator can handle public funds and needs to use his own judgment, he will say himself that a senator can abuse that power. If another senator on the government side called for an investigation of how a member of the Parliament handles public funds, then the governor is guilty of violating the World Council's Code of Morality. This is the situation we live in today. When we set ethical standards, it was in the hope that our work would be improved, not covering the rest of the section for maintenance. But that's the situation we live in today. Another example of a failure of moral code is at the Kingdom Radio, where a journalist named The Public Seljan dared to express his opinion publicly. A company named Samherji was reported to have received extensive publicity from a skilled journalist. Samji charges very many of the government radio officials for violations of ethical principles, and it remains to agree that the Helgi Seljan, the Supreme Court. A journalist, has violated the moral code of public expression on his own political views. Not for lying, not for bad manners in their news movement, but just for expressing themselves. Both these examples, a respectable president, are evidence that we live in a quiet culture and have always known mine. It is so deeply established and so profound that we can't even see it, even making us feel responsible for living in a society where freedom of expression is so highly respected. A respectable president. Not so and the real thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-86.u15	A respectable president. Yesterday we discussed the situation with regard to the nation's vaccinations and the vision we have in the weeks and months to come. I believe that there is a time for great opportunities to open the country. I can hear all around me ordering spills into hotels and car property. So on March 16, when a valid vaccination certificate was agreed to be taken from Britain and the United States. Blue Ranjanestown's garage saw an amazing response in the reservations of rental cars immediately after the government's decision. Arrangers'car owners have reported an 800 new cars to be ordered. That is an indication of optimism during the summer. The same is happening in hotels I know about in my district. There are orders for the summer, and examples show that 50% of the books are already available. Guðmundur Viðarsson of Pálagitti reports a great voyage island in a well-paying American country, from where orders come in, and a great deal must be done when the summer passes. On the other hand, long - range horses from countries where the Icelandic horse lives are more reluctant. A respectable president. In addition, airlines are putting themselves in the starting holes for the summerfish. Iclanders have an immensely powerful network of destinations. Over the past few months, fresh products have been exported and have kept in touch with neighboring countries. Delta, the American airline, is about to start a high-priority supply from several camps in the United States to Cheflavík. There's a lot of evidence of good status in this country by the Covid epidemic. We are to rejoice in it. A new airline, Play, is sending crews to training and is scheduled to be on the market when the country opens in the summer. It's like everything's gonna fall with us Icelanders. In the South, a volcanic eruption came that will attract thousands of tourists and resurrect their professional life there.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-86.u16	A respectable president. It has been fun to observe the adventures of Húsavík during the past few weeks after the song "Húsavík" was proposed to Oscar's prizes in the category of original song songs. In cooperation with the people behind the film, houses seized the opportunity to make a new adventure. An amazing video on the move was released at Húsavík. No, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But a fairy tale like this will not come about by itself. The foundation of the adventure is laid with an attractive environment for filmmaking in Iceland. Moviemaking has taken place here in the future as important art and employment. It is an international one, can be self-sustaining, and creates enormous value for state funds. The work programme creates a wide range of knowledge and skills in Icelandic society and on 4,000 direct and secondary jobs and attracts foreign investments. By 2020, a record year was coming when it comes to reimbursement for film making in Iceland. Projects were such that governments added funds to budgets. The media has been talking about the use of electronic instruments around filmmaking by further supporting the article, e.g. by increasing reimbursement from the current level of 35% of production costs. It is possible to make film production even more powerful for the European economy. Last autumn, filmism was adopted until 2030. The policy was taken in close cooperation between professional and government leaders. Secretary of education and culture. The film policy is an important recognition of the article. Also, the adventure in Húsavík did not come about by itself. Well done, Húsavík, succeed in using this little Eurogout and Oscar adventure to create joy and solidarity in the town of Húsavík and all over the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-86.u17	Mr. President. Two matters of Congress have been on this agenda and will be scheduled for the Council today, which has to do with Iceland's attitude and relations with the European Union. Iceland is an independent and sovereign state, and the European Union is a Union of independent and sovereign countries who have decided to share their destiny in part. This is done primarily in order to preserve peace in the continent. This is done primarily to increase the prosperity of the inhabitants. This is done in many ways. I strongly believe that Iceland should take its place among these nations. We often tend to look at things solely out of crowns and pennies. What will help us to share in such cooperation? We're not supposed to set that standard solely on European cooperation and participation in Iceland. We should set that standard, at least To the same extent: What can we do to contribute to this great cooperation? What can we do to improve Europe? [[The president calls.]] We have much to offer, and we should not look at these matters from the standpoint of the little one, no matter what.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-86.u18	Mr. President. My request, as discussed here, is about the circumstances of families with disabled children living in a rural area. According to the law on the services of the disabled, with a great deal of support, the Department of Social Affairs is responsible for public policy in the seminary and also the operation of the law. That's in view of what I'd like to hear from the highest level. Department of Social Affairs on the aspects of serving to the families of disabled children in rural areas. The law shall ensure that disabled children receive the necessary services so that they can enjoy human rights and privacy as much as other children, live their own lives, and participate in the community without separation. Then disabled children should have real access to education, training, employment preparations, and leisure activities. Furthermore, the law states that the families of disabled children receive sufficient services to give their disabled children their rights to the full and equal value of others. These include family members and partners in the home. Under certain circumstances, this support is one of the most important, both for the disabled child and for his family. Sadly, at the same time, it is a fact that these services are often difficult for families in rural areas. So I ask the highest. Social Minister: What is the best way to ensure that families of disabled children who have a great need to live in rural areas are supported by the law? Some families living in a rural area may not be able to take advantage of a foreign word about financial support in order to hire the necessary partners because no one is available to the work. This, on its own, must be a major concern and reason for action, as the following law states that a minister will offer proposals for improvement in community service where needed. I'd like to ask you if it's the highest. A minister suggests that in situations where families cannot live as a result of having traditional support services that they have the right to provide for their disabled children, the funds can follow the disabled child but are not bound by a system that does not work in the situation. I know the example of conversations with families who live under those circumstances, e.g. in the West, that they can't get the money unless they use it in a certain way. If that path doesn't work out, even. Because of a rural area, the funding support drops, even though the family can show that they can use their support in another way to support their child in play and work. Tells you the highest. Minister of this inflexible system? Do I agree that my child's interests and their families are better protected by having the flexibility of funding for the disabled child? '
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-86.u19	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry and would like to say right from the start, before I take a theoretical explanation for this answer, that in general I have the support of children regardless of services systems. I think it's one of the things new legislation on successful children will bring us more into the years when we start to see the induction of the laws, not directly related to this inquiry, but to every child in the Icelandic community that faces any challenges. For services rendered to disabled persons with long - term support, the local community is responsible for its organization and activities, including the quality of the ministry and its organization. The services are served by the personnel of a rural partner or by private partners who are agreed to supervise the company. The community should ensure that disabled persons have a supportive service that is necessary for them and that services are to be performed in each rural society, adapting it to local circumstances. Laws include. This should be made up of especially the need for disabled children for care and training, along with the necessary service to their families. In spite of this, circumstances vary, such as the senator mentioned here, without any isolated trace of us, but the nature of the case has, in fact, entered the Ministry Board. So I say there are some things that have come up in connection with the current law, No. 38/2018, of the services of disabled persons with long-term supportive needs, who need a review. In fact, when they were accepted, we knew that such things would arise and were discussed, both by those standing here and by the representatives of all political parties involved in their agreement. We've started that job, and just before the January / February convention, everything that is involved was covered by the issues and challenges that have come up, the things that have not worked, the things that need to be considered and considered. This is clearly one of the factors to be expected in that work. This issue was not something that the current government proposed and finished at zero one at the beginning of the terms of the election. Rather, it had been a long working career, a long way of speaking, to which all stakeholders had been involved, rural society, and political groups. I think it's important to consider that the experience we have when we follow through. There's a lot of good in these laws, and we've done a lot of good, but there's things that need to be handled better, and then I think it's important to do that in the same way, i.e. ... toprovideallofyou. However, it has also been an assignment to the region that has been well - supplied. I mention to form the development of cross-cutting national teams for coordination, counseling, quality, etc. They've had a good share, and such part of the country has been established in the South, in cooperation with the State's analyses and counseling centre, and in the South, they're working on building such a team. But then I end up answering a question. I believe that under certain circumstances, financial support and a greater flexibility will be involved in the construction of the tools and services of the individual. But I'm also a little scared of it, and I need to make sure that there's a certain line there. Of course, we also want to be a professional and good minister to those children, and that is the thinking behind the whole system. At the same time, there must be flexibility, but it should not be too much in certain areas, for we do not want to compromise our professional and expertise. I agree with this inquiry at what? A senator who says: This is one of the factors involved in the review currently in the introduction of all concerned parties.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-86.u20	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I'm going to start by saying two things: I'm very happy to hear that attitude, to the highest. A minister agrees with me in that even under certain circumstances, money will go well with the disabled child and his family. I fully agree with the minister that a change in this system must not lead to some discount on the quality of that service and professionalism. But I'm also afraid that if everything gets put under that hat this important change will be completely fixed. One terms is e.g. A rather long time in the life of a disabled child in a rural town that cannot be supported, as much as a long time for the family of that child. I think we can take small, important steps in this matter. I know that, for example. Support partners are primarily for relief; there are rarely special educational or professional requirements for them. In that case, this inflexibleness in the system is up to the incomprehensible in the case of families who simply live under these circumstances, living in rural areas, that cannot be obtained from human beings. It's advertised, it's funding, but there's just no one available or who's running for this particular job. The family has other ideas, might solve this with the help of some two days a week that would come a little longer, or in some way possible for relief. And it simply states in the law that a minister has the means to make recommendations to fellow rurals for improvement in the ministry. So there could be flexibility, there might be a little bit of an opening that a minister would suggest improvement without going into the whole system and it would wait for them longer, because, as I say, each year matters for these people, these children and their families.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-86.u21	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator back there. Since 2018, from the time these laws went into effect, we have been in contact with some societies or with some local organization or communities that have agreed to serve disabled people. So there is no objection. There is also a degree of flexibility in the law against rural society in order to do this. There's nothing excluded, and I even think that is too weak to say, I don't think there's any resistance in general, that we can have a degree of flexibility when these cases arise because they're not too many and we've got them on our board. However, it is also true that the matter is not being handled directly by the Ministry. It is not directly available to the Ministry, but it is an independent surveillance agency by a minister who oversees the law. We've also been following some lines in that we've separated in a certain way; the Ministry is the policy maker, the executive. In this case, it is quite clear that rural society is responsible for the ministry. But then we have an independent surveillance agency and I know that there have been a lot of cases that have been in there, not just related to disabled children. But the minister and the Ministry have no direct access to it. I can't see any way out of the way, because I can't see a lot of ground to deal with any of these things... that rural society can be more flexible. But it's on the table of my own team members, that's what I wanted to end up saying in this discussion. But I appreciate it. A senator for this inquiry and the exchange of words we've had on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-86.u22	A respectable president. One of the big paces of the biographer agreements was abbreviated workweek. This large battle of working people will give people more freedom and flexibility in the way they employ their never - to - be - too - many waking moments. Of course, we should continue on this journey, and I believe the next step should be to shorten the work week to 30 hours a week. We should be determined to make good use of the high value gains of technology in connection with the fourth industrial revolution to continue to shorten people's working hours and improve the benefits in general. The benefits of such changes would be vast for employees and society all, and would also help to improve the balance between employment and privacy and a better quality of life. In this regard, there were some of the results of a research project in the State on abbreviated workweek published in 2019 that was of interest. It's even coming. to have a higher quality of life experienced six months after shortening. The time of the post - work work work group was more effective in caring for their close family members as well as for their leisure activities. The reduction in stress and stress in daily life was reduced, especially among family members with young children. I just want to stop at this point. Since coldness and stress are a serious problem in our society, I believe this part of the conclusion is particularly valuable. This suggests that with the shortening of the work period it is possible to prevent this negative health consequences, at least Partially. In general, the need for change in work places in the workplace has been discussed with the short work time. We work to live, but we do not live to win. All such structural changes also require cooperation between employees and professional drivers. Even if your knees may arise along the way, I believe that the improved quality of life achieved by a shortened week of work is well worth our continuing on this journey. Some jobs are that thebbreviated workweek will not call for dramatic organizational changes at work or that will affect the quality of the ministry. On the contrary, the performance and quality of the ministry can further increase. But this is not true of the entire labour market. Some key professions in our community, e.g. There are people who work as law enforcement or care, who work in an environment that allows for their individual organizational changes to reduce their work weeks, as collective agreements expect. The shortening of the work week must include all staff, and it must not be allowed to improve quality of life obtained from these structural changes by trade. I'd like to name special shift workers in this context. They are essential to us, but unfortunately they have been underestimated in our community too long. They work hard during unconventional, irregular work hours, often adding to the challenges of a job. So it was a big step in the last collective agreements to shorten the hours of shift workers to 32 hours. Of course, we want the government to make sure that the changes made in the most successful way and to set a good example for the rest of the labour market in these areas. In view of these, I'd like to ask the highest possible questions. The secretary of finance whether sufficient funding has been guaranteed to begin the shortened work week for public shift workers and whether a minister will have information on how many status values must be filled in the official following these organizational adjustments. And what are they?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-86.u23	A respectable president. Here is a question addressed to me about funding, and I'm just going to wind up responding directly by saying that the estimated costs of change vary depending on institutions, depending on the nature of the operation and the current shift arrangements that can vary from one place to another and the average staff ratio. The State's chief majority of shift workers work in health care or law enforcement. It is assumed that two-thirds of the cost of changing working hours will be paid to the health Department's institutions. The annual budget for the change in shift work at its institutions is now estimated to be 4.2 billion per year on the price of current budgets. This evaluation is based on the design of new positions by the part-time workers who add to the workforce, as well as the newly hired ones, and that it reduces the intercurrent variability of 5%. It should then be noted that the Ministry of Economics does not have information on the costs of rural society that also agree with this agreement. There is no final cost for those who negotiate with the state, such as through Iceland's Medical Insurance. It is expected that funding will increase the costs for these costs will be comparable to what is expected from the government. At the beginning of 2020, an increase in expenses due to the change in the Kingdom Fund was set in three ways. First, by reformation and better use of the already existing funds within the framework of the Framework. How vital it is that this factor succeeds! Second, it is assumed that the Ministry will use some of the available spending space in the current financial programme. This means that the Ministry needs to set priorities in order to be effective in this field. In general, the objective of shift change is fully in line with the purpose of many projects already funded in financial programmes. If a better use of funds and budget change is not enough to finance the change, then thirdly the budget can be used in the general reserves of this year, which are designed specifically for the further expenditures of this year. It also examines whether there is room within a number of lawsuits to make use of financial resources from the previous year allowed to be transferred to the current year. The Ministry of Economics and Economics considers that by means of the above means the project is fully funded, but there is still no final discussion with the Ministry and the institutions, and at this point there is no question of the individual relevance of these factors in this context. Certain risk factors should be taken into account that may affect the progress of the project, such as the degree of loss of overtime, the presence of new jobs, as well as the availability of essential improvement in the management of tasks. When asked how many status values are needed for the government, we can tell the state that shift workers are about one third of the state workers in about a quarter of their status or 7,300 employees in some 5,500 levels. It operates in the vast majority of the health and law enforcement institutions as shown in the past. The majority of them are women, or about 80%, and they are more likely to be part - time workers. The shortening of the labor - related shift workers will remain unchanged, taking it out, forming a design hole that can reach up to 780 levels. But, as mentioned earlier, we assume that humans will be designed mostly by changes in their working ratios and that we will break out of what we saw, e.g. in a nurse's trump not long ago, it was very common for employees to have a 50% job but then almost all to take on the odd extra shifts, so, in fact, the work rate was much higher. We are hoping to be able to break out of this, and this will result in a partial solution to the problem. At the same time, improvement in the function is expected to decrease the number of criteria needed, but at this stage it is not clear how many status values will ultimately need to be filled. I guess that'll be something. This is especially true for organizations where the majority of the group already have 100% jobs, as is true in law enforcement. We don't have much information about the situation in our communities. I'm just going to say this here, because now May 1 is ahead of us when this new arrangement is to take effect, that we have a review law 2020, which reviews the results of this and that will try in the meantime whether all who come to this case are ready to make the case work. [[The president calls.]] If the export results in a far greater cost to the State than the target, the underlying factors in itself are smiling, and this will require some adjustment in due course. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-86.u24	Madam President. The shortening of the work week is a unique opportunity to increase jobs, public employment. When I mentioned this possibility at the beginning of the epidemic to react to the historical high unemployment crisis, the procurator of the Independence Party resented and even called this idea my worst of what he had heard, no less or less. The worst idea in the world is to increase the number of nurses, police officers, hospital staff, teachers, scientists, psychologists and other classes that do so much for us and for society. This shows a great difference in ideologies. I realize how important public employees are. Not only do they create valuables in themselves but they enable private agents to create their own valuables. Madam President. Thus, the shortening of the work week is not only an opportunity to reduce stress from public employees but also an opportunity to create more jobs that really improve our service to all of us. It is especially good to take this step now in a handsome way when we need a job. There's an opportunity for me to encourage the government to take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-86.u25	Madam President. I'd like to agree with a lead starter when she agrees with these good changes about a short work week. Of course, I'm concerned about how this will be going, and I'm thinking about medical institutions. In the case of the HR manager of the Land Hospital last night, it was said that at least at least they would need to be hired. 125 new employees and other shift workers should have the expectations that this will bring them special compensations, even up to 15%. V.E.G. One minister noted that the government expected the change to cost more than 4 billion. Is that not unappreciated? Just those 125 employees cost a billion dollars at the cost of the Land Hospital, and then we have health institutions all over the country. Don't need to rethink this, chief. Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-86.u26	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers of the answers and members of the program. I agree we have to go through this well. Yet, I still believe that now is a unique opportunity to reduce stress, reduce the risk of coldness, and increase the association of family members in the community. What a challenge! There is a minister of 4.2 billion, and two thirds of that cost are primarily within health care. We also know that the pressures have been intense, the rewards have not been everywhere, and so the arrangement that the minister speaks of us trying to break out may have developed. This could mean that we would have to pay more. I think we may need to increase that budget, and I think it's an excellent opportunity, with unemployment very much, that we're hiring people into this design, as mentioned here. There are probably quite some people who have not been working for many reasons, including stress and other such, within our difficult systems, which are especially health care and health care. All right. We have to try to make use of the room within the seminary, I agree with that. But I'm only worried that there's not enough in our institutions as we've been, trying to do better there, and then the reserve. Somehow, though, we need to put our arms around this for the future. If we use the funding within this year, the more than six months this will reach, we may have to face up to the fact that we may have to do more than subside within the institutions and within the seminary as soon as we figure out how it works.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-86.u27	A respectable president. I agree with someone who says it's an exciting project. This is a big deal of progress for shift workers, especially for shift workers 24 hours a day, where work time may decrease to 32 hours a week. Still, we have given ourselves some basis for this matter. I've traced it here at the beginning of the total resources and costs of this operation, and I want to review it here that in the way we took this step, we were running an experimental project where people pretended to be able to reduce the number of working hours without progress or to increase the cost. Among other things, with the conclusion in the hands, it was decided to take the next step, first to work for the day and then to do shift work. However, when it comes to the implementation of the shift job, the importance of the export is determined in accordance with the premium. When people here say that the individual organisations may need to hire 150 people, we are a little far from the conclusion that the same number of employees could be maintained if the output was in line with what the experimental project suggested. And if that is so that 4.2 billion do not have to be added either to the billions of them, then the state of this experiment - which lasts for two years - has actually been due to a reevaluation in 2020, where the decision to make the rest - has taken on commitments far beyond what was planned. It must have to be taken into account, not only because of the context of what is going on in the public market, but because the State has then come to terms with improving the benefits far beyond the accompanying box. But let us hope that this will not happen. Let us hope that the development of the institutions will be in the target spirit that we will be able to expand our production, that the application at local level will be so that we can hold these within some normal expense frame, because if it fails, the whole project will be in a state of turmoil. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-86.u28	President. In the United States, working people have made sure that their workforce will be established by unions who negotiate through collective agreements for purchases and markets in certain professions or at specific working places with their employers or with their organisations. Remuneration, work hours, coffee and lunch breaks, holiday rights, medical rights, etc. However, while collective agreements provide a structured approach, they do not guarantee access to decision-making within the workplace, which, though, does have an undeniably great impact on the lives of employees. Therefore, I have proposed a synopsis proposal for professional democracy to be treated. The welfare committee, and I now hope that's what it is. The committee will soon turn it into a council hall. It is important to ensure increased democracy and transparency at work and can be done in a number of ways, e.g. telecommunications centres in the Commission, corporate monitoring organisations, legislation on the recruitment rights or seat in the management board. Now it just so happens. Ministers take part of the government in public communities, which are several, and have slow homework, if it is willing, to increase employment democracy, and thereby raise staff availability. That's why I'm asking the highest. Secretary of the economy, if he's willing to look at the fact that we're going this way, he's gonna ask: In what public community do employees have the right to appoint representatives in the administration? Compare, for example. A law on the State Radio, for that's where it is. In view of the views of professional democracy, ministers believe that employees should have the legal right to appoint representatives in the administration of public members, such as Isavia ohf.? What right and responsibilities should such officials have? Should there be some size limit for those associates? It is known in the world that companies often have size limits on which employees are in charge. Finally: Does Ministers believe that giving government officials of public partnerships the right to appoint representatives may be involved in the increased democracy of the labour market, where it becomes the principle that employees have representatives in the management of companies? This is something new for us, though we know it, as mentioned here, from Our Kingdom News. But this is not a more revolutionary idea than that in Germany, a relatively conservative community, professional democracy in some form, including executives, has been prevalent in certain companies of a degree since the second war.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-86.u29	A respectable president. I think it's interesting to discuss this subject, but I'm going to start by dealing with the questions presented here and giving an answer so that in general the government officials don't have a special right to appoint a member of the board. However, the budget can decide that a representative of the staff is entitled to a session at a board meeting, e.g. as hearing agents. The only exception is the one. A senator noted that the Management Board of the Kingdom Radio nominates one representative who has the right but the right to vote under the Government Radio. As a general rule, any unions in the state do not have a legal law and are not represented in the partner's law today. This means that, as a general rule, qualified individuals who allow themselves are elected to the main meeting of the shareholder and not others. All persons in the administrations of public members have the same rights and responsibilities to society according to the social law. The civilisation policy of members of the State is set out by tenants' demands and criteria for the operation of the administration and governance. The tenet conference, in sections 4.1 and 4.2, specifically discusses the rights and responsibilities and responsibilities of individuals in the administration of a partner. It is important that individuals who take up administrative work are qualified, with experience and knowledge of the work of the company, and with clear control processes. All of this is from the environment as it is written in the law today and how the tenant policy today is so that I draw it here that if it did, we would have to secure this in the frame of law today if we were to create a special seat of government for a state-of-the-art that would come from a motion, e.g. Personnel. I would also like to let it be noted here that corporate employees who are also involved in corporate management can become unable to make decisions about their position as employees. This may be the case, for example, if an employee has applied for the manager's position that the board is about to recruit the company. This may also apply if, for example, the reorganization and changes in the organisation are being carried out, influence the number of employees after the change has passed, and thereby reorganization can affect the individual's activities directly and even directly. This is something to keep in mind. In accordance with the laws of partnerships, individuals who are qualified for association or other interests should be temporarily removed from the company's administration while the case is unsaid. Therefore, it may be a challenge to achieve a truly active democracy into the government, which takes into account all opinions in decision making. This is especially true if decisions discussed in the management board directly affect the workers, affect the activities as such, and especially if the person was directly unable to do so. But by this I do not want to explain the importance of the sound of the employees'voice being heard in such decision making too. It is a question of how the management and executive apply the importance of policy development and changes in the activities of partners with the personnel organisation or key personnel at any given time. This may vary from partner to partner. At the very end, I think there may be a clear advantage in this arrangement to ensure in a formal way some sort of minimal and mixedness, that it is formal in the way of consultation is guaranteed. In many cases, we are talking about people's livelihood, and often there is too little contact with the general employee, so I feel that this is far from crazy. [[The president calls.]] But the export can be a little tricky.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-86.u30	President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. It was very good for me because of the highest. In effect, a minister brought up the largest opinion issues in this regard. Whether employees should be in the administration session or if they should try to ensure what has been called professional democracy is controversial. It was a more recent baptism for me, especially for the discussion, to ask clearly in the public communities, since, like the Supreme Court, it was quite a matter of doing so. According to a minister, they have the right to arrange their affairs so that employees can appoint an officer. I think the highest. A minister would have much to say if his will was in that such a thing would be done, if he gave it out. But I love that reflection even more. Minister, although I'm not going to quote his words directly, he didn't feel all right to look at these things. I'll ask them the highest. The minister is not alone in saying that we do so, because the proposal for a hearing I made earlier in the winter is about the fact that the minister of the jury and the people of the labour market will be assigned to order a group of workers who will review proposals and offer suggestions on how to improve democracy at work. That is just what is being looked for in the light of all the highest standards. A minister rightly called forward earlier. In the labor movement, there is a difference of opinion as to what is the best way. It's big unions that think management personnel are the right way. I personally think it's better than nothing. But I think the most important thing is to sit over it and look at it. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he does not support such a task force.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-86.u31	A respectable president. Most of all, I want to be painted as an opponent of the matter. I'm all for checking and checking, but it's always the question when you support the establishment of a working group, whether through some kind of commitment to make something happen or if you just want to go into the stitches of things. I'm still there, but I'm feeling pretty much a job looking at it. Now that I've been in the board of many partners, and when you look back, you can say in full order that it would probably have been helpful in many cases to have at the table the perspective of an experienced employee, someone who, for example, would probably have been useful at the table. well knows about the company's history and its cubs, who know well, well, let's just say what's going on in the coffee shop, and how the proposed changes in the management board might affect the working person and therefore the company's production and efficiency. In other cases, there have been no doubt many cases in which such a worker would be less inclined to say or limit his inputs. But if people make these ideas right, and there's a lot to think about what we've been thinking about here, like public agents or some sort of formal consultation that ensures that a point of view will come into practice, I think it might be a big deal to win.
