ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u1	President. I want to thank you for the work that has been done on this subject and for the support they have here. A team worked on this case for two years before it came in here. I just wanted to take advantage of the opportunity to mention the good people who did their good work here with us. I led that group. There were also members of Asdi Héck Theodorsdddótttir, from the Department of Transport and Hildur of Dungal, from the Department of Professional Affairs and Development of Jón Gunnarsson, from the Association of Professional Sciences Peter Reimarsson, from the Environmental Protection and Nature Organizations of Sigríður Droplaug Jónsdóttir's daughter and from the Union of the Icelandic Continent of Bragason and Vigdís Häsler, who divided this between them. The work was quite good that these fine people did and produced in new overall legislation for the evaluation of environmental impacts that we can be proud of today's legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u2	A respectable president. I just want to come up here and thank the Committee for doing this, which is no different from what I suggested when I spoke to the case, that it might be necessary to find compromises. The good news is that the end of the bill's objective will be a law, a goal that has been found to agree on, regardless of their views on some other part of the population, on the part of the country. to promote the state level and to make it necessary for a specific level of strength. I think we have here a tool to continue working on the completion of the synonym that was agreed on in 11 teams on the expansion of the unit level. That's a good part of that journey.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u3	Mr. President. Of course, I and the Group of the United Nations support the bill and celebrate this goal, but the right to consider that there will be additional targets for the clear operation of the government. A law on climate issues also needs to be established on the 2040 non-carbon policy. Such a goal should be set in the year 2030, which, in turn, provided the way for a non-carbon object, to ensure that this goal is met. On the road to the lack of carbon abstraction, the policy must be based on ideas of fair transformation, making sure that the changes in society do not lead to an inconsistencies to people in general, depending on where they live in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u4	Mr. President. What a joy it is that this situation finally comes to an end! It's been a tough birth, it's ended up a little complicated, and it's taken some tests. But I'd like to mention that there is still a small question about the enterprises that are primarily legal members. I expect it not to be a problem, but I'm referring it to those who have the job of enforcing these laws to try to show a certain smoothness and so on, because it's complicated and no easy way to solve it. But this is a good thing, and I'm glad it's come through.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u5	The vote isn't over yet, let's see.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u6	A respectable president. Iceland has not been able to face the battle with the crown virus, but Iceland, one country, has begun to grow, Iceland, one country, has faced a huge increase in in in inflation and Iceland, one country, the government has been providing a waste-of-the-employer bill with significant and permanent sources for government remuneration. Our common goal is to promote stability. We agree with the government in that. There are only two ways, one to go on the other hand, that way, the government chooses, and the other, international cooperation. The latter is the way we've been speaking to people, and that's the way we believe to be reasonable, and it's to secure business freedom and continue the free flow of capital funds. It is possible if the will is there. [[The president calls.]] We're going to sit down on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u7	President. I would like to start by thanking those whom I did not thank in my speech on the matter, the staff of the Alleglers, mainly a member of the committee who put the matter in good order for us. That was the basis for our combined re-election of the Commission to determine what it was about, to win us through it, and to the countries this case, which is a complete re-election of elections in Iceland, where we can achieve the integrated elections for rural governments, Generals, President and National Affairs in one legislation, create the framework that we can work on as a whole, and deal with the political issues that exist. Each of us agreed that this is an important step to take now, and we have succeeded. At the end, of course, I want to thank the Committee for that job and then the highest. The President of the General Assembly, Stingrim J. Sigfússon, who proposed the bill. Without his initiative in this case, we wouldn't be finishing it today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u8	Mr. President. This is where we take a small, boring snot from the law, what we've called a trans tax, which is unfair remuneration on people who change the registration of species into a national record. It does not reflect the cost of changing this registry, but it holds out in a unfair way to a group of people whom we decided to approve of sexual autonomy to make a special concern for us. I thank the Economic and Business Committee for doing as well in my transition as I do, and I present it in his name here at 3. Um., and thank the Senate for showing by their vote that we remain; we always stand; we all stand with transpeople.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u9	Mr. President. I'm going to start by thanking the Economic and Business Committee for working hard on this. It has been rather complicated and normal for it to take time. There is much conflict, and it simply takes more time to process it. I am also grateful that this is the way we will handle it rather than simply allow it to be part of the committee. I'd also like to mention, in view of the importance of this matter, that we must begin to understand that the pension system as it is installed today cannot last forever. There must be radical and massive changes to make it last and useful to what is intended, and I hope that it will be well received during the coming council. I wish everyone the best in that, and it's gonna be hard.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u10	A respectable president. The bill we're giving here is an important step to increase the transparency of political struggles and to strengthen the foundation of financial relations between parties. This makes it a vital step to increase confidence in political activity and to ensure working conditions and independence from political organizations. I'm very happy that we're here for a vote and I'd like to use this opportunity to thank the good cooperation of presidents and political executives, but also a good job at night. Board of directors and patrols and say:
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u11	A respectable president. I thank you for the work that's been on this bill. I will certainly support that there will be laws. I wanted to come up here to say that I wish we could have gotten together on a set of antiquated propaganda that had some real meaning, to the point that the police had some real tool to cope with anonymous propaganda. As the law says today, the police do not have the authority to investigate who is behind anonymous propaganda. This is certainly a declaration of will, but all the teeth are missing in that law, and I'm sorry. I hope we'll do better next time. Of course, it's a great bill, and it's a good idea, but I would have liked to see us show a little more firm than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u12	Mr. President. I rejoice over the positiveness here and the standing in the hall tonight over this Senate arrangement, where I suggested that the minister of education be committed to the payment of a job fund of professional athletes. We fight athletes at large conventions abroad, but we have been given no support except from some company in a town that has set them in different and uneven positions in the performance of athletes from our neighboring countries. I hope this is going to happen at the highest level. The Minister of Education and Culture when she has completed her work on this and other matters that we will vote on below.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u13	Mr. President. The United States wants to set up a green parish for Iceland, a green-proceding revolution. We believe that in the complex conditions that exist today, it is necessary for the government to step in by design and promote eco-efficiency over the country and to increase the production capacity of the population. Therefore, the Union suggests that the government will act in a ten - team action that aims to increase the number of jobs, to stimulate demand and to support eco-friendly valuables in Iceland. Thus, we can make sure not only that the resistance will become powerful but that it will become sustainable as well. It seems to me that this is on the way to the board of the government, and I encourage it. Of course, we'll take it with force after election in the fall and follow through on this. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u14	A respectable president. Here it is suggested that the meetings of the Synod committees will usually be opened, a proposal, which has already been proposed by the members of the Council. I'd like to propose to the council to consider the proposal further when it comes to the next term. A lot of people in here will be here, too. You see, I think the concern I've heard of members of Congress is being raised in the wrong way about an open committee meeting. This is done elsewhere, there's no trouble. Since committee meetings are open, no one wants to shut them down. There's a reason, that's because they're a good idea. It's not a radical idea, it's not a big step, they're really very self-informed. The drop will break the stone, and I believe that in the future, more and more members of the council will suggest that the meetings of the Allied Committees will normally be opened. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u15	Mr. President. The discussion put the matter to the fore. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir that the release of reference to the government would have been approved by me. In view of the problem. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir has chosen to lie about Pirata again, so I have to make it clear that this is not true. I never agreed to dismiss this case. On the other hand, there was a clear message from the government camp that they did not want them, likely because people are not confident that they will take their stand here at the Hall of Congress. It's convenient to hide behind a deduction proposal rather than to show what you represent. But don't blame me when I haven't approved it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u16	A respectable president. The suggestion here is that Iceland does not become an oil state. That's a suggestion. Is it so crazy in 2021 to take that stand? In fact, I do not think that the voters of the left movement would agree with that. It is the most excellent idea, but for some reason, the left movement does not decide a green offer to support the case but refers it to the government, probably to overdo this case, that something will possibly happen to the next government that no one knows what will happen. But the earlier discussion made it clear today that what the future will be, and it will be the most direct way out of the mouth. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir. I challenge people to look up the discussion for confirmation. The reason for my conclusion that the left movement does not support the case is that it cannot support such a matter with the Independence Party. That's the cost of sacrifice, and that's the lesson I hope the voters learn.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u17	Mr. President. I suppose this is the most recent speech I've had in this chair and probably my last one, at least for now. I'd like to use the occasion to say that it is absolutely key to understanding that the fate of the world is the destiny of Iceland. If we do not take serious action to prevent it, the world is more rapidly approaching an uninhabitable wasteland. For the past few years, I've been incredibly irritated by politicians who seem to be self - assuming with minor steps toward some measure of action that usually have no measurable results or anything behind them. We need to take this matter seriously and point it out, as it were, a very good example of not taking the matter seriously.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u18	A respectable president. I just want to keep it in place for the next election that when the left movement is going to talk about climate change, this will be held in place. The speeches here were held by the wind. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir will be served. Because the greater part chose to be in this and how he tried to make it appear as if he supported the objective of the bill, it will be maintained. I'll talk about it, and hopefully as many as possible. It is the left movement to be ashamed of not being able to support this case. Rather, it is an illusion to refer it to any government, knowingly, and openly accept that they have no idea what will happen to this case, something as simple as that Iceland will not become an oil state. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u19	Mr. President. We here vote for a simple proposal that includes hiding the head of education and culture, the athlete's minister, building a focal point for athletes in cooperation with Iceland's Industry and Olympic Union. The course will be timed along with the prospect of financial support for our successful athletes. I am thrilled to look at the table of words and to see the support of this long - term case that has already been given and that is both kindly and obligated to mention the cause. A senator who first made this suggestion 10 years ago. former senator, Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir. Now it's time for the Generals to agree. There are many people who will rejoice tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u20	A respectable president. I'm just here to say that I'm humble and really grateful that this good thing has come in here. Thank you. The welfare committee for having taken care of it well. I'm just saying, congratulations, senior citizens, sometimes you have friends here at the council, and I see that it's showing up right now. This is an overwhelming and beautiful step that we are taking in behalf of older people, who, as we know, are rapidly increasing, and really need to be taken care of as we are doing now to help them deal with the administrative system and the rule of many people.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u21	A respectable president. We're here on a case for seniors. In a way, right now at the end of Covid, there is at last one older Covid case, by accepting this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u22	A respectable president. Once again, I want to come humble and thank you. The welfare committee for bringing this beautiful thing in here. I have no doubt that we will put our arms around it with all our heart. I just say to my parts as a law - blind individual: Life would have been so much easier for me in many ways if I had received as great a tool as a guide dog is for people in the position of having to live with a disability that blinds and severe visual impairment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u23	Mr. President. I recommend a proposal for a resolution of consent to postpone the General Assembly meeting at Article 1. 23rd par. The constitution. The suggestion is as follows: ▪ The General concludes to agree that meetings will be postponed from June 12, 2021 or later, if necessary. The motion is self-explanatory.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u24	Mr. President. I'm not going to make a recommendation, but I think there's a discussion that needs to take place on how we're going into the election and the Senate session. Now the government has decided that the election will be September 25th. That's not unusual, considering when the election was held last. In effect, the council and the legislation are not meeting for at least four months. Then some time it will take to assemble a government. In fact, therefore, more and less is being carried out by the legislature on the part of the legislator at the time. I just wanted to direct each of us to think about how we're going into an environment, election planning, and the right to take these steps in this way, especially in the mind that we've spent a week in the council, in which the program of the council has been cut off. What does that mean? That means even. that we senators have not been able to ask unaccounted questions to the Commission, to minister. We senators, e.g. Unable to get a discussion of a major cervical case report presented here. We have not been able to have a democratic discussion in the conference hall on these subjects. They're shutting down a democratic discussion here in the conference room four months before the election. I find this to be an unpleasant development, especially since the political parties have not talked about how they want to operate until elections. This is what I pay attention to, but I want to say, in light of tradition and custom, I will support it. I wanted to cast this out in view of the fact that we are going home when the night passes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u25	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying something with a what. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, the daughter of Gunns, is yet to be discussed in the election. It is now a tradition to vote in the fall, with all its consequences, for the implementation of an election in the country, and it is this long period of intermission until the election takes place, unsupervised time on the part of the council. I came up here because I don't agree that we're not discussing the Constitution at the end of the summer, that it's like there's going to be no senators to discuss the important issues, since the council would give the final opportunity to do national agreement. Sadly, it does not seem to work out. I would still like to encourage the government to consider, in view of the nature of our case, with the constitution, how we sailed it on the beach, whether we can at least. Arrangements were made to accept the Constitution proposal so that the nation had something to say about how the Constitution is different from general elections, just by national law. We've had comparable regulations before. We can do this again. This would be the right thing to do so that the next assembly can at least I'm in charge of a national bill. We have the opportunity to respect our national will, at least. to the point of giving the nation the opportunity to determine for themselves the basic foundations, the constitution, we have. This is the key in it, and I want to encourage the Congress world, and especially the government, which controls it - the majority of the points involved, it has been said here - to set the change on schedule. It involves honesty and justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u26	A respectable president. I'm gonna break tradition here and vote against this. I don't feel that we're going to finish this council without taking over the Constitution. I think it's unacceptable, I think it's a sin. I suggest that the decision not to conduct a summer council later be reviewed. I suggest that the Generals listen to the general public and at least add to the more part of the next term that he is running toward it. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u27	President. One is long to be expected. Workin', man. Environment and Transport Committee - I'm going to start with the opportunity to give the Committee special commendation for good work and solidarity in this matter - we've been advised that in this overall review, only when it is time to move forward. We knew that indications would best come from the sector, and we've received them with encouragement. In the group that won the case, before it reached the council, there was a minimum time to settle over the appendix. The committee noted that when you refer to the protective areas of your individual team, there is a danger of a misunderstanding. The Committee's due 1.mg. Twenty-niner. The bill, as well as Annex 1, is carried out in Class B, which is below the threshold in Annex 1, to be reported in case they are located on the reservation, i.e. No matter the size limit. Therefore, it is generally not necessary to report specifically to each category B that the report should be performed regardless of the extent if located in the reservation. Nevertheless, in some of these cases, the Annex 1 of the bill refers to a reservation of protection. In other words, the terms used in these terms state that when carried out on the reservation, they are reported. It might seem that this is the case, and there is no need to reiterate it more than in the individual joint. This is because of special circumstances in order to ensure clarity so that the rule applies in such cases. It was then possible for people to conclude that since they are not specified in the other joints, the rule is not applicable, but it is because it is stated in the headings. At the request of the Commission reviews nine terms: Annex I. It shows that the 1016, specifically pointed out, includes the reporting of land cables regardless of length if they are located in noncontinent reservations. So ground cables on urban reservations are not required. As the chairman of the case, I thank you for the suggestions we have received on these matters. This whole review is on the final meters, and it's good to have these extensions here. I refer to another aspect of the committee and to the adjustment made there. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes specified there.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u28	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a committee program with a bill-change proposal to legalize various tax and tax laws. The case was referred to the Economic and Business Committee after the 2nd. The Commission discussed the matter with consideration to the indication that in the adjustment of the section to 2.g. The bill could have been passed beyond the occasion and whether the criteria might have been for letting the b-joints grow. the bill includes more events than when a person outside the workplace changes parts of the wand companies. The Commission has reviewed matters in consultation with the Ministry and does not believe that the majority of them are responsible for compromising from the wording proposed to the changes made by the greater part of 2. ... without the full assessment of the effects of such changes. In many cases, however, the majority feel that more widely used authority to postpone tax recovery from stocks or stocks derived from exchange may be objective and that the Ministry is encouraged to consider the matter further. The 2nd. on the subject, Andrés Ingi Jónsson proposed a 26 - year - old program. 1.mg. 14th par. Residents, No. 88/1991 on the condition of the license to change names and permission to change the registration of gender according to the sex-friendly legislation, an explosion occurred. The motion was retracted and requested that the committee study with her for the 3rd. The majority have overlooked the proposal, making it their own, though by making it meaningful at the same time as the rest of the bill's terms. So the majority suggest that the bill be agreed with the following change: ◯ At 12. a new letter will be added to a f-joint, as follows: 26. ... willpassout.How long will he be gone? Under this view, in addition to me, Brubbers the Brynjar of Níelsson, President Óli Bjöl Björn Kárason, Bordi of Haraldsdóttir, Jón the Steindór of Valdimarsson, Foe Brynjólfsdóttir Bryjorn, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Smári Mccarthy, and Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u29	V.E.G. President. I recommend a committee list with a reference bill on bill to correct the change of various laws because of increases in minimum pay to the pension fund and regulations on the specified special property. The committee has been very much discussing the matter and has received many comments from various pensions and even from Feminian finance and government insurance agencies, etc. The bill presented in the biographer agreements provides extensive changes in the legal environment of pension funds and other sources. The minimum tax increase should be determined from 12% to 15.5% of the tax. The bill is based on main embassies of a work force set up on March 1, 2017, and it had a link between cohesion and special property. The bill became a significant criticism to the Commission's discussion, including respect and respect. that there had been insufficient consultations with the pension fund and other stakeholders in the agreement, that it was of concern that such extensive changes in the pension fund were provided with such short notice and that by the bill the complexity of the system overlayed by most factors. At the same time, various articles of the bill presented material criticism and were referred to as reports received by the committee. By references to this, the commission suggests that the case will be referred to the government. The committee urges that the bill be addressed to the indications presented in the references to the Committee and that there will be consultations with modalities for change. This work will be prioritized by the Ministry and shall be reassigned to the 152th legislation Council. Underneath my background, Óli Björn Kárason, Jón, Steindór Björk Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjolfólfjordsdóttir, Bordi Haraldsdóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Sigmundur of Gunnlaugsson Gunul, Smári MccarthyIngi and Þórarinn Pétursson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u30	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a committee party with an off-limit proposal for a bill to correct a change in the terms of interest and insurance. The committee has discussed the matter and has brought visitors and some reports. The bill insists that the maximum duration of prices for consumers will be 25 years, although it will continue to be permitted to extend such mortgages longer than 25 years of age to certain conditions. On the other hand, the minimum amount of money guaranteed by consumers will be ten years instead of five. In view of the reports on the subject, a greater proportion suggests that the bill should be referred to the government, where it is viewed in the light of future comments. Under the heading "Truar Ingi Pétursson, " author Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Brassur Níelsson's son, Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjolf's daughter, Brondi Haraldsdóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, and Smári Mccarthy.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u31	President. This bill has been rooted in a work that the political parties have been doing for months, and it has been impervious to the development of their activities, how they can apply themselves to information and become a campaign. It's a good time to tell you that this work came back to us in a common bill that came in here and ended up like a bill right here at the Senate Hall and then came to us. Board of Directors and Control Committee. We met with quite a few visitors and reviewed the reports. Officials in general were pleased with the subject of the bill, which includes important steps to increase confidence in political activity, to ensure working conditions, to the independence of political organizations, and to promote democracy and political transparency. You see, there are a number of issues that lie here, and comments to the matter came mainly from the protection of the Persians. I'd like to take this opportunity to thank you. The chairman of the board and board of directors, Jón Þór Ólafsson, for good cooperation with finding solutions to how we might respond to these comments and then stick to the process that has marked it from the beginning. We had a very good partnership, me and you. At the same time, I thank the entire committee for the way we worked on this case. President. I would like to review those Persian protection comments, for it is very important that we have it all figured out in the process of making personal information about the public. In the 3rd. The bill is suggested for a new article, Article 2. No. 162/2006, including They say that political organizations will be forbidden to use character formats to direct individuals on subjects and advertisements in connection with political struggles, which includes the urge not to use the voting rights. According to a report on the bill, this aims to meet the risk of certain events observed in recent years, especially in community media, in foreign election elections, and is in an attempt to adversely affect the outcome of the election by special processing of personal information. We've all seen this news and read it, Mr. President. According to the Federal Protection Agency, the regulations of the bill alone forbid political organizations to use personality formats to direct subjects and advertisements in connection with political struggles that involve the refusal to use the election. Hence, this law does not prevent political organizations from using personality formats to influence the results of elections by aiming at individuals' subjects and advertisements that encourage them to choose a particular political organization. Illustrating the change in personality format to influence the results of a campaign by directing subjects and advertisements in connection with political struggles that encourage the selection of certain political organizations, without recognising laws on personal protection and the processing of personal information, or encouraging failure to use the voting rights. According to the Committee, this change would reduce a non-pronounced ban requiring that a personal profile is not used in order to interfere with the outcome of the campaign. Besides the requirements for abnormal influences, different interpretations are expected to be extremely difficult to prove such intents. The commission had consulted with the Persian Protection of further implementation of the law and proposed a change to make it clear that the use of personality in a political struggle is compatible with democratic values. It refers to the general reasonable requirement found in the laws on personal protection and the handling of personal information. The Commission wants to confirm that all use of personal formats in political battles must meet the requirements for the role of personal protection and the processing of personal information. It is important that political organizations embrace the technology that social media offer of responsibility and that the use of political organizations on personal information is in line with the protection laws of the government. They should therefore be able to play a positive and good role in sharing information and should be able to promote democratic participation and improve the ability of voters to make decisions on the basis of the correct information. President. Before I finish my discussion of what the committee discussed, I would like to jump right into the adjustment that the committee makes in the spirit of the Persian protection I've been going over. The committee proposes on number 3. b-joints 3. a new proverb will be added, as follows: In other respects, the use of character formats is compatible with democratic values. With the above - mentioned addition, the regulations of the bill would be as follows: ▪ Divorced laws on personal protection and the processing of personal information. In addition, political organizations are forbidden to use personality formats to direct individuals on subject matter and advertisements in connection with a political struggle that includes the urge not to use the voting rights. Second, be careful that the use of character formats is compatible with democratic values. This is the big change I wanted to draw attention to the fact that there was a great deal of work here with a Persian protection to find the right way. Another point in which the committee discussed was mandatory. In the opinion of the Committee, it may be concluded that the identity of the Member States should be adopted. However, at the same time transport and the Ministry is planning to start work on a review of local regulations for localisation. So the committee does not feel that it is proper to suggest a change in the fact that it is now being adopted by an identification party. As for a political team, the bill has a bill for the head of state tax to be assigned to operate a special political team and that it will be published to the public on Iceland's board of directors and specific information. According to the taxpayer's comments, the taxpayer will make it clear that the registration information of a political organisation will be published on the national taxpayer's web in the same way as for other members than on the wider publication of the European Commission's website where data will also be published. Information transmitted from the tax to the Commission requires certain technical measures and analysis of the technical projects involved in the analysis and cost of this. The report on the bill shows that it is clear that this project will inevitably lead to an increased budget for the head of the tax. According to the Commission it is mainly a requirement to have written minimum information on the activities of political organizations, such as those involved in the organisation and its internal organization, including the specific unit of activity within them and their roles. We believe that this is in the report unless we agree with the tax views presented in the subheading that political organizations registered in a corporate registry and now meet the criteria for registration into a political body will be allowed to change their registration in the manner of moving them from a corporate file to a political body. The report of the IRS points to the fact that the bill does not discuss the charges of political organizations leading to the loss of their registration of political parties. It is necessary that the bill deal with the charges and that the decision to unregistered be made should be made in more detail. The committee considers the tax tip to be for granted and suggests a change in the subject. In addition, the Committee suggests two adjustments to the comments of Iceland's National and Justice Department. First, there is a change in the word "future " to the term" nuclear access. " Second, it is the request of the Ministry of Justice to have Article 3. Can't get any benefit until January 1, 2022. According to this, Mr. President, the bill will be agreed with the changes made in the committee opinion, and I have, to some extent, traced here. I have especially called attention to the change the committee makes in consultation with Perone Protection to meet their views but, of course, all the others too. Hv. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson was absent from the case, but his signature is considered to be in accordance with the General Assembly Act. Hv. paritaprevir This is acceptable to Þorbjörg Gunnlaugsdóttir Gunugadótttir. In addition to what it says here, that's what it's all about. The members of Jón Þór Ólafsson, Linika Anna Sævarsdóttir, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Ingi In Jónsson, Braunr Níelsson, Óli Björn Kárason, Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, and Pétursson Ingi. Thus, the solidarity that has followed the case from the beginning in political parties has continued in this committee and into the 2nd. We suggest that the case be agreed, so we refer to the 3rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u32	A respectable president. Thank you very much. President for canceling my move between election tickets. I hereby recommend a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee on this matter. This resolution proposal is based on an almost seven-year-old standard report on a simple rule of action provided by the Advisor Committee on Public Control in September 2014. Since then, much change has taken place, and governments have been organized into a simple system of things. That work isn't finished. In view of the above mentioned, the more part is advising the proposal. Under the order of the centuries. The men of the assembly: Óli Björn the son of Kárason, chairman of the committee, Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, Brubber the Brynjar of Níelsson, Bordi, the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, and Ingi the son of Pétursson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u33	The president asks why. The senator was well-respected by the misjudgment of the people and the ultimatum. He was given vague information on the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u34	Mr. President. I'm not speaking for the first time, in fact, fighting for now for years to be put on simple regulations, to reduce the booth in Iceland. I realize that this is a Senate case, and as a result, it may not be likely to have a sound foundation for the majority of it. But I have to know that I think of more of a committee than anything else. The economic and business committee is pathetic. It claims that this was an old case for official surveillance regulations submitted in September 2014. It is true that this is based on a case published in 2014, in fact on more cases due that same year. But having waited a long time for this can hardly be a reason to reject the matter now, in view of the fact that it has not really happened - nothing happens - that can happen since then. In 2013 a new government that resolved to cope with the booth began to reduce the burden of order and simplify lives and businesses. A great campaign was made to prepare, which yielded itself, including the following: in a paper laying down the lines and making decisions on things such as that when there was one burdensome rule, or one paper or rule that would weigh companies, two would go out and the lines determine how government of public institutions would follow. It was also a decision to stop spontaneously raising expenses for the public and the company. A number of other factors could be noted that this was a plan on how we would finally contain the stall. It all started well while the government it worked. But after she left, very little has been done. In 2016 the government and then again in 2017, and the present government has produced several members of Congress that have been proposed to reduce the booth, to reduce the order. However, when it comes to researching these matters, the first thing is to take out the trash; to throw away regulations that were no longer working, they were no longer in use, which in itself is fine, Mr. President. But it takes so much more to succeed in the battle against growth, which has never been greater than today. That is why I say it is pathetic that more part of the Economic and Business Committee should be suggested that this proposal be made, that this case will be rejected on the grounds that it is based on work that started in 2014. Rather, there should be evidence that this would be urgent, long - term. But no, this system management is fine in the current system and recognizes that this has waited for this for a long reason to continue to allow this important project to wait. Therefore, Mr. President, I say that this project had become urgent in 2013. That's even more urgent now. The problem has grown. However, there is an opportunity to address the problem, a possibility based on the work of the management system, experts outside the operating system, a counselor who worked out the problem. But the government's will is clear: it should be hidden, buried, and continued in the same direction. The government that we hear in the news today is going to continue after this election period has made its will clear in several matters involving highland parks and current booths: Go on, stand on. But in elections, people have the opportunity to choose another route, to have the opportunity to finish the work that has now been waiting for seven years.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u35	Mr. President. I hereby recommend my opinion of part of the past. A professional network on bill to correct a change in food law The committee has discussed the matter and received excellent comments, as considered. The objective of the bill is to improve the exchange of information to consumers on antibiotic use in the production of food. It is suggested that companies with a small supply of food will be protected by the label that consumers have access to information about food origins and the average use of antibiotics for the production of food in the country. In this case a food management agency will provide yearly guidance on the exchange of information on nationalities and antibiotic use in the production of food. The bill is now submitted for the third time. Mr. President. The smaller portion considers positive to increase the awareness of consumers about the use of antibacterial agents during food production and antibiotic resistance and suggests that the bill will be agreed as unchanged. Under countless printed page. Councilmen: Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Izzekisa, Mn. Hrafn Gunnarsson, in advance, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, and Sigurður Jónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u36	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a committee party with a counter-entries proposal for recognising the salary fund of Icelandic athletes from the General and Education Committee. The report has been published on the subject and received reviews from the Hrafnhildur's daughter, Iceland's Lúthersdóttir and Olympic Union, Iceland's Knat's National Association, Iceland's Sun Munity, and Iceland's Young People Association. The proposal involves preparing for an education and cultural minister and providing a bill for the payment of Icelandic sports achievements in consultation with financial and economic ministers. The speakers agree with the proposal and suggest that it be accepted. At the same time as this proposal has been made by the Committee on a proposal for Congress resolution on the formative policy for athletes, dr. It's 81th in the current council. The situation is basically comparable, so the committee considers it to be a cause for unity within the Ministry. So the Commission suggests that this proposal will be referred to the government for further implementation along with the above policy. In the process of such a course, it is important to include will be looked forward to the success of athletes and their financial security. In view of the above, the Committee suggests that the Convention's Reunion Directive will be referred to the government for further implementation along with the molding of a panorama of sports achievements. Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir and Þorsteinn Sæmundsson were away at the hearing, but they signed this opinion according to a warrant at 2 mg. Twenty-nine. Legalized by the General Assembly, No. 55/1191 Under the heading "Birth of the Ages " Councilmen Páll Gunnlaugsdóttir, Guðmundur Þorbjörg Thorsson, Birgir Ármannsson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Guinsdotir, Þorsteinn Sæmundsson Örnu Öríldur Sigríður Gunundótir, Þólundsson, and Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Vótir. A respectable president. Today, we have observed the long and painful death of the highland park that may not have received quite a different fate from this case. I believe, however, that this case is not dead and buried. Rather, it is the beginning of the development of this most important and important interest matter of Icelandic sports and Iceland's achievements and sports movements. It is very important to increase the rights and safety of athletes, and we do so with such employees. We know that after his career in sports, many successful athletes survive with enormous debt on their backs, and that is totally unprovable. High - quality athletes do not have a pension right or a trade union union union union or unemploymental benefits or access to medical or staff funds or rights for maternity. That is why such a fund is a matter of fairness and justice for these people who are important to them. I have hoped that this case will continue to exist between members of the council and that we will see it through the next council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u37	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Andri Thorsson for introducing to the Committee the greater part of the General and Education Committee. I'm glad that the committee decided to agree with the Parliament's decision to hide a minister of education and culture from some sort of proposal to make a payment for successful athletes because it was, of course, a council proposal that I made earlier at this council. The purpose of such funds is to increase the financial security of athletes and increase their ability to devote themselves to sports in the leading of large conventions. Many people are now sitting watching EM playing soccer. There are diverse groups, some who have a job by playing soccer and getting paid for it, others who, for example, are paid for it. Selected national groups are not paid to play soccer every day. All of them attend large conventions, including team sports or other sports, and have amazingly different circumstances, i.e. Those who are professionals and who are paid for it, and those who are successful athletes, who are not paid for it, but who are still on behalf of our people or other nations, and all of us want them to succeed. The reviewers and members of the Committee that discussed these matters were very in favor. High - quality athletes have been calling for similar support and have been identified in our neighboring countries, where prominent athletes receive support. We can watch types in this country, e.g. A role model in a master of chess or model for artists who have been very supportive of them. It's our pride, both within the country and outside the country, great role models, and that's why we should back them up when they need it. High - quality athletes have the option of applying for grants from the ISI wealth, which is, however, largely in support of special relationships. At times, the cost of transportation, the possible cost of transportation, or the cost of a stay may be far away. It is this inconsistencies that exist between us as athletes and such successful athletes abroad - these are very incontestable, especially when it comes to large conventions abroad. The position, rights, and security that would result in the installing of the Icelandic record fund were covered by a member of the committee's opinion. I'm just glad this case is running out here today and going to the highest level. The Minister of Education and Culture to back up.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u38	Mr. President. I bring here an understatement with a description proposal for a green-proven revolution from a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee. The question has been discussed, and has been visited by Benedikt Stefánsson and Anna Margrét Kornelíusdóttir of Green Energy, a cooperation field of energy exchange, Sveinn Runólfsson and Einar Bárðarson from the Votland Fund and Sverrir Jan Norðfjörður and Einar Sinra Einar Snorri Einarsson from the Landsnet Corporation. The news came from Green Energy, a cooperation site on energy exchange, Landsnet hf., Land Protection, Young Environment and Wetland Fund. The Parliamentary arrangement suggests that the government will be assigned to implement ten teams with the aim of increasing jobs, promoting demand and supporting climate-friendly valuables in Iceland. In view of the greater part, the proposal suggests some important aspects of future employment policy and the green economy. However, the issue of the matter is much, and there are steps that involve considerable financial contributions on the part of the government that have not been expected in financial or financial contributions. The majority suggest that the case be referred to the government. Under the name of the Lord. The men of the assembly, Óli Björn the son of Kárason, chairman of the committee, Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, Braun the Brynjar of Níelsson, Brutish the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, and Þórarinn the son of Pétursson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u39	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a committee party with a change in proposal for the interpretation of a green-mortem revolution. It is put forward with the aim of raising jobs, promoting demand and supporting climate-friendly valuables in Iceland. The proposal is also submitted to Iceland's global climatic commitments in disasters and in the light of economic contractions, history of mass inefficiency, and the production system for the Korean virus epidemic. The green revolution, in fact, involves the green revolution. proposed to create green investment reserves with 5 billion dollars. in stocks supporting climate-friendly job structure and the green high-tech industry. Energy exchanges will be accelerated, the action will be on the support of vegetable production and the structure of industrial parks, the use of massive forestry and public transport all over the country. With this, two birds could be hit in one blow: rising demand and employment while creating a greener and more sustainable community in Iceland and paying the way to more ambitious climate targets in the coming years. The smaller part of it. The Economic and Business Committee believes that the market will never solve this major problem that we face that is global warming and will become our biggest project, our greatest project, our generation as well as our future generation. In order to get down a stronger foot, the cooperation between the government and the private sector and especially the political leadership will be needed to lead the transformation. The committee's opinion of the green investment fund and its establishment and ambitious climate goals is further developed. It's expected to be the highest. The Environment and Resource Minister has a preemptive to develop a new climate action programme that accounts for a 60% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, compared to 2005. Then there is the growth of public transport, one of the major factors in promoting the goals of noncarbonization. This is then the rate of energy exchange, but a lower proportion of the committee feels that it is urgent to engage in targeted measures to speed up the energy exchange of air and uterus. Shorter is the construction of high - power stations all over the country, with the view that the new registration of fuel and diesel trucks will have ceased since the year 2025, and it is more ambitious than considering the year 2030 as it is currently being done. This is followed by a further review of the macroevolution and development of industry. The smaller part considers it important to expand the research and development of the region in the area of production and production of renewable fuels. Also, it is essential for a green industry revolution to create an environment useful to a variety of sectoral and valuables. A strategy has to be set for the structure of industry in Iceland, where the value of clean energy is climaxed, such as for building up the food industry, biofuel production, biotechnology, and gardening. It is important that the principle be transparent and clear. In the memory of the section, it is clear that improvement in this area will help economic candidates develop new environmental instruments and suggest that the case will be agreed with the following change on a date: Instead of the date 1 May 2021 in the motion if the date is January 1, 2022. Under the heading, the piece of literature that appears here. Councilmen Jón Valdimarsson Valmardsson and Smári Mccarthy.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u40	President. I would like to recommend a committee program on bill to legalize the law of the General Assembly, No. 55/1991 (date of regular General Assembly 2021) from the greater part of the management and monitoring committee. The committee suggests that the matter will be agreed with. Óli Björn Kárason, Brassur Níelsson, Þórstein Sæmundsson and Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé were absent at the hearing, but Sir Óttarsson Odjörn son of Proppé writes under authority in 2 mgr. Twenty-nine. Act of the General Assembly. Under the authority of Jón Þór Ólafsson, chairman of the case, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir Ingi Pétursson, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, and Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u41	President. I would like to recommend a committee program on bill to legalize the law of the General Assembly, No. 55/1191, open committee meetings, smaller sections of the management and monitoring committee. It has been discussed and contacted at Atli Þór Fanndalur, of the Iceland Department of Transparancy International. The committee received a review of the case from the National Department of Transparancy International. The bill suggests that the principle of meeting members will be held silently and sent to a Web site, but it is permitted to hold closed committee meetings under special circumstances. General: In accordance with current WHO legislation, regular committees are usually shut down the media and the public, but they can hold open meetings on specific grounds. The bill of this includes the fact that a meeting with a speaker will be held in silence and sent out on a web. Meetings will be held only at the doors when there are objective reasons for this. The minority feels that it is important to have a conditional authority to maintain a closed meeting and that the sources listed in the bill are sufficient to make it possible to close meetings when appropriate. Public right: The public has the right to inform about the way the authorities make decisions and the viewpoint behind decisions they make about him. The legislation process is clear, in view of the public availability of bills before discussing them, the discussions in the Senate Hall streaming on the Internet for real time, and later in writing, the reviews commonly coming through committees are published in public, as well as the committees' opinions and votes of members of the Parliament. Thus, the public, the media, and other stakeholders can understand much of the work of the legislatator. The exception of this is a meeting of committees, which constantly appear before closed doors, as well as that which is generally forbidden to quote words that fall on such meetings. The bill is primarily aimed at strengthening the transparency of Congress work and ensuring public information rights on the activities of the General Assembly. Increased access to information on the treatment of Congress promotes the ability of the media to discuss different viewpoints associated with them, strengthens the hold that the common people provide rulers, and enables citizens to gain full understanding on the basis of differences in viewpoints that may be presented in the management of committees. Substitutions and discussions: Already the reviews received by committees from external stakeholders are officially published on the Generalist Web site, describing the views that the members would like to bring to the attention of members of the Parliament in the treatment of Congress. Following the reception of comments, guests are often invited to a council meeting, where the viewpoints presented in the reviews are thoroughly explained and frequently. It also allows the committees to ask questions and to adjust different viewpoints to the visitors'viewpoints. Thus, a discussion in committees is by far the most normal continuation of a subject on views that are already published in public. The minority feels that there is a rapid beginning to the fact that the comments received are officially available but that it is discussed in closed committee meetings. Thus, the public and the media miss out on detailed explanations, answers to questions that arise, and reasoning that reveal the point of the subject. Suggestion of payment: In the review of the National Institute for Transparancy International to the Committee, there will be some of the results. ............................................................................................ The board's approval, in the opinion of the department, would be in line to increase confidence in the community. The lesser part agrees with these views. In the above, the smaller part contributes to the continuation of the bill. Under the opinion of Jón Þór Ólafsson, the chairman of the case, Andrés Ingi Jónsson and Guðmundur Andri Thorsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u42	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you. I must say, the head of the administration and monitoring committee for a well-predicted and well-written committee opinion. I have to say that I've once tried to be a former senator, had one year of it between the election season and the reality of a nerd that likes to see in the documents here - and will probably miss if I haven't had enough time to close the next elections - I also know and have found in my own skin how it really wants to look at some matter at the World Parliament, get interested in something that is unchanged in a town, though by conference experience, and have access to more or less all that the Allied Congress do; However, there is a blind spot in the treatment of the Generals, and this is unnecessary, the committee itself. As I have mentioned earlier, committees are not particularly suitable places for doing some dark act or for some form of corruption or harmony. That would be extremely unpopular on the part of those who would be interested in such things. Committee meetings are primarily for information. There are questions, and answers are presented. These questions and answers are helpful, not only for members of Congress who are being found but also for the media and for the public. This isn't a radical idea, it's not a big step. It should be easy for us to propose it here and accept that the meetings of the World Council members will normally be opened. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u43	Mr. President. I hereby recommend the Committee's list of off-limits to legalize the search, research and processing of carbohydrates, the prohibition on the search and processing of fossil fuels. The aforementioned opinion comes from a major part of the job committee. The Commission has discussed the matter and received three comments from Land Protection, the National Protection Agency of Iceland and the Young Environment. The bill suggests that the search, research, and processing of carbohydrates will be removed, No. 13/2001, and by that means fossil fuels will be banned on land. provisional regulations suggest that a minister make proposals for changes in other laws needed after the agreed bill. The majority feel that if there is a desire to ban the search and processing of fossil fuels, the situation will be reviewed as a whole and a bill will be submitted, which includes all necessary changes to the law. In the absence of fossil fuels'search or development, there is room to win the case further. The greater part of the claim, however, is the importance of Iceland's targeted action in the battle against climate change, in line with the ambitious government contract and the aim of a non-carbonization of Iceland to no later than 2040. According to the above, the greater part suggests that the case will be referred to the government for further consideration and implementation. Under this, the writer of the journal, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, and why. Councilmen Ásmundur Friðriksson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristoffsdóttir, Haraldur Benediktsson, and Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u44	Mr. President. I appreciate the story. I would like to ask a few questions in terms of the committee's opinion in order to get a clear view of what is meant. It says:... if there is any desire to put the ban on fossil fuels search and processing. Is it not clear that the more part is willing? Isn't it true that the government's will is to ban oil search in 2021? And because the statement just follows that the matter is being considered and developed, I miss that it is simply told what should come out of that view and process. So I would like to ask, " Is the fact that more parts expect to be eliminated from this work to be forbidden in search of oil? ' These are two questions: Is it not clear that the more part wants to ban oil search with this committee, and is it not clear that such a prohibition should come out of the work that will be started in the Ministry next?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u45	Mr. President. Like what? A senator knows this matter, which he is a 1st traveller, that, one of the agreements at the end of the council, will be handled. There is a agreement that this case will be referred to the government by description and by no means. A senator has agreed to this himself. Hv. A senator also knows as an ex - companion in the left movement an ◯ green supply that the left movement, if available, would want to stop oil search. We know that there is no search or license for such a search. Hv. A senator may well know the course of the left movement, but he may not have to make an offer. However, when such matters are referred to a government, the conclusions can never be made ahead of us and likely a new government will arrive in the fall. But if the left green is in this case, it becomes clear that it should not be allowed for an oil hunt.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u46	Mr. President. Yes, there's an agreement that this case will be referred to by the government, or it's an agreement that this case will be resolved, but more part decides to pass it off by deportation. But this blessed consideration is a legal solution. This blessing of the committee is to give the government some guidance on what is going on. And, yes, I know what's on the left green list, but of the five members of this committee party, there's only one of that movement. The answers are what we're going to do. The senator did not indicate that it was the will of the government, the will of the government, the more part of this committee's involvement, the banning of oil search, or the request that the government operates in order to ban oil search from this source. I would like to ask the senator if it is my correct understanding that in this deduction, there is no direction for the government that out of this process there is a prohibition on oil search.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u47	Mr. President. Regarding this reference, it is stated that the majority feel that the greater success is in considering the whole matter, pointing to the lack of a search or permission provided by the Icelandic government today. I can't predetermine any conclusions. No one can. But there is a desire on the part of this government, or the greater part, that is to be considered. I reiterate that the will of the left green is clear in that matter, but no one can predetermine matters in a general way in relation to other things and what laws would have to be changed and things like them. Thus, it tells itself that this committee view of a deliberation proposal does not work out with long, thorough guidance on that subject. This is one of the problems that we deal with Congress agreements, and I don't have time to explain it for a long, long explanation, as I think it will be. A senator did not expect it to be taken into account in this matter to which he is the 1st transporter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u48	A respectable president. I think I just need to follow up on questions. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's son because I'm no closer to a decision. Magnúsdóttir It's about having a head in the mind of someone who can't find oil. Hv. A senator says it's part of his class's policy to ban oil search but no one knows what happens when we're referring it to the government. All right. Why would he do that? A senator, her company, the governor's part, not only accepted this bill that lies here, which would ban oil search? Why was the administrative part completely forbidden to do so? Why does the left movement agree to a green offer that we bring this matter to the government with uncertainty? We don't know what's gonna happen next. We have no idea. Whatever may be done with such expressions in view, it is stated that there is no wish to forbid the search and processing of fossil fuels. Hv. A senator also tries to say that there is trouble. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson must want the case to be referred to by the government because the greater part decided that this was the only way to agree to set the matter up at the council. Hv. A senator must be aware of the opinion of a member of his team. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's son, since we protest the very nature of this case. We cannot be made aware that we agree to dismiss a prohibition against oil search into the ocean. How do you get a what? A senator out of it? [[The president calls.]] Why would he do that? A senator not merely agreed to a prohibition on oil search?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u49	V.E.G. President. You don't get everything you want and you don't want everything you get. This is also true at council contracts, and the Piratars must accept it as the rest of the council. I think I've made a pretty clear answer. I can't answer for all independents or all the candidates and, of course, refer primarily to the left green policy in this matter. This was part of a closed council agreement. This leads to the conclusion that Pirantar must submit, as did others.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u50	A respectable president. Hv. There's a senator here on a deportation proposal on this case, and I'm asking him why. A senator's position and why she could not stand up for her convictions. Why is a name anyway? A senator at this committee party with a contraband proposal? I must be able to ask that question, although, of course, I have to accept what more part of this hall will come to a conclusion. I'm fully aware of how the Congress works and votes here, etc. Of course, it is hoped that the conscience will grab the left green and vote with its own convictions and they will ban oil search in Iceland. We simply ask why. Congress officials are expected to work against their declared targets and against their declared policies. Here is a very simple change to be suggested. Why is the left movement ▪ green supply not acceptable to forbidden oil search? Why is the ban being thrown into the sea? Why is there no such restriction as the prohibition against the search for oil? And finally, how does it fit in with not banning oil search in Iceland's government's goals on non-carbonizing Iceland as late as the year 2040? How are these two things going together? A license for oil hunt and non-carbon parts of Iceland? What kind of bullshit is this, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u51	Mr. President. I can say for the last time. Senator: What kind of bullshit is this? Is Pirás reporting that there's some provision for oil in this country?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u52	Why don't you stop her?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u53	Is that something going on? Is that true? [[Up front.]] No, it doesn't exist, and then it can hardly be what is going on today, for it does not exist and is not intending to do so. [[Up front.]] This case is so growing that it is part of Congress contracts that it will be referred to the government. Wants the left green, so for the fourth time, I'll tell you, there's no oil search in Iceland. That's perfectly clear. Then it becomes clear which categories will be involved in the next government, and they will discuss the matter, and hopefully they will wisely forbid the work to the future and look for any oil or gas or anything. But this isn't something I think we need to worry about. We should rather worry about something else in our community.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u54	A respectable president. I'm here recommending my work committee's involvement in the case of which. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, who is involved in canceling the search, research and processing of carbohydrates, in other words, banning the search and processing of fossil fuels in Iceland. I'd like to start by wondering about a particular world scene where Saudi Arabia is an oil country, where Norway is an oil country, unless the Norwegians say to the world that their oil practices are somehow better than others, in some way better for nature, where the Faeroe Islands are oil states, which, of course, are somehow better than that some other country is oil land, and Iceland is a state of oil. So let us consider how it sounds to listen in Iceland to preach to other nations the message of combating climate change. A respectable president. It's a makeup picture. The idea of making Iceland a state of oil should look ridiculous. The problem is, she's not quite that. There are only too many people yet who believe that it may in some way be better that we are an oil - rich kingdom than any other nation. The views always surface when people see how much money they can profit from just polluting a little. These views exist in Iceland just as they do in the Faeroe Islands and Norway. It's not the remotest or remotest nation. Then, to the subject of the opinion. I would like to first point out that the World Energy Organization recently published a report showing that all fossil fuels investments will be withdrawn if the aim is to prevent irreversible damage to the earth. Let's be clear. The situation in Iceland is that this is not a search at the moment, not being used by these laws, and it's good. But that is also why it is totally harmless for all stakeholders in Iceland to take these laws off now. Then I have to go over to a rather critical argument of the greater part, using the same argument to conclude that it is not important to disqualify these laws, a respectable president. Because no search has begun here yet, we can take these laws away now without any change, without any interest, without some improvement, or some other way in which the State would have to live, or at least make the matter more complex. This can happen because the law is still in effect. Then some stakeholder may decide to start searching for oil, and they may have some demands on how the authorities respond to queries and applications. Of course, this is a permissible operation, but the law is still there. If the government's institutions and the European Commission are not to use privatities but laws, they must assume that agents here would be interested in seeking and winning oil, or fossil fuels, would absolutely have the requirement that government workers do their jobs and accept applications on the basis of the law. That alone is crazy enough, a respectable president, far-realed enough, so we should unite in removing these laws in the light of the facts I mentioned earlier. The evidence that this activity is not in progress today is evidence that it is now being canceled before it becomes more complicated. I'll allow me to use the same argument as most of it, unless the result is the opposite of what the greater part finds out. It is unclear what a person's rights would be to begin processing or searching for fossil fuels, finding them, and going to win it if a lawgiver began to try to defuse the law and prevent the processing. That would be more complicated already. That's why we have to do this as soon as possible, with left-left green lead, Rafney Magnúsdóttir The case is directed to the government, a government they don't know who will. Maybe they'll assume they'll be the same government, the left government, the green, the independent party and the forward, and what then? So they're going to disqualify these laws from the potential independence party and forward? Is it? Why not now? It's logic, a respectable president. I'll see why it's later. It's like it was very clear to me when I heard it. Councilmen at ease. The head of the trade board earlier is not, in effect, to ensure that these laws are removed by referring the case to the government, and this was repeatedly shown in case. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir. She said that when cases are sent to the government, the results could not be made. That's right, a respectable president, and that's my criticism. She said that there was nothing in advance that she could say about any conclusion, no one could. That's right, a respectable president. This includes my criticism. Hv. A senator also spoke word for word, with permission of the president: ▪ But that's what it's willing to do on account of that government or the more part that is here signing that this case will be reviewed. Where's the green part in the left green now? The matter can be considered. It was on a committee to be viewed. There are the committees, and this is not a complicated issue either. It's not hard to look at it, we could have discussed it, such as once, maybe, but it was too much for this whole term in this government. Hv. A senator also said that it could not answer for all the independents or all the candidates, and that is also true, and that includes my criticism. Hv. A senator also said that what classes will be in the next government will be revealed, and they will discuss this matter, and that is true, and that includes my criticism. The majority, however, seem to try to cover the fact that this case is not being continued with any certainty that the aims of removing these laws will be achieved by referring to the government's treaties, which stipulate all kinds of good things. In fact, I'm here going to read a word from a committee study of more part, by permission of the President, about the importance of Iceland's taking action in the fight against climate change, in accordance with the government's ambitious government contract and the purpose of Iceland's non-carbon activities no later than 2040. A respectable president. It is as if dancing is particularly around the point of removing laws allowing the search and processing of oil in Iceland. It may be that if you look up a designated government covenant, there is simply nothing there to eliminate these laws. Maybe you missed it, and everything's fine. But this bill can be approved. It's the answer to all of this, a respectable president, all this criticism, all these problems, all of this confusion, to say yes to the bill that members of the left movement, ◯ green supply of all honors should be able to enjoy. But that is not so, and the question must be asked, Why not? As I mentioned earlier, this case was not taken up on a committee. I had asked about it, and the answer was then, despite all that has been spoken of among the council classes during this term, that there would now be a need to wait for something to come out of a regular assembly house. So I criticized and criticized it again. Then comes the Senate House, the contracts. Is it a matter of material research on a committee? No. Is it a professional committee that is assigned to discuss the subject? No, a respectable president, it is negotiated as to what the left movement can tolerate by its own votes. The spring-time movement has had to put up with it during this terms when she claims to advocate criminal possession and votes against it, saying she's going to put up with it, and she's gonna get it through and screw it up, when she's going to change the constitution and screw up the whole way through it, I'm not even going to go through it all. Now she did not want to vote on this matter materially. Rather, she referred it to a government, a government that she does not know who will be. Why? It's because it can't vote with the case because it would be the victory of someone other than her and it can't vote against it because it would be revealed again the cost of being a member of the government by the Independence Party. This is the question we should ask ourselves here tonight when we vote on whether to dismiss this matter from a government that will do something about it in the future. Here I have gone beyond the exact content of the minority opinion, not much, but underneath the writing of the man standing here, Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, and whisk. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir and no one else on the pro board. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u55	A respectable president. I'm here because of the joy of getting to swaddling and reviewing the Commission's opinions and education committees with a responsoring proposal for the interpretation of a pan-European focalal policy for athletes. The case was presented by Friðriksson, the son of Fridrik, the first of this matter - the first transporter. The subject has been discussed before the board of directors and received reviews. From the United States and the Olympics, but also Iceland's Knatt's National Association, U.S.A., U.S.A., and Lúthersdóttir Hrafnhildur. In principle, the proposal means that a minister of education and culture will be assigned to shape a whole range of sports achievements policy. Along with this proposal, the Committee discussed a proposal for a synopsis on the pay fund of Icelandic athletes, as per 116th case during the current council. A reference was made to the importance of supporting athletes, and it was a pleasure. It was noted that it was important that further policy measures be made in line with the emphasis given by the sports movement at the Isthmus Council of ISI. At the same time, the government's sports policy from May 2019, which involves a great deal of cooperation and consultation within the sport movement. It was then a time for government attention to local sports activities. The Commission agrees with these views, and it also points to the Ministry to address the above - mentioned Parliamentary Residence Directive for the payment of the policy process being proposed here. The committee suggests that the Council's Syllabic proposal will be accepted physically unchanged, but with the following change in the date: Instead of the date ◯1. June 2, 2021 verses 1.J., 2022. It's fun to say that, under this opinion, everyone writes to the committee. That's, plus the layman, huh? Councilmen Páll Magnússon, chairman of the Committee, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir Gunnisdótttir, Birgir the Ármannsson, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Árnadóttir Örjörður Sæmundsson, and Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Ævarsdotir.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u56	Mr. President. I'm very happy to come here, following my cousin, why. paritaprevir The Þorbjörg of Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir, who on behalf of the General and Education Committee, offered an opinion that suggests my interpretation of the ethic of the formative policy of athletes will be adopted in the conference hall below. I am very grateful and happy, and I want to start this brief talk that I have thought to do for this occasion, so that I should be only on my personal notes. It is now that sports have played a major role in my life. I've been in sports for over 20 years, I think I've been in sports directors, advice, committees, job counseling, commissioning, I've been involved in committee work, I've been a sports reporter, and, like, very many natural people, I've been a parent of sports children who are involved in their sports activities and who are connected to their work as sports partners. Most important, I have had the past few years as an observer of sports events. Sports have thus played a truly important role in my life. Something similar to what I moved for the second time in the winter was first moved from such a wind. A senator, Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir, who proposed the first motion in the fall of 2012 that a holistic goal for athletes would be developed. The case did not succeed, nor has it been done within the past ten years. I think it's the fourth time for a case of this kind, and I'm really happy to see that it doesn't have to be made up again. The situation is that achievements have given great place among the people of the country. Of course, our successful athletes are an excellent foreign culture and give us many joyful moments here at home. At the same time, all of us are increasingly aware of the importance of young people having good role models in this regard. That's important in both directions because it's a fast from the grass root, from the powerful childhood and youth we have, that our wonderful achievements rise. This is very important for young people, more important now than ever before. When we have data in front of us that highlight the number of Icelandic children who are not able to exercise enough, when we know that life - style related diseases are one of the major challenges facing them by the health system, this is important. The movement affects not only the physical performance of an individual but also the mental development, the development of the brain. Many things have been done on the part of the public to meet this knowledge, the importance that we know to be found in the sports movement. Many special relationships have been made in the sports movement, enabling them to carry out national teams and to participate in international work as representatives of Iceland. But there has been a lack. During the past decade, Icelandic athletes have regularly called attention to their poor economic and rights status. About One and a half years ago, in December 2019, a group of athletes signed a petition to the Ministry of Education and Culture, the gymnasium and the rest of the case, which was a challenge to work on the pay and rights of the Icelandic record. The declaration of the group included the following: to support the success of iSI's achievement fund is more than not the only income of successful athletes to finance competitive and exercise outings. They were not defined as paying which leads to the failure of these successful athletes to earn their rights during the process, thus supplying much with debt on their backs and rights after the process, without the pension rights, the trade union membership, unemployment rights, access to medical and staff funds, or the rights to maternity, to name something. Iceland's Sports and Olympic Union has developed its achievement policies, setting up temporary and targeted plans for performance at large conventions and to ensure long-term efficiency of the goals of racing and strengthening its own ability and ability to achieve long-term achievement goals. Many athletes in cooperation with rural society have done the same. I hope now it's time to agree or at least conducted here under votes in the Hall of Congress a suggestion that there will be a minister who will be against such a comprehensive policy and that policy will include both professional and financial strength, this cannot be separated, and, in my opinion, the policy is above. Based on the focal point and follow-up, there are some factors that will be formed. Work on going through financial affairs so that policy will be timed. The proposal is followed by an opinion by the fact that time goes by very fast, and the proposal as presented suggests that the policy will take effect on June 1 of this year, while the adjustment proposal assumes that a timed policy will be ready for June 2022. This is a very good and important thing. It will ensure the safety of our athlete's achievements when policy is made and sent, during work, and if and when the case will be approved tonight, a clear message to this group, our athlete's achievement, and those who are headed there, that we are going to do our best to make the best of their lives so that their future may not be guaranteed, but at least making sure they are not left behind. In particular, I would like to mention here at last that with this suggestion there has been discussed tonight on the proposal for the interpretation of the Icelandic enterprise's pay fund, and I'm going to describe my joy with it. So here in our opinion, it is directed to the Ministry that the motion should be considered, i.e. for the pay fund of athlete's achievements, in the policy enterprise that this proposal involves, very normal, and I have full faith that this integration will shorten the work process and will make it even stronger. Well, thank you, finally. The General and Education Committee is a great deal for work, for positive committee opinions, and look forward to the payment later tonight or night.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u57	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a committee party with a hearing of a change in proposal for action against the elderly. It's the Philly People's Conference. Early language was Sæland Gaand, and behind this, the party of the people stands all the time. The committee discussed the matter and was contacted by Berglind Eyjólfsdóttir, a body of elders in Reykjavík, Þórunn Sveinbjörnsdóttir, from the National Association of the Old Citizens, María Fjóla, and Eybjörg Hauksdóttir, from the National Association of Social Services. The committee received a review from the New York City body of elders. At previous conventions, the Committee received information from the National Institutes of Health, the Association for Health Services, the New York City body of elders, the partner of older citizens, the partner of the senior citizens in Reykjavík and the National Association of older citizens and Reykjavíkurburg. The suggestion involves the establishment of a special office that cares for the interest of older people. The committee noted that almost every day older people have to deal with the public, whether in connection with their financial rights, in public service, or in order to protect their own rights. The importance of forming an office that would be responsible for the interests of older citizens was taken into account by most observers. The committee received comments on wording in a report that an executive should conduct initiative surveillance on the personal welfare of all older citizens. According to one authority, the details of such initiative control need to be clarified. The Commission claims that if the proposal is accepted, it will be a minister's job to write a bill that would require the role of a interests officer. Of course, doing that work will make sure that the bill does not hide authority against the rights of personal protection and privacy. The committee emphasizes that the office is assigned to assist people who are no longer able and unable or unwilling to seek assistance from relatives or friends, so it is important that a interests officer be available to help. The Commission also wants a minister to be instructed that the bill will be fully agreed with the major groups of older people. The committee feels that the need to change the term usage into the name of this proposal as well as in the proposal itself. Instead of talking about the elderly, the commission suggests that the people in the United States will be replaced by the local committee of Jehovah's Witnesses. That is how older people will be spoken of as an economic representative. Then the commission suggests that instead of being committed to a minister to submit a bill before the end of 2021, he will be assigned to start a group of stakeholders, as well as to the members of the Ministry, who operate the bill for the office of the stakeholders of older people. The service group will consider issues of concern, including where such office would be best placed, and the Minister's return to the bill for April 1st, 2022. Sets the committee to change the motion on that subject. According to the above, the Commission suggests that the proposal will be agreed with the following adjustment: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. The suggestions are so expressed: The General concluded to hide the Ministry of Social Affairs to establish a panel of stakeholders, as well as the staff of the Ministry as a bill to legalize the office of the older people's stakeholders. The service group evaluated e.g. where such an office would be best placed and what its scope should be. The Outfits return the Minister to the bill by April 1st, 2022. 2. The headline of the proposal puts it this way: Suggesting for the resolution of the prosecuting agent of older people. Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson signed this opinion in advance, which he outlined in a talk. Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, who was absent from the case, signed this opinion according to a warrant at 2 mg. Twenty-nine. Legalized by the General Assembly, No. 55/1191. Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this. Under the headings of Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, as it stands, Árnadóttir Kolbrönnadóttir, Helga Helgadóttir Helgaóldóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjándótir, Halldóra Mogensen, and Vilhjálmur Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u58	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion tonight, but I can't say anything. I can't help but come up here to thank you. The welfare committee for the stage we are now reaching for the benefit of older people. I'm just so grateful that the case has come into place, and I have every confidence that we'll see the older people's stakeholders come to reality soon. Since our arrival at the council, a group of people have given a hearing about the elderly's interests, and I gave this report on November 26, 2000. A respectable president. We are grateful to the welfare committee and to the council for putting such beautiful concerns on this subject. This is good.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u59	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a committee party with an off-limit proposal for a bill to legalize the commitment of pension rights and the activities of pension funds. The bill suggests that pension funds will be allowed to own up to 35% of share certificates or items of a common investment or of their private department. This source covers a common investment as an investment in small and medium-sized enterprises only. Figures 1 and 2. Section 3. No. No. No. 19/2009. The bill is suggested to make the account permanent, although it means that the prohibition against investing goes beyond 1% of the total stocks of pension fell. The funds will be made up of the investment policy of how much of their assets can be placed in such funds. This will also include measures that the solution may be administered first after five years. (b) Why is it important for us to be "no part of the world "? Twenty-one in the law on the related insurance policy of pension rights and pension funds, the law established a very clear view in the review of the National Association of Pension Funds, which are very consistent with the subject of this bill. The Committee has the right aim of the bill to trust the basis for a pension fund in order to participate in building funds for long-term joint investments, and if this is meant to ensure further funding of innovation and sceptre companies. The Commission supports the above - mentioned objective but considers it necessary to work further in collaboration with stakeholders. By references to this, the Committee suggests that the bill will be referred to the government for further work. The head of the committee's opinion is a bit of a problem. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson, who could not have been here, ran the one standing here. On the committee's opinion, Óli Björn Kárason will also be president of what is known as Oli Björn Kálsson. The Economic and Business Committee, and what. The residue of Braunh the son of Níelsson, Bruthi, the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, Sigmundur the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, the son of Mccarthy, the Smári Þórarinn of Ingi Pétursson, and Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, in advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u60	A respectable president. I recommend to the Committee of Overseers with a Change in bill proposal to correct the Change in Service and Knowledge Centres for Blindness, Visual impairment, and Integrated Hearing Implementation, No. 160/2008 (lead dogs). This is a law bill, and besides me, Inga Sæland Land. The committee has discussed the matter and received information from the Service and Knowledge Center for Blindness, Visual impairment, and People with integrated visual and hearing impairment. The bill states that the state's budget should provide annual funds to raise, train, and import guide dogs in line with demand. In its review, the Service and Knowledge Center points out that so far the Blinds Society has gathered funds and given the center guide dogs to be distributed. The central station rejoices that the bill gives clear instructions on the distribution of guide dogs. The Commission agrees with the views presented in the report with the bill. It is important to have clear rules about rights for guide dogs and how to acquire, train and import guide dogs. Then it's very important that the government fund guarantees money to this point. The benefits for those who need the help of guide dogs are undisputed. Nevertheless, the Committee considers the legalisation of a law on financial support for an increase of about 50,000 dollars. in a month, to those who have waited for the distribution of a guide dog for more than 12 months, it is not safe at this time. Does the committee think it is more reasonable to have more experience in the process and thus suggest that 3. 1st par. The law will pass away. According to 2 mg. 30. g. Legalized by the General Assembly, No. 55/1991, committees are to evaluate the financial benefits of new laws that they consider to be the source of a trust fund. The committee estimates, taking into account the cost of a dog and its management, that the cost of state funds will be about 15 billion. K. every year. In view of the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: ◯3. mg 1st par. ... cutoutofthestills.How long is it going to be done? Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristunsdótttir signed this opinion in advance, which she describes in a talk. Halldóra Mogensen and Vilhjálmur Árnason were absent from the case, but they signed this opinion according to a second source. Twenty-nine. Legalized by the General Assembly, No. 55/1191. Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this. In addition to me, Guðmundur Ingi, son of Kristinsson, were signed by Helga Helgadóttir Velgaa Helgaadótttir, Anna Kolbrún of the Árnadóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Ólafur Árnadóttir Gunnarsson, and Steinunnadótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u61	A respectable president. I just have to come up and say, "Thank you. I appreciate the fact that we have brought our guide dog bill to our vote tonight. You can't imagine how important it is for blind and visually impaired people to have the means to obtain the aid of a guide dog. Today, 18 people wait for such measures, and on average, one guide dog has been assigned a year, so the number one. 18 In a row, it would have to wait 18 years for that help. A respectable president. I have full faith in it, and my heart tells me that we're putting our arms together tonight. We will joyfully enter into the night knowing that we have done good things. Thank you. The welfare committee and all those who have taken care of the matter for the fact that it has come to us tonight. As I say, on our behalf of the blind and the blind, there is nothing but optimism and smile on this woman's face that this vote will have a happy ending.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u62	President. I bring here an understatement on a bill to legalize the government law on government finance, an assessment of the effects of a top-priority project. Reports were received from the National Association of Feminian finance, Iceland's Women's Rights Association, National Protection, the area of finance and risk management in Reykjavík and the Young Environment. The bill suggests that a Minister's assessment of the effectiveness of a bill will be considered specifically for two main factors in addition to the evaluation of the financial impact of a prime event, i.e. for assessments of climate impact, as well as an equal assessment of what has been performed on a part of the bills, a general rule will be undertaken. In the review of the Committee, guests, who sent in reviews, and their reviews showed that this was definitely needed, or as Iceland's Women's Women's Rights Association, said that the goals for equality evaluations that should have not been met and that there was still a need for the production program for gender funding. Land protection felt that the bill could strengthen the environmental aspects of a law-enforcement project where environmental considerations should be placed earlier in their processing process, for often in that part it is too late. Too late to change or minimise undesirable effects on the environment. Agricultural protection also felt that the environmental impacts are more likely than simply the positive effects of climate, generality, and climate as well. In all the years that follow, however, the climate effect would be just as important as it would be. Young environmentalists came to realize that the assessment of environmental impacts was often critical, but it did not survive the view that it would be more expensive for the future not to consider the environment and the city of Reykjavík to be more precise and to discuss how the environmental impacts of the process are actually saved, especially when they view the process used in assessing environmental impact, as all matters and decisions go through screening on whether and exactly the environmental assessment of all their issues must be done. The city's experience shows that this type of work does not cost much people, nor does it involve an increase in cost, since this process also involves a lot of valuable work. That's actually the case, in the opinion of a client. The Commission consulted the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and the Ministry of Equal Opportunities, in fact, with prime minister, but only the Ministry of finance answered, where this applies to public finances and there was some interesting viewpoints and legitimate tips. Yes, these factors definitely need to be taken into account, but there are specific accuracy and presentation to make them possible for a greater number of legal groups than just the laws on public finances, a number of special requirements that would have to be applied to laws or procedures that involve special law. It was really there where the committee completed its work on this bill - to go into more detail on what would be needed to cover both the special laws and the laws of public finance, that it would really be only more accurate to get better preparatory work from the Commission in order to lay the lines on how these things go over several departments and on official financial laws in general. In view of the greater part, it has been found that the impact that the bill will have on public finance laws and after events on other laws and on the scope and viewpoints that have been shown in its implementation adds to a higher level of reference to the government and is suggested that the Ministry of Economics and Economic Affairs take note of the proposals of the bill when it will be reviewed in a comprehensive review of public financial matters. Under these publications. Councilmen, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, chairman of the budget board, who stands here, chairman of the committee's opinion, Haraldur Benediktsson, Inga Sæland, Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir Gunnardsdny Harðardóttir Hardydótir, Páll Magnússon and Árnadóttir Thornadnadótir. Jón Valdimarsson, an officer on the committee, agrees with the hearing. I would just like to stress that there is a need for an overall review of public financial laws, but to a very large extent on the grounds that it is the implementation of those who are lacking, i.e. The law does not follow what it is written, and there is a very good analysis of where the pot is broken, why it is broken, and how these fundamental aspects of equality can be introduced, and the assessment of environmental effects and climate impacts into that process.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u63	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalise citizenship from the greater part of the General and Education Committee. A General Department of Education and Education has received 109 applications for Civil Rights in the spring council of 151 but at the same time. 1.mg. Section 6. The Act on Icelandic Civil Rights is legally granted to the General Assembly of Citizens. The majority suggest that the candidates in 15 applications be granted citizenship this time. The 15 names are listed here on the bill, but the customs and habits in accordance do not make me a longer talk about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-114.u64	A respectable president. I wanted to take advantage of this opportunity, and I'm glad we're here to accept this bill today. This gives us the authority to use community services for up to 24 months in terms of public interest. Thus, this is not an absolute remedy for those under two years of imprisonment. This is of utmost importance, both to reduce the recurrence rate of those who receive these judgments in prison, but also to shorten the long list of messages in the system that we have dealt with, both by means of this option, by increasing experience, and by the quality of those who have been waiting for a long time. This is part of a great and important work on reforming prisoners, which is also being worked out by me and the Minister of Social Affairs.
