ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u1	The president would first mention that this morning there were seminars discussing equality and the workplace here at the General Assembly and that members of Congress participated in the events, divided by circumstances involving an electronic event. The president wants to rejoice that these parts of the program were successful in making and thanking all who contributed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u2	A letter from the health secretary has been sent to ask for every request in order to provide a written answer to a covering query. 1126, for advice services, contractors and temporary projects, from Gunnar Sveinsson Svenson, to the river. 1157, on the treatment of children and young people who experience sexual abuse at the National Institutes of Youth, from Silja Dögg Djög Gunnarsdóttir. 1152, on legal advice, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, and finally on a threshing floor. 1155 on mold at the residence of the Land Hospital, from Birgir's Þórarinsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u3	It is suggested by the president that a meeting can last longer today than the Senate dictates if necessary. Consider this proposal approved if no one objects.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u4	To answer, financial and economic ministers, tourism, industrial and innovation ministers and educational and cultural ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u5	Mr. President. The Union, a pathologist, and indeed all the majority of the public has been calling for military action across the border to limit the risk of cross-infection. In the end, we took the Conspiracy case into our hands and sent in a bill of changes to the Disease Control Act allowing a minister to oblige come to the hospital. It seemed at last to move something about this government, but a day later her leading men had arrived in Hare at a press conference to report new operations on the border. We celebrate, but the press conference was rather confusing and left many with more questions than answers. One question on the lips of many is the reference to the incidence rate of infections. When a health minister last introduced a mandatory facility at a disease - control facility, a high - risk area relative to 500 people, as the European Commission suggests, was expected to have 100,000 high - risk areas. At that time, the situation was somewhat good within the country and the government was by itself. Today the situation is considerably worse, yet the government announces that the mass target should be increased so much that almost no country in Europe is defined as a high-risk area. V.E.G. Minister. What exactly calls for less demands than that of the government two to three weeks ago? What philosophy is behind it? Tells you the highest. Ministers not safer for the people that the same criteria are followed here and in other European countries instead of taking up the government to create its own?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u6	A respectable president. I've got to start by saying that here's why. A senator enclosing an issue that is not technically related to me. Nevertheless, I will respond as best I can. First of all, "wow." A senator said that many called for military action on a border. I say to them, "Yes, and for that it has failed. " I can give many examples of this, and we have done so constantly as we have seen it. For example, even in vaccinated people or those who showed a history of infection, we began to screen for the virus. It has not been long since, but proof of vaccination was e.g. accepted valid starting in mid - January. I could mention some more. We've moved to two different screenings and contours. It was not always that way, and we have presented it as a risk assessment on the border, and it is a few months old. This is specifically addressed to the criteria for the incidence of infections aimed at 1,000 infections for the 100,000 population over a 14-day period. You're wrong. A senator that no countries fall within that threshold in Europe, Poland, the Netherlands, France, and Hungary are all countries where the site of infection is, as it says. Therefore, for these countries there is a strict rule that, first of all, there will be only necessary travel from there, under these guidelines, and secondly, that there will be no more than one from the SEC. For the rest as a boy. A senator, according to these new suggestions, applies to the principle of going to an economist and requiring a release in order not to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u7	Mr. President. The press conference has been so confusing to the highest level. A minister doesn't even understand him himself. It is not surprising that the government's point of view answers for this matter. He also introduced others in his meeting yesterday. None of the country's highest. A minister said that he would expect an undisputed duty because the incidence of transmission is between 750 and 1,000. If the incidence is below 750, you can apply for a minimum, so that the only land in Europe where there is a strict obligation is San Marino, if I recall correctly. I ask, "What in this epidemic now, when there are 70, 80, 90 infections, do you expect us to take less measures than three weeks ago when there were only six or seven infections in this country? " What philosophy lies behind it, the highest. Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u8	A respectable president. I hear what you're saying. A senator believes I don't understand something, but I think it's the other way around. I'll think about it. A senator did not realize that this criteria, or 1,000 infections, applies to the whole country, even though there are only individual areas in the country where the reference is given. This is the rule on the basis of which, according to current information, it leads to four countries that fall within those criteria. Of course, it can change over time. The idea, according to the proposed proposal, is to update the statistics in this subject every week here in a country where the developments will be considered elsewhere. It is a key element in this new proposal that we are tightening our borders for protection from vaccinations and thereafter lyres within the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u9	A respectable president. Maybe it's time to turn a inquiry to the highest level. A minister of finance who is directly under his direction. You may wonder: " Who has really benefited from taking three waves of this disgusting habit into the hands of all the calamities that have followed? What has been the basis for this? How can a moderate degree of justification be justified when a large part of the nation has actually been bound from the start of this disgusting epidemic? It is long time for us to see the cost of standing in the borders and all the measures that we have fallen to try to deliver a few tourists who are supposed to save 10% of the economy that may really be on ice for the less than 90% that we have been able to carry on by ourselves. Isn't that true, chief? With regard to conditions last summer, did a secretary of finance assume that we would be as successful as it was with our personal consumption and as supportive of the economy itself? I wondered, now, when it comes to the militarization of a border, which is so militant that it is almost impossible for them to cover anything: what pressure is it, the highest. Secretary of finance, which the government is giving in? Where's the moderate? Doesn't count for the U.S.A. Secretary of finance? There is something else, and it is naturally not in his field, but why is it now a more comprehensive view of the value of vaccinations? All of this should only be opened once the previous vaccination has been completed. You're really completely, if I'm supposed to say it in Icelandic, no-go.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u10	A respectable president. When asked, " What are the costs of all government action? ' [[Up front.]] - Yeah, and that's what I was going to say, too, it's been a huge improvement. I think that it would be closer to talking about how much shelter, how much protection, we've been able to build up for the economy and the life and health of the people by means of the measures that have been taken. It's just that, if you look at it fairly, it's based on how the operation in Iceland and both the government and as well as the Council has shown great flexibility on the situation each time to react, and we're still doing it, and that's only normal. One of the things we will remember in this regard is that when we took our first action, we had no problem with whether a vaccine would happen. People had predicted that this could possibly happen late in 2021. But as time has passed, things have fallen with us, e.g. the miracle of producing vaccines that can be useful in a short period of time is set to a complete record in those materials. And, yes, we are going to benefit from the vaccine and get it to the people of the land. There is, of course, no other medical assessment based on knowledge in a disease prevention system, which will determine when restrictions can be reduced within the country. When all sensitive groups, the groups that become infected, the groups that are usually hospitalised, the people who are most likely to be at risk - when all these people have been fully vaccinated and a large percentage of the people in other respects have had at least one. The first dose is in accordance with the best data, and we will follow the advice of experts on this, very low risk in reducing restrictions in this country. Then we're going to use a risk assessment for the border.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u11	A respectable president. I'm going to join with a fine man who was in Silfra during the day directly from Australia, professor of I don't know what's-his-name, but at least I remember what he said, he called these actions voluntary. I'm going to agree with that whole mind, willing. V.E.G. The minister of finance speaks of what is real effort. A large proportion of those who have been infected with this virus and gone through it live wrestling with aftereffects that are not sure how to go. And I'd also like to know how to get to the highest. The minister of finance justifies that this epidemic has already been offered three waves of this epidemic, and we are probably taking the fourth in our arms right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u12	A respectable president. I don't think there's a lot of people on the team. A senator who calls the initiatives that have attracted attention and that have yielded undisputedly tremendous success in dealing with a pandemic. Not many people share that opinion with each other. A senator who is free to have that opinion. The results just speak for themselves. We have been able to keep ICUs to a minimum for many, many months. We have been able to maintain a personal consumption far beyond any predictions in this regard. The economic climate, the contribution of the state funds last year was beyond expectations, and professional optimism and the enjoyment of economic action were high. It's about to print, and there's no need to panic over the final meters, topv. President. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u13	Mr. President. At the end of last year, a bill signed by three council members before them was proposed that the end-of-the-lasting age of state officials might take up to 73 years, if they chose, refer to the government as part of an agreement on the end of Congress against the promise that by the last fall council, the bill would be given the same material from the government, from the Minister of finance. As you can see, since today's April 21st, the person standing here has shown some waiting attitude and has not been exciting over the fact that the bill has not been made available. But one of the government's supporters may be, well. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, offered a nearly consistent bill in the middle of the month, indicating that it has less confidence in promises of the highest order. Secretary of finance, but the one standing here. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: What remains this bill, which was by nature, as arranged last year, very simple? I also ask that because the Minister's conduct on this matter so far might possibly damage the council's end this spring, i.e. The bill that was promised as soon as my bill was referred to a government a year ago has not been revealed. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: What remains, and when does this matter arise?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u14	A respectable president. I'm going to start by pointing out only the context as a reason. A senator puts it in, but before I do, I'm going to say this: The case was referred to by the government and considered in my Ministry, and has been considered as well as a matter of pension rights in the country and is about to undergo a general review of a further idea of a green book. Other than that, just so you can only discuss the form here: What does it mean that men think it's a good idea that at the end of the council it's agreed on by a committee to a certain matter, which is a matter. A senator in this case has submitted, to be referred to the government against a promise that some Minister will promise in his own name to present the case before the Council? It was used willingly earlier, but it is a complete confusion of all laws here at the council. And the same is true when a person enters provisional regulations by law, as is true in another matter now stated at the council, a recommendation to the minister that he has a bill of some material written by him and gives it to the General Assembly for the treatment. Why don't people just lay down their affairs here at the council and test whether they have the majority of them? What does it mean to be giving it to a minister, appointing them for some homework to prepare for the council, or individual senators, some bills, and then carrying them in their own name as if they were their own interests? Of course, it's completely fucked up, so I don't use strong words. I reject these tactics, and encourage the council, called the Council, some senators who take the initiative here, in fact, far beyond what is common in other councils, the right to try and test whether or not they are supportive, to let these beauties be trying to turn their arms around and torture them to file issues regardless of whether they are interested in them or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u15	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for this answer. That was illuminating, but not encouraging. It happens that the highest. During last year's vote - about a bill that he described after the coming of the senators, and this senator has presented three times - to approve himself here on a vote that this bill would go to the government under the premise that it would appear in the last autumn months. [[Up front.]] That was the case with the highest power. Ministers play a role in the confusion and confusion he described in his reply here, which is a natural sense of irresponsibility and arrogance. But the highest. Still, a minister did not answer the question: Why has this bill not been revealed? It was simple in nature. Why has he not lived up to what was negotiated at the end of last year? That's the questions. But he was involved in the confusion, the highest. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u16	A respectable president. I think there's some misunderstanding here, at least. We see this in a very different way. I can be a part of the government's appeal and there they go for inspection and processing. This does not mean that a certain minister will present the matter to the General in his name and in the suit as well as the occasion. A senator wants it. [[Up front.]] It's not like that. The matter is considered. And so we get into a material discussion on the subject, I think it's a good thing. I think it's time for people to work longer than they already have in the public system, both in government and in rural areas. The points involved are fine, but they need to be discussed with, for example. The processing of pension rights, pension age and such factors. The point of the matter itself is fine, and I'd like us to achieve a broad solid solidarity and preferably agree with the labour market to find ways to make it happen, so I'll end it on a positive note.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u17	It's always fun to have a positive conversation over.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u18	President. All of us know that what is on our scales today is highly diseased on the border or in the country. One side must be tightened. We know that. We know how much it takes to get a wave over us, depending on how many are infected and the wave goes up. We know how much it costs in the wrong. The cost of losing rights has been made clear when we cannot master the wave, and it goes up, and there is always a need to tighten within the country. We know that. I want to pray to the highest. The financial and economic secretary is going over the following with us: What's the cost of this money? How much does this treasure cost? The actions the government has taken in order to reduce the cost of employment and households are based on some basis on the damage to companies and families in the country, so something has the highest priority. Secretary of finance will see how much this costs. How much is this community, both homes, companies, and then government funds? Some hear best when things are put in cash. I want to pray to the highest. Minister on that. After all, we are faced with a situation now that if we are not going to have to tighten the risk of internal disease. That's a fact. It is better for the lives and health of the people of the land to tighten them on the border than within the country. It is better for civil rights, freedom of action, and rights to educate and work to harden on the border rather than within the country. In what The Wall Street Journal put together on the impact on the economy, Sweden came out worse than Denmark, Norway and New Zealand, so we know it is also more economicly. I want to pray to the highest. The secretary of finance to bring it together for us to see how much money it takes to get another wave over us here within the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u19	A respectable president. I'd like to first refer to the economic assessment of the diseases we've published, in fact twice, the first report came out in the fall, and then another came along, as we would argue that it would be reasonable to maintain the possibility of the virus to enter the country and to use the disease prevention procedures in each country according to its circumstances in order to protect the economy. How much does this pandemic cost? There are many standards, depending on the way we use it. We can look at financial growth. We can set a lot of standards for this. I just want to say that me and the Icelanders have been led in many ways in the process of exporting, e.g. Regarding the double screening, the methodology that many recorded after we had introduced it in this country. Similarly, early in the process of opening a vaccination certificate or proof of a previous infection, we found that we had a simple screening in connection with what passed through the border. This has proved to be fine. We are in the most important sequence of infectious agents and the understanding of how the virus spreads within the country. So there is much to say about the ways we have gone and the results they have yielded. I would like to keep in mind that in some ways we have been in a certain pioneer service during our border operations, and they have been very effective. I would like to consider the second of each speech. A senator whether he is wondering if we could create a situation where there was no virus within the country so that we could eliminate all restrictions. [[The president calls.]] Is it true that he has that dream community in mind?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u20	President. Just so I can answer a question at the highest. Minister in unsubstantiated queries. A virus free society - we know what has been possible so far. We made a great summer last year because we caught up with the epidemic. We got to the stripe, as it's called. It is possible to do so. We know that. We've had experience with it, and we've done it at least twice. That's what you can do. And there is real reality. The situation is: The border needs to be tightened. The government is clear that the border needs to be tightened if we are to be able to set limits within the country. This is why PCR tests were initiated at the exit to determine if the color encoding system could be established. Today, the underlying factors are merely smiling, and the facts show that it is not a prerequisite because people do not become infected. [[The president calls.]] People who had to go for an infection failed, and the underlying factors are smiling if we are going to listen to the authorities. But again, just a simple question: What has been the financial cost of the epidemic so far? V.E.G. The secretary of finance must know that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u21	A respectable president. It's cost about that. 200 billion on direct and probably identical in indirect action. That's the damage so far. It is somewhere between 300 and 1,400 billion, just by the way we look at it. I don't think anyone could have prevented that. I'd like to say here that much of that loss was inevitable, and we have managed to reduce it greatly. Right away. I'd like to say we've got a very aggressive operation on the border. We're suggesting that they be expanded further. In fact, it is principled, written, and unwritten, in Icelandic rights that we must look to. And we believe that this is being taken into account, even if this is an obligation to go to an aquaculture in certain cases without the possibility of not having an exception.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u22	Mr. President. I have to admit that I'm a little confused after yesterday, and I refer to a press conference held in Hackera, where a bill was announced last night on the hard-tempered border treatments. At the same time, a member of the media saw that the eruption of Gedingadala was about to drop down houses on Times Square, where foreign tourists were being encouraged to attend Iceland. I wondered, " How can I encourage tourists to reach the country with increased levels of observation on the border? ' In the paper of the bill that was submitted last night, the President's permission says: The challenge of the Covid-19 epidemic shows that one person does not respect the transmissible regulations following arrival in the country to trigger a large group infection and even a new epidemic. I wonder. I want to ask the highest. A travel minister to see whether he is afraid that this could create gaps in the treatment defenses that would result in a re-array of more severe restrictions on the country and the paralytic of tourism in the country and a major challenge to the lives of the common people. If the highest. A minister may help me to understand more fully how these two things can work out together.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u23	Mr. President. First of all, this is why. A senator entered at the beginning of a query, an advertisement in Times Square showing a photo of the soda, then it's an advertisement that the Icelanda decided to publish and is just an advertisement of the company in this place. But we have set aside funds to post a market application, and we decided that some time ago. We're taking advantage of that money, for example. by measuring interest and travel. We're at a fixed campaign to make sure that Iceland is in a person's subconscious and people are looking into Iceland as a possible destination, in part, when it does, and in part, in the near future. We can see that the European market was once more likely to take over the United States market that was expected to come in later. Now it's turned around. It is obviously largely confined to the vaccine status in that country. The U.S. market is being attended because people there are ready to travel with a certificate of vaccination. The new actions and changes planned on the border do not affect any of the vaccination certificates or proof of antibodies. The rule is that there is a simple screening process on the border. There has been good progress and no transmission of infectious diseases. During the next few weeks, it may be quiet, but hopefully the summer will be with some more life, especially when it comes to tourists with a vaccination certificate that is entirely different from that of disease prevention. [[The president calls.]] The system we've been through is certain and quite certain, and I hope the summer will be very good for us Icelanders on the road, as well as for a group of tourists. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u24	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A travel minister for the answer. I get it so that Icelanders don't get any money from the Icelandic government to advertise there and that an Iceland lab is not on a special market campaign abroad to attract foreign tourists right now. I choose to understand it that way. V.E.G. A minister will correct me if I'm wrong. This is once so that successful market campaigns lead to greater interest. Hopefully, the purpose of the campaign is for tourists to travel to the country in hundreds of thousands. Then there is the question of the inside and how they can take over. Then I refer primarily to the way men will take samples from all these tourists, how they will be diseased for six hours, and how to cope with stress that they cannot get into society, because the examples prove that even vaccinated people can carry and distribute the virus. [[The president calls.]] Thus, as the number of tourists increases, the risk of transmitting infection is high. [[The president calls.]] Has it been thought to the end? I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u25	Mr. President. To be clear, Iceland's agency uses money to market Iceland and has been doing it. There's a lot of money left in the future that will be used when we get further into our vaccination plans here. However, we use these funds in a progressive way not only to measure travel but also to see where the major opportunities are but also to advertise Iceland among people around the world. There is a situation that we need to be sure of when we are able to care for. But it is also an investment that would pay very quickly to receive vaccinees, and as mentioned, no one has so far been vaccinated through the screening process and is found positive there. This is an effort to do what we can to increase the business and income of the state and the Icelandic economy without any control at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u26	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct the conversion of disease laws, No. 19/1997, and foreign law, No. 80/2016. This bill is made up of the Ministry of Health and Justice and is suggested as part of the action considered necessary in the fight against the SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes the Covid-19 disease. Before continuing in my history on this matter, I'd like to thank the General Assembly for the conduct that has taken place in the case of Covid-19 because it does not automatically exist in a community like ours, which is open and strong, and where democracy is great, where the debate is unorthodox, that there is so much harmony in society. Happily, the discussion has been marked, both within the council and outside, that generally it has been heard to mean total exception to the fact that the virus is made into political bitterbones. I think it could be said that it was the rule of the first ten, twelve months that it was. But it has been a little more recent, perhaps primarily during the years when people were concerned about vaccinations and who were concerned about the purchases of vaccines, and now when we are discussing arrangements for cross-border transmission. I think there are several factors that play the part that this discussion is about to develop now, perhaps primarily because this is a time of society's disaster as it is over, and we finally see the end of it. And although none of us ever thought that in April of last year we would be here for the preventative measures, that the maximum number that we can meet is 20 people, etc., I also don't think any of us have any reservations that we have come so far with vaccinations and in practice. Of course, the results of vaccinations have a major impact on national risk prevention measures, including cross-border disinfectants, because, as vaccination takes place, the better we are protected. And when I say to them, I mean those that are more likely than others to suffer serious illness. The recent and recent discussions focus primarily on the need to limit the spread of Covid-19 infection to the country. There is also a health care professional. declared that it is necessary for the government to bring about further relief under the official treatment measures he has proposed, including the proposal to oblige individuals to be diseased in a place of infection during his arrival. The purpose of the bill that has been given here to variations to speak at the Council today is to bring about a clear improvement under a provision that is set out for time, and, in fact, also, limited in the content of this provision. In this respect, the bill is made up of everything and marks the situation that exists today in the pandemic, and as a result it is set forth as a preliminary law. Meanwhile, we are considering the overall re-examination of disinfectants, which we hopefully see today light at the next council, probable behind elections, where we can use the food from the wrestling experience with this particular epidemic have a clearer view than before of what kind of legislation is needed for us to have the tools we need. In some respects during the winter or earlier during this council, we made a significant review of the treatment laws, but not so that the entire environment was viewed. This was discussed by the General, and it was settled at the General Assembly. This bill is designed to improve under the arrangement for the obligatory duty of tourists who come from certain areas to a place of transportation, regardless of whether they can stay in their own homes or not. This is how the situation today is based on current law that all must recognize that they meet certain conditions for home sickness and otherwise have to be in a place of infection. The bill on this subject contains two provisional regulations. In the first, it is suggested that a minister be authorized to implement a Regulation, but always to propose a disinfectant. The suggestion is to oblige tourists who come from the high risk area to stay in an environment of infection or in isolation at a place of infection. It is important to realize that what we are doing now with these laws is setting temporary authority to allow a minister to issue a Regulation, although at all times the proposal of a psychiatrist, it needs to be played together at all times. Thus, the bill is unusual in this regard so that we are talking, not about broad, general sources, but about isolated and temporary. This is natural in view of the fact that there is an urgent need to resolve the issue and that we want to prevent the cross-border transmission, as the report says. The bill assumes that high risk areas will be defined from the 14-day incidence of infections per 100,000 people. This is one of the many standards used, but this is the one used in Europe. A map is published once a week, on Thursdays, so we eagerly await the appearance of the map tomorrow. But, as we remember, Iceland is now the only green country on this map, although we've fallen in yellow at a time when group disease began to occur. For example, a 14 - day incidence per 100,000 people could be estimated to be more than 750 days. It may be correct for a health - care committee to consider whether the standards taken as an example will be taken directly into the law, and I believe that it is right for the Council to come to that decision and that question. I think both will work out, but the question is, really, how decisive the Council chooses to be. At the same time, the objective of the bill, as well as the second law, is a provisional principle for changing the law of foreigners, to give the Minister of Justice a clear warrant that law to limit travel to the country from these same areas except in the specific areas of concern, as suggested in Article 2. The bill. The same views about high risk areas and those of incidence may apply to this bill's terms as mentioned earlier. I think it would be wise for the committee to take a specific look, and I assume my ministry is prepared to discuss it in an opinion. Some might ask, " Wait, what is going on, and what is being changed? ' What is it, in fact, that is being suggested? Of course, we need to be very careful that every step of this epidemic is not to be overwhelmed by the urgency of our efforts. Today, there are very few people in the hospital. Very few are seriously ill. We are getting along very well with vaccinations. This week is likely to be a record for vaccinations and the next time more vaccinees are given. If a man looks back at the epidemic and its progress, I think it's safe to say that the situation is now better than it has ever been. Therefore, we need to be careful about any decisions that may compromise people in our daily lives or in some way deprive them of their freedom. We need to work on that objective evidence from the whole of the epidemic, as well as from average viewpoints. Whether in this bill it is going to be the way to set these criteria in the song text itself or in a report, as this is done, we would actually be talking about the pull through the line that we're holding over the group where more than 750 have been infected in the last 14 days compared to 100,000 people. Below 750 people, we have the same arrangement that is now, which is the arrangement for all to recognize that they can meet certain criteria for home-stabilising, or they need to go to a cartel or to a place of infection. Over the 750, people are under obligation to be in a ward. Yet, people can apply for a minimum of two days in advance to meet three criteria. The first condition is that the infection does not exceed 1,000 in the affected area, but it automatically results in the absence of authorization. A number two is that the person recognizes that he has an adequate place to stay in and can show that he or she is going to stay there under siege. These are certain restrictions, and the principle is obligatory to be in a sanitarium. I know that the council notices that here we are not talking about this general warrant that may be valid in various circumstances, but we are talking about a warrant we want to run in exactly these circumstances at the particular time that is being discussed here. The experience of the Covid epidemic shows, and this is the science we've learned, not because we've wanted to do it, but because it's part of our daily existence over the years, that one person does not respect the rules of infection after coming to the country to trigger a large group infection and even a new wave. In all, 118 cases have been brought to the attention of police because of the insurgent violations and isolation since the outbreak, of which 24 such offenses have been reported this year. All of these cases have to do with borders. Based on data from a disease prevention team and the public defense team, between February 1 and April 1, the last 202 active Covid-19 infections were detected in Iceland. Of these, 105 were identified on the border and 97 were found within the country. The trace of these infections has shown that all Covid-19 infections during this period are attributed to cross-border transmission in one way or another. In view of this, it is considered appropriate to deal with the spread of Covid-19 in the community from a border with the current legislation that is not considered sufficient for the spread of Covid-19 in the community. A respectable president. In order to reduce the risk of transmission of infection to the border, it is considered necessary to limit transport to the country from high-risk areas. Thus, the bill is entrusted with the Minister of Justice to appoint a Regulation as a ban on foreigners who have lived in such areas to come to the country. It must be granted to leave here on the land and because of the urgent efforts. Thus, using this strategy not only reduces the risk of cross-infection within the country but also reduces the pressures on the border and in the contaminants. It is my hope that with the release of this bill, we will be able to control the problem we are facing. But at the same time, I'd like to say that the arrangements we have so far used on the border are so that they are seen across countries and continents, i.e. to require a negative PCR test, to test for Covid-19 twice with a five-day national scrawl, to use a disinfectant, as we have been doing now from the beginning of the month, to increase monitoring as much as possible. But the big thing, and what has saved us from taking on very serious overall measures is the fact that we have a very powerful transmission, and I think that many of the people who deserve it, as well as the powerful trace that has taken place by the Icelandic genetics. These are tools that are not being used as rich as in Iceland. Therefore, we can keep busy by taking extreme action within a country that has been very important. My hope is that we won't have to hold a press conference again that we're going to bake together for another three weeks, that we're going to keep tightening, that we're going to take our last fight on another trip. My hope is that by taking the steps presented here, by continuing in the best course of vaccination that we can see, we are simply starting to look forward to the time when society will start to work here as we know it best and that we will be able to clear up all the disinfectants within the country not later than in the summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u27	Madam President. Thank you very much. Ministers very much appreciate the presentation of this bill and thank her for making it available. I've got a call for help from the highest level. A minister to the council to provide adequate support so that a country and nation can be protected in the fight against a virus that rages in all the inhabited earth. I'm ready to take the necessary actions. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of the time frame set into this. What will happen in the world on July 1? This bill is absolutely a market for the position we are in right now, said the highest. Minister. On March 1, we did not know that we would have 100 infectious diseases on April 21. Is it not unwise to set a law such a time when we do not know where the world will be on July 1, and the General Assembly of Iceland will be on summer leave?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u28	A respectable president. I thank the senator for identifying my plea for help, but I say without a doubt that, of course, I suppose, as has been more fortunate in all these matters, which are bound to the Covid debate, that it is basically a stand-up at the General Assembly. I appreciate the welfare committee's presence. We do not know what will happen on July 1, as the senator rightly points out. Yet, we do know that we will be there with the vaccinations that we have left very little of the community. Then we should be able to have the responsibility that much of the domestic operation should be history. In terms of this source, my assessment is that the amount of time given here should be sufficient. But I think it's a good idea to assume that in the case of the Council it will be possible to reevaluate it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u29	Madam President. Thank you very much. A minister for the answer asks: "Why have we decided a speciality of the category at high risk sites? Why do we not follow the European Protection Agency, which has classified this and has been followed? How's the top? A minister may not appreciate how a tourist will demonstrate in an adequate way that he will meet all the conditions of a disease bed in his own house? How do vaccinees and individuals who have Covid fare? Do they also have to stay in a wardhouse because there is no evidence of this in the bill or, rather, in regard to the regulations given to the welfare committee? What is sufficient information about territory or land, as specified in the bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u30	A respectable president. First, on the basis of Europe's chromogenic system and on the other hand, an integrated risk assessment is set up by the color encoding system, based on data collected over time. It is an attempt to maintain the data as much as possible on the day. Adding an assessment within the country is actually a matter of building on the data and information we're dealing with on the border just as hard, i.e. about how they spread, about where they come from, etc., so we're actually saying that our estimates are better, that it's stronger when we add these national data. One test, as they've done so far, will still be vaccinated, and it was coming news from my Ministry today that it had given a good shot, i.e. that, in all cases, individuals who bring a vaccination certificate on the border had been identified without cross-infection during one test.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u31	President. I have an endless number of questions, but extremely little time to ask them. So I'm going to ask the highest. Minister only to these remainders. I would like to ask if it was discussed or if it is important to make sure that sensitive individuals or groups can be evaluated for the possibility of being over a head in a five - day environment away from home. Then I am, for example. talking about disabled individuals who need special circumstances or help with everyday life, individuals with spiritual problems, e.g. post-traumatic stress disorder or severe claustrophobic feeling, but also families with babies or disabled children. How should we make sure that we do not place such ones in an inhuman setting? Has there been any individual evaluations made? It is mentioned in the application for notation to have received at least a disease control doctor. two days before our arrival. When will the answer to that release be received? How will we make sure that people are informed about what will respond when they arrive?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u32	A respectable president. First of all, those who are disabled are a very good example of groups who are to be given an exception in my opinion, and that is actually in the current Regulation and will continue to do so. Then let's get it together as a boy. A senator specifically asks for, i.e. Of course, groups or persons who need to be diseased but who have some health issues or things that make them feel that they need a release. But it's also that way, and I think it's very important that the Sarcotics have a specific backfield in the health care sector so that we have connections to both the health care professionals and to our mental groups, so if there's a sudden incident that needs to be taken by specialists in this area, we want it to be done without the person's ability to go to the emergency room or something like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u33	President. Is it true, then, that even the group that is spoken of as not to be given an exception - that there is still a way of ensuring a sensitive one? Okay. At the end, I ask if the bill has been established that it will not violate the United Nations Children's Covenant. Thirty-seventh. The covenant speaks of the very narrow conditions that apply to the detriment of children of freedom. Is that taken into account? Then I'd like to ask why it's happening so fast. Why do we need to resolve this in one day, and why was this not done sooner if this has to happen so quickly? Two weeks have passed since the conviction of the district court fell. This is a bit of an unpleasant situation, though I completely agree that it is extremely important to do this. Why is this done so fast?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u34	A respectable president. First, only with regard to the children's covenant and the rights of the rights. A senator mentions, of course, who is of great importance, and we have looked especially at them. This is especially taken into account for children in drawing out the existing regulations on the basis of the bill, being a law, both outdoors and equipment. Especially is this so, in the light of their viewpoints. A senator mentions. Hv. A senator asks why it's happening so fast and still so late. It is true that ever since the Passover, there has been a need for improvement under previous decisions. But it was equally evident that we would try to do so as if we could use regulations on the basis of current laws. But we felt that as time went by, we needed to evaluate whether we still needed to strengthen our recovery. That was our assessment, in view of the fact that we faced group disease within the country, that we needed to trust our defenses on the border. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u35	A respectable president. I agree with that word. Health Minister that following the advice of scientists and their professional counselors, as well as the importance of solidarity and the need to protect it by any means available, I think. It is essential to success. I now see the goal as if these are drawing up measures to cope with leaks on the border and that the bill is two-way, related to the residence in a convalescents and that, on the other hand, foreigners from these same areas are not allowed to come to the country in certain cases. I'm only wondering if there's a solidarity in the board, because then there's a Regulation. When I'm reading Regulation, it's the highest. Minister of Justice to me is only a different language from that of here. I wonder if this Regulation supports the target, since here is a list, I think, in some ten teams, of all cases where this prohibition is not relevant. This does not apply to alien residents who live in this country, who are not close to close contact, who are not relevant for staff transporting goods and services, such as passengers on transport, etc. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u36	A respectable president. I believe that there is complete agreement between the schemes involved. And although I recommend this, since it's a short-time tapeworm, we're a complete arm with our objective in this matter. We felt that a warrant would be opened to the Minister of Justice to set up a regulations considered here. However, as with the health - care minister's regulations, this warrant would be applied no different than using a memo from a pathologist, which is, of course, unusual in this case. However, in this way, a psychiatrist must apply the warrant by a memo to a justice minister, possibly by some local health minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u37	A respectable president. I've been very clear with my position all along, that it should follow the advice that a psychiatrist has drawn up. If it's the landing here, I'll back it up. But I wondered, because when you look at this bill and then you look at the regulations that come with the Minister of Justice, you're actually talking about everything other than the bill, because there are so many exceptions and so much that the law itself is all but empty. Was that the goal?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u38	A respectable president. No, it is natural that the aim is in common, and the aim is to prevent cross-border transmission as much as possible, while remembering, of course, the fact is that the diseases that have developed and have been analysed on the border are not because we set rules, but because the rules are broken. People actually break the rules, and the infection comes up. With regard to such regulations, it is the custody of the Minister of Justice, but with the legal instruments discussed, and hopefully it is legal.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u39	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A health minister for bringing this bill, even though I would have liked to have it slightly different, end up with a group of people after introducing a modification proposal to it. There were so many contradictions in the history of the highest. Secretary of health. I don't really know exactly where to begin. It's, for example. Talk about trying to prevent people from being prevented from being in their daily lives. Still, we've been more and less chained in here and blocked in our daily lives since about a year ago. I'd like to ask the highest. A health minister to see if it is a defense, since we have been so willing to do the work and have followed all the things we are told - the Supreme Court. A minister also mentions the experience of Covid and something else - to justify that we may be getting the fourth wave in our arms right now. Tells you the highest. A health minister, when she herself brings up the fact that every infection that has been identified inside the country can be caused by leaks on the border where the virus has come in, every single infection, that we would have had to pass through so many of the epidemic's waves? [[The president calls.]] Tells you the highest. Health Ministers that we could not have prevented this and at the same time be free here in the New Zealand, Australia, Taiwan, and other nations?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u40	A respectable president. I refuse to speak for any reason. Senator. I refuse that Iceland and the people here were more and less chained in their daily lives. That's wrong. I don't think there's any point in building a lawsuit in that kind of conversation. I refuse. Fortunately, a pathologist, and I certainly hope that it is correct and correct, that because of the degree of transmission we have, the degree of precipitating we have, and the degree of responsibility of each one's resources in the treatment strategy, we will see that we can handle the fourth wave, which is the course. There's a senator here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u41	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. She can refuse anything she wants, but she shall answer me, hopefully dignified as always, what it means to have a meeting limit. What does it mean to have taken much of the economy out of the way so that we cannot help ourselves? What does it mean to be unable to go out among people and be locked up? Does that not prevent our daily life? I'd like to ask the highest, too. Healthcare Minister: There must be many behind the incidence of infectious diseases, e.g. in 38 million people, such as the Poles, in order to conform to the definition of disease - related to them? I guess the highest. A health minister has calculated that number, because what countries should fall under it is absolutely clear, so I guess there is no answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u42	A respectable president. Happily, the number of people in Iceland who have been locked up in this epidemic has been less than in most parts of Europe. In many places, even children have not been able to stay outside. And speaking of the United Nations Children's Covenant, discussed in the context of the environment, it has been a daily life and reality of children in Europe during a period of peace. So again and again, I reject the giants. A senator because I don't think they'll help us at all in this discussion. [[Up front.]] Hv. A senator in particular asks how many people must be infected with a certain nation in order to make that nation appear to be elderly on these standards or more than 1,000 per 100,000 inhabitants. I don't have those numbers in my hands, but basically, four states fall under that definition now, i.e. Poland, Hungary, France, and the Netherlands That's the situation right now. [[The president calls.]] A new map of the European Environment Agency will be updated tomorrow and we will see if there has been any developments in this development but, unfortunately, there is still a significant rise in the virus in many parts of Europe. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u43	Madam President. I want to thank you very much. Health Minister for at last presenting a bill for changes in disease protection laws so that the greatest leeways in the border can be prevented by 14 months from the start of the Covid-19 pandemic. As many should be aware, at the council four weeks ago, there was a discussion at the highest level. Healthcare minister announced a directive to oblige tourists from high - risk areas to live in a government - controlled centre, travellers from dark red areas, which was then used to define the European Center for Disease Control in such areas. Madam President. Yesterday, the public, yes, and the whole world, heard that the government had invented an Icelandic variant of the definition of which areas were dangerous and which areas were in the high - risk area. The Icelandic species is about 1,000 infectious per 100,000 inhabitants but not 500 infectious people, as the European Center for Disease Control uses. No explanation has been made on this Icelandic species; rather, the government expert who has relied on the last 14 months, the psychiatrist, Þórólfur Guðnason, wants to know that when the government decided, apparently at the government table, it would be best to change the standards of high - risk areas. They no longer have 500 infections per 100,000 inhabitants; they are 1,000. Last night's Spokesman said that he had not seen the bill, and this morning at an information meeting, he said that this time he would see what the bill would look like after a political treatment before a decision would be made on the rest of the day. Madam President. We have a pandemic that does not act on our wishes. It is not clear how this special variation in the definition of high - risk areas should simplify our vast task, for it is a clear and simple message that is the best way to establish a solidarity among the people and among the tourists. Yeah, tourists, because they need to know what to expect to come to the country. On this basis, people decide to go or not to go on trips and to follow the instructions given, to be familiar with the travellers. It's a bill that's the highest. However, a health minister suggests that both measures for changing disease laws as well as changes in alien law can soon be considered clear and easily understood, but this is the basis for the public to follow and understand their purpose. The introduction of the law, although temporary, so narrow that rather than allowing a minister to implement a Regulation, I think it will be most unfortunate at this time as it might be understood by a psychiatrist at a meeting of information this morning that he is somewhat uncertain about the situation. He may also interpret his words so, but I may be wrong, that he would actually be courting the council to go on the basis of Regulation rather than the guidance of a bill with the bill, to decide what the situation would be in relation to the situation of the pandemic would be more given to the CDC. That's the best I could understand. A minister just before, but she also asked for the council. A word of the highest order. Minister of health in the previous public address. Its bill is entirely marked by the situation we are in today, April 21, 2021. But the law must be clear, Madam President. They must be somewhat predictable, and they must be so that we understand them and their purposes. We don't know how this pandemic will behave next week, but we didn't know last week that we were standing here today with 100 infections. Therefore, it is unlikely to have this source so clearly defined. Madam President. There are some factors that must be kept in mind beyond this Icelandic concept of a definition that I have already mentioned. First, there is provisional treatment laws with a very short duration, or the second July 1st. While the expectations of the government today are that vaccination will be successful in this country, we need to realize that it is a pandemic, and this is not limited to us. The global epidemic is changing. New strains appear that are more likely to spread to new groups rather than to those who once existed; new strains appear as more or even less diseased by species. We do not know what the situation will be on the global scale on July 1, as we did what the situation would be today as we looked forward to our last March 1. On June 1, we also do not know what will be the result of vaccinations in the world. All we know is that the General will be in a summer break in time, so all members of the Parliament must be called to serve if a legal hearing has to be extended. That, on its own, is unfortunate. It is a threshold for us to do this in this way when we need permission to act quickly. Allowing longer periods of time does not violate a moderate degree, as it is established that the treatment laws both discuss clear rules that a minister could take a moderate measure in his action as well as clear regulations in Article 13. that certain measures can be taken if there is evidence that democracy is in imminent danger. It is there, Mr. President, which we should add as a warrant for the duty of people to living in a cartel. This law can be found in the bill of the United States Parliament, which will be recommended below. The moderate law of the law of the last change stated that arrangements should be made only if necessary for the protection of human health and life. During the application as well as the reduction of measures, there should be moderate and equal control, taking into account other interests, especially those who are protected by the Constitutions and human rights contracts to which Iceland is a member. These two things protect us from government abuse. If so, those who feel that they have been wronged may consult the courts, as was the case with a minister's regulations that lack improvement. Because of a change in the Minister's bill at the beginning of the year by what it is. As with other legal procedures in forced labor, a panel of well - acting committees will handle judicial hearings very short of time. Hence, we can now apply a law that actually helps us in the fight against the virus, a law that gives governments authority to act quickly and unforeseeable measures. At this point, I'd like to discuss the second act of the bill, i.e. how to get it to the highest. A minister sees to it that he or she takes care of tourists who have already been infected by the virus or who have received a vaccine. There is nothing in the bill, paragraph, or draft of regulations involved in this issue but it is only considered how to take on applications for the exception of the application from a disease-free home to those coming from sites with a recent transmission ranging from 7501.71,000 per 100,000 people. Of course, this is the prospect for tourists, and no tourist can know what the situation will be in his new home country after a few weeks. So only those making a trip with virtually no warning can tell if part of the time will be spent in a cartel or a homehouse. Mr. President. A law on the change of foreigners is the same issue as I have previously established in terms of the definition of the high-risk area as the given time point, or to the 1st of July. Yes, Mr President, I believe I may claim here in this chair that at the highest. The Minister of Health wants both things the same. We both want to do everything we can to protect the country from the virus. That's what I wanted at the beginning of the year, that's what I wanted four weeks ago when I had a word at the top. Minister here at the council Hall, and I would like that now, Mr. President. And I believe that, of course. A health minister wants that too. I'll support her in it, but then I'd like to show her that in the bill of the Group of the United States, which will also be recommended today, a warrant that provides greater protection on the border, protection that the public of Iceland has called for loud noise. That bill also contains a new definition of a disease - control facility, a definition that is not as limited as the suggestions given. Health Committee from the Ministry of Health for the management of the Commission on the bill, which was in progress at the beginning of the year, a definition that became part of a disinfectant law. By providing more extensive sources, we have a possibility, if necessary, Mr. President, to provide greater protection. For example, in view of the constant variability that the virus has now taught and shown us, some authorities may at times have to be able to respond quickly. We're dealing with a virus that we don't know how the next week will behave, or the next week, but the laws of the disease, as I said before, will affect the government's control. Hence, we need not fear that they will be out of control or without cause. Mr. President. In the submerge of the bill. According to the secretary, the overall objective of the bill, by permission of the President, is to further explain the sources that governments have for public disease prevention in accordance with the requirements of the legal principle and the legal rules of the Constitution. I'm afraid I don't think this bill has caught it. That is exactly what we need to be clear and understandable in the legal setting in this country if we want the common people to follow our rules. We must now stand by country and nation and respond in a decisive way so that the people and tourists understand where we are headed and for what purpose.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u44	President. Piras consider the most successful way to protect the Pandemic rights of the people to support cross-border disease prevention. The choice now is between putting hard limits within the country or hard limits on the border. Pirata's opinion is that the latter ensures that the city's better rights are covered. So we will support legal adjustments aimed at supporting the stay of the disease hotels. Yet, much needs to be considered with regard to the project. It's a key ingredient. It must be ensured that the transfer of the cross-registered hotels performs other laws and constitutions, and it should be made sure that the export does not go beyond what is necessary. People need to be well informed about what awaits them during their arrival in the country, and visitors of the tourist hotels need to have the right to an outdoor, providing adequate circumstances for children and people in a particularly sensitive position, etc. We believe that such implementation is the most successful way to protect the rights of citizens of this country and the most successful way to ensure normal life within the country. That's what we're protecting, a normal life within the country. The bill for the treatment of disease control on a border now covered by the General Assembly and now that we are discussing is in no uncertain terms. For example, the exporting of the DMV is unclear at this stage and will be used to make it clearer so that the bill will succeed and that the government will not again be brought back to justice. Exceptions and unnecessary trips are rather vague and require complete interpretation. If the government intends to limit its rights, it is minimally necessary to determine the precise rules, which people are required, and why these rules are considered necessary. However, the biggest comment Piratar makes at this point shows that the government definition of these so - called high - risk areas, but there is not a reason why the government feels the need to establish its own definition in this case and why it is used to bring up the incidence of infectious diseases to every 100,000 inhabitants, when Europe's CDC and Surgeons have said that high - risk areas have risen to 500 or more. This must be clear. Similarly, there is no question why the government brings in a series of transmissible transmissible sites to the countries as a whole, there is something that I don't feel is fully explained or was at least insufficiently explained at the meeting yesterday. These specialisations are designed to cause unnecessary problems with the rules involved in coming to the country, and this can be dangerous. If the information is not clear enough, it is less likely that people will follow the rules. We naturally feel that the rules are simple, clear, and in line with international standards to prevent this confusion because clear rules make it easier for all of us to apply them. If the government wishes to rely on the definition of high - risk areas, we feel that the limit should be updating to 500 or more, as the European Protection Agency and the Center for Disease Control have mentioned. But it certainly does not require the scientific community to adopt a special standard. Those who come from areas with a lower incidence or are in a more sensitive position may then apply for extra leave or be able to apply for extra leaves from a sedentary stay. They need to make sure that their answers pass on in time so that they will always know what to do with them, what they are doing when they come to the country. President. Now we have laws that limit people's rights. It is minimal that we do our very best to have the law successful. The objective is to make it possible for us here to live as normal lives by preventing transmission of infectious diseases through the border. The proposal of the government is that we set a lower standard than any other European nation on what constitutes a high - risk area and I can only see that it puts the national security at greater risk, and it is also not a fall to the target. I hope we can do this well with the Committee, and we get the answers to all these opinions. I am very open to the fact that I may be reading this wrong because we have a lot of work left on a welfare committee. It would have been wish that this work could have come to the council earlier, that we had the real time to look into it and make sure that we're not making any mistakes. But this cannot be changed, and there is much work to do well. Pirat and I will do our part so that we can live as normal as everyone, first.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u45	A respectable president. The news from yesterday's press conference is that we could, according to the skirmish plan we saw, be looking to recover our former normal life by the end of June. I think that this kind of plan is an important motivation for all of us and that it is very important that it lies in the way it is now. It is, of course, presented in the context of vaccinations and is, as in any other part of the Covid period, normal in advance. We do not use words as often as we do in Covid. The schedule should normally be taken in advance of the follow-up vaccination criteria. We've called upon a program like this here at the council Hall and in the debate for a long time, and I think it's very good that it's done because I think it's so important, now that we're starting to see the country, that we're going to frame the steps and when they're going to step up. I'm going to commend the government for having taken the step of publishing a plan like this. In Covid's day, it might be said that there is some precognition to be what you can ask for, but we all know how important this is for a business in business, and what this means for the people of the country, and for those enterprises that have been literally paralyzed by the epidemic. But I think it also has a profound psychological significance and is a key to teaming up right now on the final meters that we get to see the finish line and see ashore. But because a diplomat cannot allow himself to come up here and just commend them, I would like to say that I wanted to see this plan a little clearer, for example. the percentage of vaccinees required for which age is accurately calculated. I have previously mentioned in the Senate that such plans have already been published by the government in Denmark and Norway. Danes have said that they will take certain steps in these substances when vaccination at the age of 50 will be completed. Norwegians have introduced a step - by - step program that has explained what goals to reach the end of June. I hope we'll be able to hear this today from the board of directors who are the guards and a more detailed explanation of this strategy. At what rate the vaccine will be given e.g. for or for what age range? We saw in a cornea yesterday that there were certain targets for reaching that point, I can't remember what the word was, that a large proportion of adults will be vaccinated. What is a great deal, and who are adults? But I was very happy to see a timeline of vaccination at the government's corneal presentation yesterday, so I'm going to let myself be bright and happy and positive in this regard today. I sincerely agree with the highest degree. A health minister in regard to the importance of the community and is, in effect, essential to success. Hence, the predestination that can be provided is so important that governments are so important that governments are clear about the things they can be clear about, and that is why it is so important that governments are moving in rhythm. There's something left for today whether it is, as I mentioned in the answers just moments ago. When you look at the bill, this short tape worm about the conversion of disease laws and alien law, it seems clear to you that the goal is to take charge of spills on the border by entering these two laws by means of certain measures, followed by the regulations of two ministers for the extraction, health ministers, and Minister of Justice. The bill allows the Minister of Justice to be allowed for this limited time in order to forbid foreigners from certain high - risk areas to come to the country despite meeting general requirements. But then when you look at the regulations that include countless teams to which foreigners of this law are not involved, there is only one other. But I hope we have a further explanation for whether this is behind our mind. Regarding the bill itself and what is being done here, it is important to me that this is a temporary means of saving people's health and lives. Of course, this is a legal balance in order to protect people's basic interests, health, and lives. It is not only that governments can do this, they have a obligation to do so, certain initiatives to defend this most important interest, but they also have the obligation not to do it by overstepping other basic human rights. That is why it is so important that we defend this community covenant that we have established ourselves as to how the laws in the land are given, how governments govern, and how we stand up with that authority and authority, and how rules are clear. I think it's pretty clear to myself that there's obviously a grammatical view behind it. I feel that this route seems reasonable, taking into consideration all circumstances and that this is an attempt to soften this operation by allowing it to be timed. At first glance, I would say that I think it looks pretty decent. At the end, I would like to say that at the beginning, over a year ago when we left, our solidarity and empathy were met and that it should be our objective all that once we reach the finish line at the top of the mountain, we can all say that we have managed to go through this epidemic with these two words, empathy, and solidarity, as a guide. Then the spring is coming, and the world is warming.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u46	A respectable president. I don't really know what to say. You're just half dead. I thought maybe we had enough. When it comes to political raw skin games, or anything else, when it's said that we've allowed the authorities and experts to show us the way, it's nothing but politics. That's what everyone knows, both those who say other things and the others who don't say anything. It's politics, and it's politics, and it's politics, and it's special. I say no. First, it's about protecting the lives and health of the people of the country. This has been demonstrated by the three recent waves of the epidemic, as it has been seen in what we are taking into our arms right now. I'd like to ask you, since the incidence of infectious diseases is up to 1,000 per 100,000 inhabitants, do you realize what kind of song it needs to be so that we can apply the rules we're about to agree with today? I'm certainly not going to draw feathers over the fact that it would be a good thing if the infective factor wasn't so completely high as this -- I'm sorry, President, I know it's Icelandic - that it's an all - out of clouds. Let us realize that when we were elderly and were fighting at our front bases, most of us were infected in Iceland in one day over 100. Do you realize what that means in the incidence of infections in 14 days? About 300. That's more than three times less than this bill is expected. That's about 300 infectious, a respectable president. The European Agency for Disease Control speaks of about 500. When the incidence of infectious diseases is about 500 per 100,000 inhabitants, which is 14 days away, all red lights will blink. No, we need to make a special rule, not just that the rate of transmission of infectious diseases needs to be 1,000. The rule says, "You're going to a sanitarium house now. " That's 750 considering it's possible to apply for notation. A group also says: "It is not right to speak of our lack of sort of restraint. I've lived with people who were at greater risk before vaccination. I had to live in a place where I couldn't do my job here and come to the Hall, simply because I didn't want to have my conscience infected by Covid-19 and carry it to my house. We all know what Covid-19 is possible. Nobody's missed that. That is why I find it quite different when we speak of it in our final meters that it is brighter ahead of us. It seems only to be brighter ahead of Iceland. We have so far to say that we are vaccinating the entire inhabited earth that it is not even smiling. It's so far off. Based on the fact that we're doing a lot of advertising the country on our way out to pick up tourists, considering that 40 foreign airlines are in the starting range to attend our country, considering all of this, it's just a wonder how this is prepared for us here. By pure contrast. A respectable president. The people's party has a change in their proposal for the bill. We'd like to take a scrambling for all those who think they have a message about the border at the time we're defending ourselves here in the country, at the time we're achieving the body resistance we're calling for. The source of the infection is many times known. There are many proofs and demonstrations. Of course, the crown virus is not just falling from the clouds or bringing rainwater, and I have not heard that it is coming with the migratory birds. But it comes through the border, through the leek border. This is amazing. Speaking of not even taking into account how much counterfeit Witnesses you can buy, PCR tests and vaccination certificates through certain sites on the Internet and pay for them a few pennies. It's not even taken into account. It's not even about how powerful we are, but it's about how powerful we're, even if they're vaccinated, we're picking up passengers. One scan. When do we do that? Was it on arrival, or was it in five days? I think it's on arrival. What we've seen and learned from Covid and all these screening programs is that we see a lot of infections in the second screening, a lot of them in exactly the second screening. And what is being done to prevent this? You want me to tell you? Nothing. Nothing. The first screening is to be performed. Why are they screening when they arrive? Why is it, then, that after five days of screening is not really the same as the second scan? Experience has shown that this is an entirely unpredictable epidemic. We can't rely on anything, that the virus behaves in one way or another. Even now, it is said that as we grow in vaccinations, we also prevent our oldest groups and high - risk groups from going to the hospital. The fact is, we're dealing with a lot of different viruses than we were last year, a lot different. It's British now. Now we're seeing in play schools how she affects children. They're infesting now too. It's different from the previous variants we were dealing with, quite different from them. So I say if there was a real desire to open up here, we'd need only two, three weeks, and we'd be out in the summer, the sun, and the spring. If that were a real will, each individual who came through the border would be in a contemporaneous environment. We are looking around at communities that have had remarkable success in their own home to cope with this epidemic. It's different than before we've learned a few things on this road, and it's done to the DC and to our D.A.'s health - care provider. I remember that when we started dealing with the virus, it was first counted for the Ministry of finance and the economic consequences that it was just a small wreck that we were driving through. We'd just have to stick together and it'd be over after three months. Are there 12 or 13 months since that song was sung? It was like no one ever lived in the real world. It was as if no one realized that we were dealing with a pandemic. Instead of enjoying it and taking advantage of our being special, we had three waves in our arms, and the fourth is on our way. I don't think it's bad news. I don't think it's an undefeated procedure. Whether it's a big-man word or anything else, it's my conviction. This is what I've been talking about since I started this discussion in January 2020. I've never stopped doing that. I and the people's party have been rowing by themselves on that boat until now, suddenly, we have borrowed senators from government opposition who take the years with us. Until then and until only recently, no one wanted to comment on Covid-19 and how to react. Everyone said, "Oh, boy, we're so good. We're being controlled by the CDC. No, the elected agents and I are not going to take responsibility. We don't know what to do. But our responsibility is ours. That's absolutely clear. It's the highest. A health minister who takes the lead in this boat from A to O. It's as simple as that. I can't see any real will to protect us here in our country, in our lives and in our health, while we don't totally stop the virus on the border. We're in the palm of the room. We can if we want to. But the will is not there, so that it is said. All outward appearances about something else, all plays about something else are virtual dramas because there's nothing to mark. It's almost impossible to have the same incidence as in the highest bill. Health Minister: 750 and then you can apply for that. One thousand! Is this some kind of a joke? I don't remember what, but I think about 30,000 people have been diagnosed a day in France. 16.5 million people, 30,000 a day. In view of the bill, there would be over 60,000 detections a day in order to fit this 1,000-year-old incidence index. Yet, we have heard that four nations that fly red must be consigned to their arrivals here; France, Hungary, the Netherlands, and Poland. I wish that we could get those numbers on paper. Those answers seem impossible. You're pushing it. In fact, I was well served at the council's information services. They will always help us if we are in trouble and do not fully know how to approach the certainty of what we want to share. I wholeheartedly thank the council information services for their fine service. We senators can always approach them and find answers to the questions we have. It is quite remarkable that they even are quick to do so. The adjustment motion made by Archks means that everyone lives in a fishing house without exception, not just for five days, but seven. And why seven days instead of five? Why does a group of people think they know better than the government of the disease? We, unlike governments, who keep talking about looking around us to see what the Norwegians are doing. They have 10 days. They've fly red to Icelanders. If we visit Norway, we'll go for ten days. What do the other nations who have been successful in the epidemic, New Zealand, Australia, and others do? Australians have two weeks of contaminating without exception. This is where individuals really pay for themselves. A group of people make the adjustment to the United States bill, and just as with this bill, they make it pay for the passengers themselves. The exception is if social or economic circumstances prove that he cannot and is unwilling to do so. Simply put, the objective is to try to reduce flow and unnecessary traffic across borders. That's exactly what we have to do when we're getting cattle resistance inside the country, while we're supposed to be able to smile in the faces of the summer and the people and say, " Look at the top, there we went, and we finally won. But it's undefeated if the fourth wave is to be costing us, and we have one more trip, while we wait for freedom, to be held in attendance restrictions and other bans. The fact is, the whole and half classes, the groups in the country, have been put aside from all their helpful work. Stylists, musicians, from whence they were taken. It's completely different. How was Easter again? How was the ski? What was the nature of all of them? No, only sit at home because you are not in bondage, and there is no meeting booth or anything. What kind of contradiction is it, sire President, that we intend to promote and despise the people who have sat at home and hardly looked out of the house by claiming that a large percentage of the people were not bound to try to protect it and prevent this epidemic from crossing it, that it would get this virus? I'm telling you, more dignified President, that the group of the people has never been a burden to express their opinion in this matter. All along we have wanted to follow the New Zealanders and learn from the nations who have achieved the best results. Despite the fact that other nations even look at us for the wonderful way we've been doing and how hard we've been doing, I can also say that I've heard just as much laughter as we did not take advantage of being a 370,000 people in the north of the prom sea. And it would have been no problem to prevent us from experiencing the calamities of the virus we have actually done. If the will had always been to put our life and health first, it would be a little different. If the will had always been that, and if it hadn't been the economy, the 10% economy and the special economic security that ruled the country, then the situation would have been different.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u47	A respectable president. We are here on a bill to legalize the change in government laws and laws about foreigners, preventative houses, and cross-border roads. When the health minister spoke to this bill earlier, I noticed her incredible claim that our situation was much better, so we should start out with caution. I don't agree because our position really weighs salt. We don't know if the virus is going off full force or if we can stop it. But it is perfectly clear that unless we put a stopper in the leak from the border, we will not stop the virus. I'm afraid this bill is far from there. The latest news, which is kind of strange, was coming to Science, where the highest. A health minister claimed that it was on the way 16,000 doses of AstraZeneca from Norway that the Norwegians were lending us. TV2 in Norway began to explore it and went to the Department of Health, I understand, in Norway and they just came from the mountains, had no idea. But the Ministry says it's like this, and it wouldn't have been put out unless it was definitely there. I don't know if this is another amazing thing in this case involving the government in connection with the Covid-19. If we just look at this, both the law and the Regulation, and take the Regulation that speaks of the ban on unnecessary travel from designated danger areas, this dramatic list will come up: ▪ Code 1. nor does it apply to foreigners who come to the land for the sake of urgent matters, including the following: a. A passenger on a connector. b. Healthcare professionals and aging services c. Staff who are involved in the transfer of goods and services. d. persons requiring international protection. e. persons who have to travel because of extreme circumstances in their families. B. individuals and emissaries who come to the country by the Icelandic government, sent office, and other representatives of foreign countries, staff of international organisations and individuals available to those who have to come to the country for the sake of these institutions, military representatives, and humanitarian services and public defences and families of the above. g. miners. h. persons who must travel for business or work that are the nature of which they cannot be carried out later or abroad. This just tells us straightly that there's not been any stoppers in the border to stop the Covid-19. The border seems to be going on. The only way to stop this is to do what the people's party put out. We demand that all tourists who come to the country spend seven days away from their arrival in the country, and a tourist should be paid for a stay in a place of disease. Imagine all this list I read earlier that we're paying for this, the nation, even for people in all kinds of business ventures and even people coming here to see the volcano on Smokeynes. At the same time as this is happening, the government asks with surprise and wonder: " Where in the world are we going to get money for those who have been trapped for more than a year in this Covid epidemic and are finally being vaccinated now, those with underlying diseases? But there seems to be enough money for anything more than that. It seems to be a well of nothing more than nothing. It's really strange that we should be in this place because, like the Norwegians and the British, nations around us are paying the interest of individuals. We also say: ▪ A health - care professional is permitted to give an exception from this obligation to show a tourist in sufficient ways that he will meet all the conditions of a disease bed in his own house. We are there with a very narrow reserve and very strict conditions, both that housing must be in place and that the person accepted supervision. As we have seen, these numbers are strangely developed, 750 infections per 100,000 inhabitants, 1,000 per 100,000 people, whether within the state, within countries or in regions. We're not even supposed to be talking about this. We are to keep it as simple as possible, simple so that everyone who comes to the country goes to a place of disease, they themselves pay, they are seven days, and just a few exceptions. As we also present, these exceptions need to be applied for two days in advance. We also have to figure out where the pieces are going. We have a clear understanding that the virus that is now circulating in the country came through the border. What does that tell us? Yeah, if we'd gotten into this, like we thought we were doing when we changed the treatment laws for the winter - you always believed that we were setting it up and had already learned from our experience and had come to the point where we were also learning from New Zealand and Australia and the areas where we've been showing how to do this. No, somehow we completely messed it up, completely. Did they react immediately? No. Now we're responding, and it's a complete damage. This bill won't solve any problems if it goes through. But is that better? Maybe something. Therefore, I sincerely hope that in order to make this as definitely as possible, we will see the approval of the people of Stockholm. A health minister also observed that one test was sufficient by one person who had been vaccinated because they showed that they were not infected. But the fact is, there is an amazing number of people who have not been infected at the first screening at the border, but who have been infected with bullies during the second screening. This tells us that we cannot trust that this will happen. We must also realize that e.g. The newest case in New Zealand about transmission was because an employee was cleaning a plane from a red area. Imagine, an employee is about to clean up a red-field plane and it's infected. They'll handle it at once. Well, I guess we're supposed to be really lucky, considering what the health minister and the government says, in view of the circumstances we have here. But we've seen it, 15,000 people, having fun in New Zealand at a concert, no one in a mask, all free. We know, and we have a clear understanding of how we were last summer. We could travel around. But it's all gone. The saddest thing is that we may not have this for more than two months, we don't know but hopefully we won't have kept our heads until we had vaccinated the oldest group and all those who have underlying diseases. It was said that we had an incredibly comfortable position in relation to Europe. In many ways, this is just a little more comfortable than unfortunately, but it shows only black in white how the European Union has screwed up the affairs of the country and the national groups inside and the vaccination issues. There's just evidence that we don't have to be particularly proud of being a little better than Europe. But we're far behind the rest of us who did the best they could. That's what we're supposed to aim for, and that's what we need to deal with. But we must not forget that, and we must realize that we have not come to the conclusion that the consequences for those who became infected, those who have been infected, and those who are telling us that they are experiencing symptoms many months later. That is not only the older ones but also the middle - aged ones but also the younger ones. Should we believe that this is acceptable? Are we going to accept this, even when we get to June 7, when they're about to adopt the color encoding system and other things, and we may not have injected everyone, that our children get the virus, and we don't know the long - term consequences? I say no, we're not supposed to accept this, not in any way. We are not to accept now that school can become completely upset. We can see that the entire number of people at school and in school are going into an environment of infection, and we know how the sports work has been. Ferrets and birthdays and so on. It would have been all right if we had stood up and stood up. If we had made sure of it back then, when we were taking the treatment laws against doing things right. I have to say, I was amazed at how we could turn it completely upside down on the welfare committee. What we were doing was to make sure that the authorities had the tools and tools in their hands that would be needed to stop the virus at the border, and then we could be in good shape until the vaccination was fully completed and we wouldn't have to worry about getting infected and infecting a lot of people. But I'm sorry, it didn't happen. As I've come to that point, I'm not impressed with this adjustment, except that the law should apply from April 22 to June 30, as it has been reported. We people would have liked to have this much longer, even until the fall, October, November. It tells itself that this authority does not have to be taken care of if the virus is gone and everything is in order. Therefore, it is better to keep this thing longer than to call a council again in the middle of a vacation to extend if necessary. As we have seen in the news, the expert physician in this Regulation says that there are blurred and high recently spent - there are only a lot of doctors and people who don't like it, who want to take a firmer stand. We in our people feel that we have the responsibility to try to make sure once and for all that we stop the leak on the border and we do everything we can to keep this country free of the virus so that we can have a good summer, hopefully without the virus. To do so, however, we need the approved change.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u48	A respectable president. We are here about the change in the laws and laws of foreigners. This is an unexpected response to the calls and circumstances that came up. We had come to a good place, but the goal of this bill is to bring relief to further treatments on the border. It is suggested that governments be more effective in fighting the Covid virus. I come up here to celebrate this bill. I have felt that we had to set a clearer legal approach to the procedures we need to take, and just to meet the wishes made by a psychiatrist. True, it has been some time since the death of the sentence and the arrival of the bill, but circumstances have also changed rapidly. I've been thinking that we'd have to get this better because maybe we can't get ahead of the virus, but we need to be with her in order to react. Without comment, this bill passed through a convention party of the Agency, and we are very happy with this government project. Of course, it is clear that the virus is not very political, and all of us have certain views about it. Questions arise and I was going to respond to the highest level. Minister but missed it. But I had some questions that I could, even though I could not answer them here. These are not my warning. They're just speclers on how this works. Surely we too need to take into account the position we are today. She's something else than she was a year ago. A year ago, we didn't even think that there would be a vaccine at this point right now, let alone that we had come so far. It was a distant dream. We had been talking about a few years ago, and we also had a few years when we were dealing with epidemics here a few years ago. Today, the fact is that some 31,000 people are fully vaccinated in this country and those who have received at least There are nearly 77,000 totals - 77,000 Icelanders. This is a fact that we couldn't dream about a year ago. And yet this continues, and it is said that we can be fully vaccinated on July 1 when these temporary laws fail. But I can honestly say that perhaps it is right to record this and make it a long time to deal with unexpected situations later. I'm not necessarily talking about Covid. We can take all the lessons we have learned from going through the epidemic, and we now have a group of people who are reevaluating their whole resources. This year and the time we have gone through now, all that experience will be included in that work and revision. I hope we can see the end of this virus even this year or at least the preventative measures we have to take against it because we'll all be vaccinated. Further, vaccines will also develop and improve. I'd like to mention here if we think there's enough work to do. Is that enough? Would it not have been better to establish a clearer or more strict law, though in view of today's situation, that the Regulation has been less sensitive? The rules take into account today's situation. Perhaps there could have been some legal means put in here that could be responded, perhaps in mid May. I'm not going to be so pessimistic as to think we need it, but it's a question of what could be done. At any rate, we must always be able to react as quickly as the virus, since it is always coming behind us. Today, people are only obliged to have a contagion that comes from countries that have a 14 - day rate of infection of more than 750 per 100,000 inhabitants. According to criteria, it is now about 15 countries and can be applied for advisability for persons from areas with a prevalence of infections ranging from 750 to 1,000. But the question is, How are we going to increase our surveillance of those who receive this commission and are going to go to bed? How will we keep an eye on them? Have we done so well? Then there is the question of what repairs we break on the treatment laws. Is it expected that governments will be able to enact them? Who, then, will they be? Then, too, this prohibition on the prohibition against unnecessary travel, which has been considered here for several reasons. Councilmen. Visitors to the country are said to have to apply within two days of their arrival. If it becomes an attack, because we know it is possible to arrive in the country, both because we have relatively few infections and such as. to see the volcanic eruption, it could have gravity, how will we deal with them? How is this Regulation being carried out? Do we, then, fully confirm the judgment profile of this Regulation and be moderate in mind? These are all questions that are natural to wonder, even though I really celebrate the laws we are currently putting and have been called after us, because we were really shocked when this new infection came up. All of this, however, takes over and when we're putting some changes in order that might take effect today, it's not unusual that there are any blunders on the project. We need to act quickly. But I came up mostly to celebrate this case and to hope that it will work because we will see that we will be fully vaccinated, as planned, before July 1. It is not surprising that we are not completely closing the border, since various countries around us are also struggling to vaccinate. And then there are different sites of the virus, as well as the incidence of infections. There are, for example. No infection in Greenland. Are we going to tell the Greenlandians to come here to the country, as suggested by the Gang of the People? We need to be moderate and optimistic about the fact that this will be all right in the summer, that we can welcome people whom we truly want to do what we normally want to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u49	V.E.G. President. Here we will discuss changes in the treatment laws and laws of foreigners, as we have seen many times. I want to start by going back to class, but not far. April 5th. A federal court concluded that a law imposed on them a lack of correction. At that time, the welfare committee never had in mind discussing such an arrangement, and I was surprised at the fact that the Regulation, as most know, was given this authority. Not because the warrant was inserted, but much more so that there could never be discussed within the committee. The discussion and the results, as well as the results, have been followed that we now have this matter in our hands that must be solved quickly. Although I would like to allow myself to point out that there is a great deal of work to be done by the members of the Central Party. We hear in the media that either there is no change or there is not enough going. In order to start somewhere, it is good for you to now, apparently, a fairly clear improvement in the rate of the planned procedure. We are close to the finish line, and it is vital that the people meet together to reach their goal. But there certainly are questions. We're not breaking up now, are we? Are we heading for an unsuspecting Iceland now? That's what we need to know. And what changed? We also need answers to why we were not informed about the 118 cases that have come to the police for the violations of convalescents since the outbreak of the epidemic, of which 24 issues are being raised this year. I want to give this 24 special attention. Did they all pass the disease? It's, like, a... a question that needs an answer. It is said that all the issues that have developed in 2021 relate to borders, which raises the question, How? Are these foreign tourists, or are they foreign inhabitants? With the bill, the Minister of Justice is authorized to appoint a Regulation and I intend to quote here only what says on that Regulation, by permission of the president: To prevent foreigners who have stayed in such areas to come to the country. It must be granted to leave here on the land and because of the urgent efforts. Thus, using this strategy not only reduces the risk of cross-infection within the country but also reduces the pressures on the border and in the contaminants. We need to be informed as soon as possible if we need to speed up the issue against what extras are behind, what it takes to get a release. So it is with unnecessary travel. What does that involve? Is it the travels of officials, or are those who take refuge, or what is the meaning of that statement? However, I would like to allow myself to commend the government for their decision in the high - risk area. I think this is the first time in the epidemic that the government has decided on its own without the European Union's approach. We here discuss two laws, one for the change in disease control laws and the other for the change in alien law. Keep in mind that this is only temporary or temporary, and of course, questions arise: Is there a medical note, or are we waiting for it? Is the line of fire being diseased, or is there only one person who makes a note this time, as always before? I'd just like to step aside to the Safari Hotels, because I've been wondering why we don't use the hotels that are near the Cheflavour Airport. They are closer and smaller, so that good equipment can be offered. In addition, unemployment is measured high in the area and all that is suggested by using the hotels there. The second item is a violation repair. Are we going to have extra efficiency for collects? We hear about people who are fined, they leave the country, and the guilt goes down. I'd also like to discuss some of the regulations we have received. As far as I can see, a psychiatrist is committed to totalitarian authority in the subsidiary Department of Health to implement the various measures, and I can't be happy that it is once again placed on one person's shoulders to make decisions. So again and again, I would like to call for the treatment of the disease prevention. But I guess it was the intention of the greater part of this council to disassociate it as a policy party, and it was done in a legal review. To me, it's basically about vaccines and how we've been able to get them. I'm sure I'm glad now seems to be doing better, and hopefully we'll keep up with some well-informed plans. Most people rely on vaccinations, both the public and the company, but behind most companies, small, medium and large, families are a matter of life's worth, therefore, for the same party to have a hard time. The information industry has to stop. In the past few years, there was a news report in Visa about a Norwegian vaccine that is not yet reported according to the Norwegian way, although health ministers have spoken about it today. In the lead speech, the highest. Of course, a health minister wrote about the rarest words of thanks to the Watchmen; the government, the trident, the infectious team. All the people deserve to be thanked, but the main thankss that were not received should be given to the people of the land. We must never forget that they are the people of the country who have stuck together, and who have fought all the defenses that can be done, and what is more, the nation has stuck together in spite of all the Enlightenment that has ever happened to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u50	Mr. President. The government has put great trust in the Disease Control Authority in fighting the epidemic in this country, and I would like to commend the authorities for the wonderful performance and success they have shown in fighting the virus epidemic. So it is interesting to observe what those who have knowledge of this field, infectious experts, say about the latest application by the government, which we saw at a press conference yesterday, which was quite special in that regard to his being confusing and raising many questions. Sadly, it was not well enough for the government to do so, but it must only be said at the moment. I saw an interview with a head doctor and a specialist in infectious diseases where he was dealing with this latest implementation, and he says that there are weaknesses in it and that he would have liked to see a simpler and more rapid process and to make numbers of infections, as reflected in the Regulation, to talk about them, as mentioned here in this room today. He also says that it is not clear how these figures are selected and what is in relation to, not for analysis of how they are made, whether or not they have bought the so - called projections that show that these are the limits to which we can find pleasure, based on such an enormous way in which success is proposed in the Regulation. This is where I'd like to say, Mr. President, that this administration of the government will immediately be passed on to the head physician and specialist in infectious diseases. The government's bill aims to ensure that people from over 1,000 different countries will stay in a disease - control facility, as well as those from countries where there are more than 750 incidences, unless they have an exception. It is not only a temporary source that allows a psychiatrist to decide that some are better off and that the principle for all goes to a place of disease, and then there are reasonable exceptions. I'm just saying we should look to other countries where things have gone well, like Australia. They've had limitations for a year, as well as New Zealand. And when people come from a land where things are in a way that's inaccessible and infectious, people who need to travel are motivated to go through a land that is properly defined. People in general aren't stupid. It finds ways to get past things if it chooses to do so. Then it has arrived in Iceland, although the incidence of infections was very high in the country. He's going through another country where it's lower. If the aim is to prevent leakage of the border, then it must be arranged so that the system cannot be overlooked. I think it's quite simple. If there are a number of exceptions, as we can see in the Regulation, we are being offered a risk to the world. Then it's really just pointless because it only needs one spread on a border like the highest. The minister spoke in his prehistoric speech. So we know fully that there is such a troubled unit, nervous members of the Independence Party, who may be responsible for the fact that this bill is all so vague. We need to be clearer and more specific, and we need no reason to have all these exceptions. I think so, Mr. President. Let us consider these terms only. In fact, this was explained to them by means of a talk earlier. That is what 2 C.E. says. the bill that it is permitted in the Regulation to issue an ban on the law of the law on the rights of the law on the rights of the law, from the ban on the arrival of the country, including the Because of your dwelling on this land, and the greatest cause. And there's nothing more specific in the law. Then you have to go to the Regulation and find out all of this. And what is this about? Then you'll see one eight teams, who're an exception. There are health - care personnel and aging services, staff who perform the transfer of goods and services, people who have to travel because of extreme circumstances in their family, individuals who need international protection, security workers. They're given an exception. They say they need international protection, but it takes a long time to appreciate it. We know the pay period at the National Institute of Iceland, it's months, and we'll find out if the individual needs the protection or not. But he'll be able to come into the country. No one needs to tell me that these people can't carry them, but they get to go into the country. Right now, there's one very prominent leak in the system. Then there are foreigners who have fasted farms, and we know that, for example, we do not. Unemployed foreigners who live in a regular area of the country often go from country to country. It has been observed that the highest rate of cross-border transmission is observed among people with Polish citizenship. These people get to come in. It is part of the manner, these fine people, but it can indeed bear infection and an example of their doing so. There's not enough to come in here. So it is almost immediately done to make it more and less useless. Then there are some questions that arise when you read this law. What's it like, for example? Is it possible for a tourist from a high - risk area to pass through another country, as mentioned earlier? How will humans prevent this? What is an urgent matter to be given annuity? It says here: "Because of the greater importance, what is it? The answer must be clearly answered. And what are so unnecessary trips? Who will determine if a trip is unnecessary? It is also said of foreigners who are in a close relationship that has lasted longer with an Icelandic citizen or a person who has a legal home in this country. Mr. President. This whole thing is so round, it's kind of weird. This is all more and less holes when it comes to preventing the spread of infection. It's got to be said right now. I think that it is certainly necessary to consider all these matters of opinion afterwards in the work of the Committee. Officials are being given a special exception. Do they need special training? I'm asking. Are they not going abroad to meet with other people, and are they not at great risk of carrying them to the country? No, no, no, no, no, no, no. They're supposed to be given an exception. I think it has to be handled very well with the Committee. Although we in the Middle East are not going to prevent this matter from being accepted, we do want to review the matter carefully for the better. There are many vital questions that need to be answered, many, before this case becomes legal. Before I finish my case in this 1st. Um, Mr President, I'd like to come into the matter of vaccination only because we weren't here at this point, discussing a bill like this, if the vaccination case had been okay. Iceland had everything to carry in order to finish vaccination quickly and safely but it didn't work. We have seen too much delays and have really messed up the government's vaccination program. There was no reason to consider this matter, this vital task of immunization to the European Union. I don't think there are many who believe this and put their confidence in the government's plan to go after the first dose of all Icelanders by 16 years of age and older on July 1. I don't think that's going to work, and I'm not sure that many people will believe that it will. Every day that goes by without the completion of vaccination, the nation is very expensive, the community. If we first talk about the financial factor, the state budget will lose billions of dollars and collect debt every day. We need to live with impaired freedom of movement, freedom of movement, and human rights that we cannot measure for money. There are lost opportunities, lack of other health care services, worsening spiritual health, and poor quality of life, for we know that living under these rules is very burdensome and can have harmful consequences. This speculative position of vaccination in this country is primarily written on the government. The entire nation could have been vaccinated sooner, opened up the country, and eliminated these costly limitations. It was to be the top priority of the government to ensure a long time ago sufficient vaccine. The government did not succeed in that matter, and everyone can see it. There are just over 350,000 people living in Iceland. It's like a small town in America. Why was it not for example in the United States or Israel? These are both people of friends. The European Union's failed vaccination program was never to be hung by it. Due to delayed and incorrect decisions, vaccination was much slower in the European Union than expected and therefore the virus epidemic has been used to rule out longer. Nations within the Union, such as Germany, France, Italy, and the Netherlands, made a special vaccination alliance to exert pressure on the European Union because of its poor performance. In July 600 million doses from BioNtech and 500 million doses from Modernna were immediately secured by the United States. Japan, Canada, Hong Kong, and others also completed contracts during the summer and fall. What were they doing back then, in July? That's quick. The government was waiting for the European Union, which did not start order a vaccine until November and then too little. Mr. President. Iceland is an sovereign state and there is danger that the nation is a pandemic, and the government decided to leave the European Union in its control, let the European Union determine how we are angry in times of danger. Have you forgotten that it was seriously discussed by the European Union to stop sending vaccines to countries that are not part of the relationship? It was a huge miscommunication on the part of this government to place all its trust in the European Union in this matter. At the end of the line, Mr. President, I'm only gonna have to come into the convalescent hotels and the state funds are paying for all of this. I can't see why. If we look to other countries, France, Britain, Norway, then the city itself, which goes to a convalescent hotel. In other countries, such as Germany, Sweden, Denmark, and Finland, there is a local anxiety. I don't think it's a good reason we have to be paid for tourists who come to this country. [[The president calls.]] But I finish my case, Mr. President, and I'll be back in this discussion later, but I hope these many facts will be addressed in this bill on the work of the Committee that is ahead of us today.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u51	Mr. President. I'm gonna come into this 1st. and mention a few things, perhaps indiscriminately, but things that I feel need attention on the case here at the council. First, I wanted to say that I think that in itself it is very happy that we will be given the opportunity to discuss this at the council. The motive is that the health care system was considered to be a lack of appropriate relief and the purpose of the bill is largely to meet the lack of them, i.e. to bring appropriate corrections for the measures of the highest degree. A minister recommended in the Regulation, which was not a court order. It's good for itself. I feel that way and expressed that, in general, in the discussions here on changes to the treatment laws in the past winter, I wrote that making decisions that involve some kind of civil rights impairment is natural that it is the council that does it rather than be carried out. It is clear that the lawgiver takes a clear stand on the decline in civil rights to take and on what basis. In this respect, I welcome the behavior of this bill, which certainly supports the ideas that existed on the part of the medical authority here a few weeks ago. Formal sees it seems to me that there is a support here that meets the basic legal and legal requirements. But I suggest that you do. However, a well - being committee to whom this is considered will pay some attention to the fact that there is adequate recovery in light of clearly. It seems to me that this works in principle, but I think there is still reason for the committee to wonder and ask visitors about it because the perspective of the recovery process must be over all doubt, especially in the light of the avoidance of events. Now, however, there is something that needs to be kept in mind, not merely to clear up the process when going near the Constitution of the Constitution, civil rights that the Constitution's European Court of Human Rights protects. Of course, more factors need to be considered. It is not sufficient to be clearly stated in the lyrics of the Law that there may be, there will be more requirements to be met. To this end, I would like to mention that the human rights principle allows for such a breakdown under the circumstances that it is necessary for some legitimate objective, that is perfectly clear. The Human Rights Act is thus stated in the constitution that the rights to be defended by the regulations may be restricted to certain conditions fulfilled. But it is not enough to say: The requirements are met, the public interest demands it; action is being taken to protect life and health. It also requires implementation of the measures, in the implementation of the impairment, to watch out for various factors. In this regard, it is particularly challenging for two principles; on the other hand, a consistent rule; however, it must be taken into consideration in the implementation of such laws that they do not involve discrimination between groups on some indiscriminate basis; and so is a rule that may be more challenging in this case, although the equality is certainly that it needs to be examined in connection with the implementation of these charges; it cannot be overlooked that there may be grey areas in this case when it comes to interpretation of the equation. But this is especially the moderate rule that needs to be considered. The average rule is made in a variety of ways, and I admit that it is clear that the bill authors have seen more of a moderate rule in the implementation of this bill than one has at times. Still, I feel that there is a little more to consider when the matter is treated here at the council. Then I would like to mention, Mr. President, a list of checklists, specific questions, specific guidelines that need to be considered when assessing whether the moderate order is respected, whether it is followed in the implementation. In the theory of science, certain ideas have been developed on the subject of a moderate estimate or a test, whether it is a law of regulations or individual government decisions, should be subject to these factors. There have been some guidelines for work that need to be asked and which criteria should be taken when assessing whether burdensome action, whether by law, by regulations, or by government decisions, will be moderate. Before mentioning these core points or main questions, basic questions that need to be asked, I would like to mention that the average order is both unsolved and written. According to a general constitution, a moderate estimate must be submitted, which includes the general criteria not to go beyond what is necessary at any given time. But then individual laws of human rights also include some implementation in that relationship or specific guidelines. Also, the Court's moderate order may be even clearer as it is stated in administrative law. It presents a challenge, not to the legislation, but to the administration of the European Commission, the executives of the Commission, to replace the legislatator, to implement the rules, and to implement them on their terms. But as time is limited in this case, I'm just going to review these four main questions or basic tests as a law, in this case, must be considered to be in accordance with the average rule, thereby a compatible constitution and, indeed, human rights agreements. The fundamental question is whether it is a legitimate objective, i.e. whether the purpose of the law is legitimate and in accordance with the constitution and other such principles. There may be something to consider. In general, if you have sufficiently broad and open goals, most of these can be applied to you. If we say, the aim of the law is to promote a better society, it will take over quite a bit. Similarly, if we say that our objective is to protect life and health. That's a lot to cover. However, extensive target definitions are not useful when it comes to evaluating whether the proposal or the degree of impairment meets the standards of the average standard. In fact, the more general, open, and less vague the goals, the less effective they will be when measured. So we just have to figure it out, and I think I know what it is. The well - being committee reviews the clear objectives of this law. Is there a clear objective that they will not be able to enter the land or that they are somehow limited, and how much? To me, it is not enough to say: The objective of this law is to protect the lives and health of the people of the land. I think it's too extensive. Another question that needs to be asked is whether the procedure is what has been called a critical procedure, i.e. whether she is willing to achieve the desired goal. That's where I think it's safe to say that the bill's suggestions are in context. There is a logical relationship between them and the target ones. I mention again to the darker the goal, so it is harder to determine if the operation has failed to achieve that goal. The third factor to consider, the highest. President, is there a choice of the most minor means of action? I have to say, I don't think the bill's report answers that question. I'm not going to rule out that it can be, but I don't feel that the report clearly answers the question of whether different measures have been made in this regard, that leads to the conclusion that this is the least minor option that can be made. This can then be linked to the question of whether or not to carry out the procedure as much as possible. It is harder to evaluate, and it may be more difficult to accomplish this and when things are done. But I prefer to ask what I mentioned earlier, i.e. Whether there is evidence that there is a lack of logic, especially in Article 1. the bill, be the smallest tool available and may be useful. The fourth question that we need to ask ourselves in this connection is then linked with a greater degree of moderate judgment, as it has been called. There is then an assessment that, after choosing the smallest available option and making it possible for a decision to be made beyond that requirement, the public interest needs to be weighed and, on the other hand, the potential individual interests or any other interests involved in this relationship should be weighed. This food can depend on various factors. It's not just financial or cost analysis or something like that. It is also not so simple that it can be said that some public interests are always exclusive. The degree to which the individual suffers and suffers is to be looked out for. So there is also food that must take place in connection with these laws. I'm aware of that, chief. Mr President, the time of the council to discuss this is limited, but I wanted this to be the case with 1st. emphasise that these baseline tests or core questions of the average protocol get any space during treatment. At any rate, the welfare committee and the welfare committee do what they can to make sure that the bill as it is made will meet that standard. But before I do, I'd like to mention it, just so that I make it clear, that the bill itself or the rule recommended in the bill has in some way certain moderate ways. There I look to the limit of my time. This has already been discussed today, and some felt that this was critical. But I believe that there is a great advantage that the rules are intended for relatively short periods of time, not so that they cannot be revised when or before the time of their arrival, but there is a moderate measure in the fact that when they are dealing with temporary situations, this is done by temporary, not permanent, adjustment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u52	Mr. President. We've been discussing this matter for some hour here, and it's clear that there are some conflicting opinions on this matter of the government, i.e. whether or not the government's plans are too far, whether or not they go too far. But all of us have the same goal in life, and that is at least a positive goal. I'd like to, before I'm on my own, to celebrate that last night at the government press conference, we've been talking about the skims. We've been calling for it for a long time and we're not alone in this, from a pathologist to a number of other categories and people in the community, learned and acting. The situation is that although we haven't exactly been in a position to nail down the time set, dated the extraction plate, it's easy to lay such a plan out on the given basis, so people know what they're doing. It's just part of securing the survival of our community. I also like to see a vaccination plan, and it was very positive. It was natural, though, that the picture was blurred. The meeting was inexplicably blurred. The feeling was, in effect, that the ministers who talked to them were not completely accurate and that's not good because we came back to the point that the logic is important to ensure continued solidarity. I can't put a story in the middle of a story that is only an hour old that the Norwegians have come from mountains borrowing from AstraZeneca vaccine to Iceland, as the Icelandic government has guaranteed. Now I really hope that we have things straight, but it's really awkward to get this into this discussion because it increases the inexplicability we so really need that is not there. I hope we're on the final stage. We have become adamant, often over the years, very different people in the community. But it's just the ones that are most likely to come along now that this is going to work out and that they want to get a clear message. The premise of our need for solidarity is that people understand government operations, and it has to be said, as it is, that the press conference did not help. If we talk about the work ahead of us now and connect with this bill, which is intended to support legal matters under regulations that have been introduced by a health minister on the other hand, and the Minister of Justice needs to work fast, it sounds to me. Today's discussions have done well with legal issues. Now it's an assignment. The welfare committee is listening to visitors who have been called. In effect, it has to be said that, with such short notice, it is indistinguishable how powerful the jurists have been given confirmation that they will be meeting the welfare committee below. But there is another task to be faced with, as if this were not enough, and I insist that it is important to go on it because we have examples of how things have worked out when men have hurried too quickly, when governments have gone too fast. The project is that we need to get to that person to support these measures. Now, I'm not talking about legal clarity. I'm talking about evidence that convinces us that this is going a reasonable distance, either too far or too short, as far as possible. We still don't have that data. It's all that matters. We know, and there's been a number of times, that the front line, if you don't mind me calling it that, in our war with Covid has gone on considerably. A year ago, we began to place great emphasis on people's daily lives in order to protect our most vulnerable groups and to relieve the strain of our health. Now the situation is simply another. For some time, the message has more likely been that we were going to keep the virus, the virus, away from the Icelandic community. It follows that we make the latter goal different from our previous methods. I think we need to find this point. We need to keep up - to - date with what we really want and associate it with this reduction plan, just as much as we associate it with the release of this case. There's gotta be a line between here and there. In view of national action, because the data we have told us that it is from where the infection goes through, and where we see our front line being - between us is one community that needs a clear view of how to behave and what to expect. It is simply the last thing we can invite people to now. These two things I consider to be a project on the other side of the welfare committee now that she gets the case and then the Generals when it comes to settling the matter. That's the time line we're given because the first message is that this is a plan to resolve this matter as a law from the Council today. I haven't been informed why it's so urgent. I have quite a feeling, though, why we get this so late, two weeks after the judgment of the district failed to improve enough under the earlier regulations involved in this matter. My feeling is that since then, conflict may not be necessarily the right thing to do, because I don't know, but let's say a conversation, a conversation between the board of directors about exactly where this incision point I was talking about earlier. That's good, and it's important, and I have a clear understanding that there are three groups that do not agree, and even those within certain categories. But I have no understanding and no patience that the time it took to win the case in the hands of the Generals is removed from the Council to continue winning the case. I intend to take this bill and the discussion that I have been following today and to listen to the strong experts who have accepted invitations, or appeals, the welfare committee to attend a meeting in the evening; lawyers, ministers who come first and explain their work, lawyers from among our most powerful people, health experts, and others. After that meeting, I am prepared to shape my view of whether we need more time to resolve this matter. It's on the information that comes out there and the discussions that I believe we're going to win this case, but not because that date was fixed at some point last night. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u53	A respectable president. We're here to discuss one piece of many in our fight with the Covid epidemic. Yeah, I'll say one piece of a lot of people. The regulations and refinements that have been discussed here over the last few weeks may not solve all of the problems, although it does occur. However, I would like to say that these two weeks have been useful and have been successful in preparing the situation in that way so that another law has been established that has not been challenged. There has been no indication that things were going well after that Regulation. Now that the bill is in place, there's a bigger picture. It's been done better. There's more information and a plan in the future. I think it is extremely important that when we discuss each piece of paper for ourselves, we have the overall picture in front of us on how we're going to overcome the virus, that we don't overtrust in one thing above another. All of this needs to be considered in context. It is so important to know where the goal is to know whether the action is practical and to evaluate how practical it is for the operation to achieve its goals. Then we need to know: What is the need? What's the problem? How will we try to solve problems? How likely is it that we will succeed with these solutions? And as I came in earlier, what's the goal? The objective, as mentioned yesterday, is to get to a place where we can eliminate all the boundaries within the country. Now it's a plan. There is a schedule for vaccination, for vaccinations, for which vaccinations are to be taken, and for us to say that once the previous dose and age have been vaccinated, and for certain groups, this can be done. It all helps to see some light across the tunnel. There are some goals, and we now discuss how we are going to reach them. We've also said that the actions we've started with mean something. It means something to have vaccinated people. We're getting something for the limitations of the lives of people in the country, as well as on the borders and other things that have been done here. If I come back to the bill, there's a big difference between that and the law that was condemned illegal. Groups have been set up. The bill has been further analyzed and has been tried to reduce its impact on all of this. It has been tried to look for ways to be more moderate. And then we're going to go for it. The natural welfare committee will then discuss whether there is enough work to be done. I'm not gonna say anything about it, but at least this looks much better than previous plans. Finally, I just want to say that the construction of this project is everything, that it's the right thing to do. Then we must bear in mind that it is difficult for us who have grown up and lived in this country all our life, are English and have grown up in this culture, to understand the information and actions involved in Covid. We need to be careful that we are delivering the right message, the right information to people who are brought up in other cultures with different languages, and who come out of a totally different situation than we know. We need to make sure that everything is done correctly so that everyone is heading in the same direction. You're gonna need an active checkup. There must be an active monitoring and a targeted approach. It is often referred to as being carried out on borders in other countries and in other lands. Then we too can go to the checkpoint. It has a very strict surveillance based on the risk analysis. When a man performed himself in the police department, you were more alert to the drunk driving at night and on weekends. There is one thing that needs to be determined to do well. They'll also have to work on the fines as well. It is not enough to have a guilt warrant if it is not used, that it will take some long time and it will not work. Make sure it's not. I think it's possible to do it well and plan it well, just as it has been successful in organizing tests and vaccinations. I've studied it on Southnes today, and it's a good example of how health - care professionals are doing this, how they react. I know we can do that as well as in the surveillance process. I just know it. So the project is important, and it also makes sense how people are applying for such things and how they can manage them. I look forward to participating in the Committee, asking questions about the project, asking for details and all of that. Well, it's all about us sticking together. This should not be done in a way that causes people to feel that they are too far off, that they are even worse than they are, or that they are unremarkable. People need something to feel that they are doing what needs to be done, that it is not going beyond what needs to be done. It needs to be seen by the plan, to see foreknow, that it is not this endless uncertainty, information chaos, and so forth. I'm just looking forward to going along with this piece through a welfare committee, getting information about it, and seeing where it's leading us. Let me just remind you that we're just getting through the storm. We have to finish it together and we're on the right track.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u54	A respectable president. We in Iceland have actually done the best thing to do with the crown virus when we have appealed to the common sense and the public's cooperation in keeping the virus down. This is what I have emphasized from the beginning of this epidemic, and I have taken my heart to the recommendation of the DC and to the sharpening of the personal health control that we had made so well with at the beginning of the viral epidemic. It's been over a year. Looking back on viral distribution data, increasing viral transmission at a particular time, no one needs to doubt that precisely these personal resources have been most relevant in controlling rapid growth in society. Yesterday, plans for the removal of other disease measures, not of this personal nature, were introduced, I think we need to keep them in honor and make them perhaps beyond a time to come, but other treatment measures were added to the toolbox, as it has been called, in the summer's time. Then I refer to various ends, and to the assemblies, and to such things as have walked here in waves. Yesterday, however, plans were presented for the removal of all of these disease prevention measures in connection with the implementation of vaccinations in this country, which are doing quite well, at least when a vaccine is available in this country. It was a pleasant announcement and, of course, should have been available a lot earlier. the most vulnerable groups in this country, the most damaging groups of people that the virus is affecting - older citizens, those with underlying diseases - are convinced to maintain severe disease prevention measures as we know them today. The situation today in these words is better than often before, just much better. We are in the best position we have been since this pandemic, especially with regard to the currently completed vaccinations. Most of the more vulnerable groups in this country are now vaccinated and a great deal, if not the largest, if they want to make contact. It is also important to remember that the incidence of cross-border infections has rarely been lower than right now. In comparison, the incidence of cross-infection was four times higher in January. At the same time, very few vaccinees were vaccinated. That is why I must ask myself, " Why is the bill now, materially, not offered or accepted as the work that took place as a result of the change in disease laws at the time? ' I'd also like to point out in this context, because this is a bill to correct the conversion of Disease Control Acts allowing tighter measures on the border and more measures to be made to tourists or to come across the border to Iceland, in the last fall, there were action on the border. On August 19, a double screening was made. That message was also sent to take on normal life within the country. It might be said that if you were on a chat show, the idea of double screening on the border may have been sold to a great many, preordained that they would take on normal lives within the country. But it was wrong. They did not accept any normal life within the country. In fact, I had already pointed out that there was a misunderstanding, at least very confusing for the general public and perhaps not quite honest with the public, mixing these two things together, i.e. Conventional and national activities, however. Each one of these decisions is unique. It is possible to tighten your activities on a border without compromising operations within the country. It is also possible to put initiatives on the border and relax within the country. It is also possible to tighten within the country as well as to take ground - border action, and within the country it can be relaxed and relaxed. It's just two personal decisions. This does not automatically interfere with national activities, although cross-border action is intensified. We have an example now, some examples. I mention this because I hear that people have special expectations that when the border is tightened by this bill, they'll be law-enacted, they will automatically compromise, or they'll lead to detoxification, or detoxification, on national health laws. It's not like that. There has not been a specific donation or special reduction during national risk management measures in connection with this bill. Of course, the actions presented yesterday that are positive and that we should conduct and book ourselves, each one of us, are linked to the obvious; results to vaccination. These, of course, occur following vaccination. I think it's a good point to mention this. I also mention it here as important to me as a senator when it comes to taking a stand on this bill to have on board, but there is information about the precise mechanism for these actions, especially at this point when everyone is becoming vaccinated and the incidence of infections on the border is low. Let me mention what has been in the discussion of the disease crisis, and it has been noted that some individual has not been named in the media. I allow it, a respectable president, to express my deep disappointment over a discussion of that particular violation of the disease. It has even been called for in a discussion, even by people who have wanted to be taken seriously during the discussion, that they are mentioned by name, and that this person will be mentioned by name. I am very worried about this for moral reasons, but also because I think I sense here a lot of misunderstandings and overfaith in the transmission and fine sequencing offered by the Icelandic genetics. I don't think it's so that the serial analysis gives us information about some of the virus's fingerprints in certain individuals in such a way that it can be reported or precisely attributable to a specific person. I think there's something dangerous going on if they're going to draw that conclusion from the work that's under here. I just keep this information out of the news, but based on the news that you've been referring to a caseless person. It tells you, if there's a transboundary infestation in an individual with at least one person's hands at least two negative tests for this virus, although it may be so at the third screening if it has been infected. But I have to say that I have at least a no information on the possible transmission of infectious agents. I have felt that the news was being too excited and that it was not the case or that it was a matter of subject matter for good. What I have found missing in these cases is the information on how many suspected violations of the environment have actually resulted in infection. This may be indicated by the treatment of the case by the Committee on the Management of the Management Board, here in the treatment of the Parliament. I'd also like to mention that there is some question about the seriousness of the bill in actuality, where there is a high level of freedom from ban on cross-borders. Perhaps I should have mentioned at the outset that I had felt that there were two prime signals, one of the prime minister of health care and one of the prime ministers of justice, because these matters are not both under the health care minister, 2 g. Based on a change in the law of foreigners and granting Minister of Justice to issue a Regulation forbidding unnecessary travel to Iceland. On the other hand, there are so many and a lot of evasion from this ban when we travel to Iceland that I wonder if it really serves any purpose in establishing a law on this subject. It's lying, for example. for there will be a release to the officials. For some reason, they are viewed as unable to pass much away. I don't know why that is. So there are officials and horrified people and residents living here, foreigners who live in Iceland, all of whom will be excluded from this prohibition. Then someone might say: " It's part of the moderate. This is where we're going with the middle order. All right, I say. But would it really be good to open to such excessive use of force if they are so vague and begin to refer to almost anonymous individuals, if they could say so? In fact, it is also taking up, which is something that I believe should be of some concern, especially those who have wanted to protect people's freedom to travel between borders, a so-called personal analysis on the border, what has been called in English ◯profiling's and have been used in some countries to sift out potential criminals. Here, however, it is being tried to sift out and to determine who will possibly break the law. But by the bill itself it is not clear which methods will be used in such personal analysis. The objective of these measures has been specifically discussed. What is the goal of saving some in a facility of disease and forbidding some to come to the country? This is one of the most important assessments of moderate design, i.e. Target. Is the goal of a land free or something else? And what happens when the law fails after a few days? Will there be other circumstances? The main thing that I want to emphasize in this round is that it has always been important, and it will always be important for each person to watch his or her own standards, to be careful of his own protection, and to respect other people's disease prevention. I don't have time to review a legal point in this, but I'm expecting a discussion on the Committee. But there are some vague details in the text that the report itself does not explain, and I would feel that it would be better to be in the law rather than in the paper itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u55	Mr. President. I'm just going to enter this bill for a short change in the treatment laws and laws of foreigners that are available here. This time, I'll be my special representative at the moment. In the past, a welfare committee. A member of the Central Party Anna Colb Kolbrún Year's Árnadóttir. Of course, many things have been presented in the discussion today, but there is something I want to come on and face the procedure of this legal procedure and the speed and the flumbrush. Of course, this matter is not coming down from heaven at this moment. There seems to be a response to some unexpected events, such as the bill of a management class, which causes this bill to be run through in one day. If we now decide that this is a response to a judgment in which a god would stay in a sanatorium on April 5, then there is now a very good time to be set aside. Of course, we members of Congress are largely blamed if these laws fail. I just want to say on a general note that considering the social status, infection, and so forth, I think it would be reasonable to think that the council would give a little more time than the expected date for today's auction, even if only two, three, four days. I can't believe there's a problem with the virus. If this case is repeated again, as it did on April 5, it will be of no value to the council on this whole project. In the context of the speech speed now, it is important to me that this question is asked: Would the rules under consideration have affected the increased number of infections that occurred temporarily during the past weekend? That's how fast it looks. It doesn't look like it. The more familiar people have answered me, "I'm sure I'm not. " Just in this context, I think it would be reasonable for the council to give a little more time. Well, then I'm not saying that to counter treatments on the cosmology, but the general council has already got into trouble on this whole project, and I think we should avoid it. A few weeks ago, a request was made for a rapid conversion of air travel through an environment and transport committee in connection with a Covid response, and it was intended to be completed in a moment. The matter has not yet been delivered several weeks later, and of course, it is not expected that this would have had any significant effect on the battle against Covid. The bill also seems to be this way, and the regulations that have been submitted for introductions, which will be based on these changed laws, that it really doesn't care if people really believe that they are completely locked in the border, or if they are to go the other way and open and help, the bill gets on sections of relatively bad anger, perhaps in and because of the extent of the intelligence in the presentation, in the leading of their meeting of the Government in Harp yesterday. It seemed to put some song regional record in an information mess, unfortunately, once again in these areas. I'd also like to maintain the capacity of the color encoding system. Is this a month's deadline for the induction of a previously reported decision regarding the use of the color encoding system, or is there a greater change in the policy of using it? I have understood the government, so the plan is to use that system, even though the message from a pathologist may point to another. I'd also like to mention now that we're dealing with changes in the treatment laws that make me feel that we have to attack again to draw out the point. If the goal is a virusless society, which I hear of anything to be considered reasonable, but if that is the best goal, it is for the best, not half-hearted. It's been months since a psychiatrist spoke at a meeting that one way or another we would learn to live with the virus. The aim of achieving an unsuspecting society requires action that is not costly in terms of other aspects of society. Then you just look at the economy, mentally and physically, and more factors. I think we also have to ask ourselves that question, because in both cases here, in both of this bill's articles, we have a provisional principle that covers the period between April 22 and June 30, 2021: and then what? What will happen on June 30? If the situation becomes a significant spread in society, will some dramatic decision or action be taken? Today's discussion sounds like it. Yesterday, if I took the date correctly, however, I think that in the case of the Commission it would be necessary to have a conversation that must be on the subject of the question: and what then that time is over? But I'm just saying that I'm following it, and I support the fact that this is a provisional principle, where time is rather dosed but for a longer time. At the same time, I would like to point out that the date of this preliminary decision is certainly of little importance if the council felt that it would be a better consideration for the bill and for more benefit than it is now. I'm not gonna keep this for a while. I get to participate in the welfare committee activities that are expected to begin at the end of this discussion and to hope that this work will be of benefit.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u56	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize the changes to the CDC, No. 19/1997, through the SEC. Transporters are all Group members of the United States Group. We make the following adjustments: In 1st. ... isassignedtothe13rd. 3 mg 1st par. The law says: "A place on government roads, where a person may be infected or in isolation. " Two. We suggest the following changes to Article 13. The law: a. At 2nd. will be added to the new number, as follows: Dive in an environment or in isolation in a government - controlled place. b. Following the word "Englance" in 4 mgr. comes: stay in a place of infection. In the end, it is suggested in Article 3. that this law already comes into effect. If we look at this in context of the bill mentioned earlier, we will see here a case that is designed to give clear sources, enhance our understanding, and create more confidence. This bill appeared before the administration bill, which was discussed earlier, and in effect, it was a pressure to respond to the government. For three weeks it has really done nothing to respond to the judgment of the province. But they were, in effect, afraid of it. They preached to a meeting in Hörpa, which in many respects was very confusing but gave birth to the bill that will be discussed on a welfare committee at the same time. I think it is quite obvious that a pandemic of crown virus has opened the world's eyes to the importance that the disease - control authorities and authorities can react rapidly when our health is threatened. An enforcing Disease Control Act has been provided in 1997. In fact, they were last changed in February. At that change, the importance of a full review was considered, but only after the end of the current pandemic. At the end of March, the health minister published a directive requiring travellers from designated high - risk areas to be living in contaminants or in isolation in a concierge. In discussion of this, there were indications on the need to improve the need for such measures in the Regulation. It also happened that several cases tested the warrant for the court. As noted earlier, the County Court of Reykjavík decided to correct a lack of charge and to be canceled by the Minister's Regulation. Then it's been three weeks. Transporters of the bill believe that it is important that the disease - control authorities, or ministers, on the basis of the premium of the competent authority, be granted legal authority to issue a law required by tourists to be incarcerated or insulation by government authorities in an insurgent facility if there is evidence of an imminent threat to public health. The presence of transporters indicates that the need for a rapid action in a critical situation has been established. In view of this legal obligation, governments should take a moderate measure of decision - making, it is conclusive to show that the law will not be applied without any reasonable reason. So after this discussion, I suggest that the matter be referred to the welfare committee, but I would like to say a few words at the same time. We are struggling with the virus based on our main experts, the good trinkets, and, of course, the health - care professionals. It's done a miracle in the last few months. But when we feel that the division of the government has begun to decompose measures in the interests of disease prevention, we must step forward and produce what the authorities and the people of the country call for, and it is a bill of this kind that gives clear sources. Our role in politics is very important in these times. It is up to us to reduce the effects of the virus and prevent needless suffering from people. It is up to us to ensure that, despite all the people who live and work here, especially children, teenagers, and sick people, can enjoy freedom and that various professions that should have income and income from their work can. These include artists, who have actually been completely paralyzed in this process. Also, I can name travel services, restaurants, entire groups of people who could, by taking very strict care of the border, by living their lives much like those of a normal year's trip. It's going to be like summer, and I'm not as optimistic as the government is that it can be determined when all the limits will be lifted. It's just that there's not enough for us to make a date. I sure hope it works. But right now, we have to take this position firmly and secure the public within the country as much freedom as possible for the next month.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u57	A respectable president. I'm just saying, " Hooray." It's the gap the sun's been shining through here at the Senate Hall today, at least. what is involved in trying to meet us in our own country? Thank you. paritaprevir The Logi of Einarsson for this bill, which we will support. True, we made a change to the bill. That's why I'd like to ask him why. First of all, when the bill came to write, there were no speculations about how it has been accomplished by New Zealands and Australians and in Taiwan, where there is no flowers, where there is no waves, and everything goes like an anointed machine? 700,000 people were at the agricultural show the other day, with no masks and nothing. Haven't you two in the United States wondered about something like that? Haven't you considered taking a fee, like the changing people's Stockholm proposal, which is based entirely on the Australian way, that comers themselves pay for their own contours, not the Icelandic taxpayers? The thought was that there was, in effect, an incentive to try to stop the road, to reduce the number of trips, the unnecessary journey across the border while we were conquering this virus. I've been Ingi alone for over a year, but I'm very grateful that the members of the United States are down with us right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u58	Mr. President. This is where we're talking about changes in the control laws. The discussion of complete border closure has in itself taken place in many places, but in order to attack it, we would have to change the foreigners. So here we are making changes in the treatment laws, and we are primarily responding to a decision the government said at least depending on three or four weeks ago, when the virus was much lower in the community than it was now, but then held hands and did nothing. So this is an attempt to pressure the government to change the law so that it will be at least can be followed by similar rules as provided. It's kind of strange in this discussion that when there were any social infections, the government felt that, and said that it was completely compatible, though we know better, that if people came from countries where they were infected by 500 out of 100,000, they should be obliged to live in a cartelage. But now, when there is much more infection in the community, which may have been created because the government did not act quickly enough, they come with a bill in which all the mesh is grown and the fish are swimming through, and the infection is expected to be at 750◯1,000 per 100,000. So we have this bill, basically, forced the government into action that it was supposed to have taken over many days ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u59	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The son of Einarsson's Logi for the answer. As far as I can see, this is exactly what's involved in the Community bill, trying to ensure that even more disease prevention is involved. There would be no doubt if those who come to the land were not partial according to nationality or such. It is also classified as a disinfectant for all persons who are expected to go to a place of disease. By changing the bill in such a way as to meet the government's fluctuary and make no doubt as to what the concept of a diseasehouse involves - I think it's natural on the table that we can do it exactly as the lawgiver is permitted, so it would be in our working circle. But I'll admit it, and we'll all see what we want the government not to respond to a federal judgment the other day. It's just that way. It is not until today that the number of infections began to grow that we had some reaction. But again, I thank you for having the Conspiracy with us. We go further and we don't stand against the people who come to this country. We do not watch some color code system or whether the region has more or less infection. I see what you're doing. paritaprevir The Logi Már Einar Einarsson refers to this remarkable guidelines that are being introduced, on the one hand, 750 infections per 100,000 population per 100,000 verse 1,000 infections per 100,000. It's just crazy, and everyone must see that it can't be reached. We'd need, for example. to be infected with 300 a day in our small community every day of the year if we were going to be able to achieve it. It is as if by all means the situation is being prevented and the standard is being raised far above the efforts of Europe's Sun Fleas to raise the standard to such an extent that this is possible, not to mention any individual on earth.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u60	Mr. President. In general, the goal of our bill is to create a general and clear application guidelines that provide the disease practitioner with sufficient permission to act as he considers best, with tips, advice and memoirs, and the minister with the ability to establish a regulation based on them. I doubt to a considerable extent about the way the government works, whether the criteria should be 500, 750, or 1,000, because it can depend on so many parameters. Even though we pretend to know a lot in here, we're at least not as well as our best experts, so we also cannot accept a bill, at least preferably not, as instructed earlier, which binds the hands of the disease - control authorities. It may well be after all of this, then we need to make sure that it is better to accept it than not. But when you weigh these two bills together, this is far more likely to achieve what the health authorities want than what was discussed earlier. Finally, there are constantly new reports from experts who decommission this bill. If I get it correctly, the Medical Association declared just before that it looks bad on this government risk assessment, but it's not and should not be at our disposal to decide, it can be constantly changing from day to day and month to month. We have made provision wide and open so that action can be taken.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u61	A respectable president. Thank you. Logi A Einarsson's story. He clearly stresses that the solutions recommended in the Community bill are better than those on the health secretary's bill, which was recommended here earlier in the meeting. What I like to know, because the bill isn't much or far: Why not until now, more than two weeks after the judgment of a local court falls on a sickhouse? What was the explanation that the Conspiracy did not count as a reason to bring the matter up until now? Now it's U.S. Councilman, huh? paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir, chairman of the welfare committee, handling these matters. I know what you're doing. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson to see if efforts were made to get a welfare committee to file such a case, if the Union's assessment was that the government was going to fight on it?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-21-82.u62	Mr. President. Sometimes it is in life that you are optimistic and believe that the obvious is going to happen. The government immediately said after this judgment that they would sit down and consider how they would react. I think it was an Easter license, and we came here last week, but in the end, it just goes on to make you lose your patience if you don't have to, and if you don't have one, we'll see the virus going up, and the government has no answers. I remind you that a few hours before we set up the bill, I had an unsubstantiated interview at the highest level. The prime minister asked her exactly if we were expected to take action on their part. The answer was: Well, we're gonna wait and see. It was obvious then that we couldn't wait any longer, and we just had to bring our bill. Of course, they react so that an hour later, in one of the media, it is announced that it will be discussed the following day during a government meeting and then Harpa was rented, the drag was pulled out, and it was announced, but in such a confusing manner that the prime minister did not understand it, topv. Secretary of finance didn't understand. So things are somehow very complex and badly obvious. I think I'll be right about it if I answer the second question. The senator, so that it simply could not have met within the welfare committee so that the committee itself would provide a bill, as if it had been better and faster.
