ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u1	Borist has received a letter from the chairman of the House of Developments that Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson, a deputy of the National Assembly of the North Eastern Precinct for the Egilsdóttir of Eglian, has offered a premeditation and will be replaced by a council. Today, therefore, at the General Assembly of Helmmar Boggi Vaderson, 2nd Specialist of the Superintendent. He has previously taken his place at the General Assembly and is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u2	Borist has received a letter from the prime minister asking for every request in order to give written answers to questions on the subject. 1144, on legal advice, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, and on a threshing floor. 1122, for advice services, contractors and temporary projects, from Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u3	To answer these questions, Prime Ministers, Transport and Regional Ministers, Seafood and Agriculture Ministers, Health Ministers, Tourism, Industrial and Development Ministers, Social and Juvenile Ministers, and Environmental and Resource Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u4	Mr. President. This morning, reports show that Norwegian finance department has fined Big Bank DNB for $6 billion in the bank's sleazy defenses against money theft. This has to do with the bank's business with the Samherja. This is a very big and serious matter in Norway today, and it is a severe complaint against the main financial institutions. Two years ago, we had the prime minister of the government's operations following the striking release of Samerja's activities in Namibia and the risks that could arise from the reputation of Iceland, where Samherji is a large and powerful company in Icelandic context, a company that affects the entire community. Then the prime minister replied that it would be a review of what could be done to improve the legal and regulations needed to prevent such cases from renovating. The question is, What has been done since then? How have governments ensured that surveillance agencies have the strength and ability to deal with such extensive research? Does the local district attorney's office, which has the Samherjam for research, have sufficient financial resources and accelerator? Is the SEC just enough to cover Norwegian research? And has it been determined that Icelandic banks have not been sold under the same risk that is now being exposed in Norway?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u5	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. To answer, much has been done to bring these issues into generality. First of all, I want to mention that the decision as it is. To the Norwegian Bank DNB, a senator points to the smooth implementation of a law on money laundering. The Icelandic government has taken many measures to secure better protection against money laundering. The matter had been overdue, and although action was not taken quickly enough, Iceland had temporarily landed on the gray list of FAFF, which we discussed here in this hall. However, we were quick again because we have been taking action to keep a better watch on the money crap that this case is going to bring, which is why. A senator mentioned, a question about, but also to help ensure a more transparent Icelandic job life, including ... withtheregistry of real owners. It was also a national agreement that had taken too long to change for the better. So there have been things that have been done in this regard. I'd like to say, then, because of what. A member of the United States asked about the SEC that the Council agreed to agree on the unity of the Federal Commission and the SEC, which is my opinion and evaluation of many others, including bank managers, that this union helped to strengthen these two institutions and enable them to cope better with their surveillance role. In fact, in the work being done by the law, it was also shown that it would strengthen the traditional financial surveillance, as well as other sort of surveillance projects, such as the Samherja, that I am testifying to the financial management, having a strong institution in this field. So I believe that there have been some efforts, and I believe that this unity was to strengthen the vital role of monitoring.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u6	Mr. President. I disagree with the highest degree. Minister on that. Furthermore, the district attorney has said that they did not have enough money. The ability of the Contestant Commission has been limited by the laws of the government. Last time, the government put down the government's official office in the present form, and the consumer protection was greatly weakened. Mr. President. Here, the bank manager has stepped forward and spoke of the country's control of interests. Under these circumstances, the major economists of the country have taken over, and the labor movement has led them. Rather, the prime minister minimized those words last week and responded by calling for examples. It's a simple question: Has the highest. Is such an example being received by the prime minister from somewhere and called for it?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u7	Mr. President. I'd like to say, because I didn't get it in my case earlier, it's clear that the district attorney will be guaranteed the legal resources needed to complete this investigation. The case is still under way for the district attorney, still for inspection and investigation, and I have full faith that the office will carry out its task faithfully and as fully as possible. Yes, I called for examples because I think we have examples of the indiscriminate and excessive use of stakeholders. But I also believe that the clans here at the Generals are more sensitive to their respect than to allow them to be governed solely by interests. That's why I say when they say that the country is controlled by interest forces, they're likely to say that the political parties here are all under the control of interests. I won't agree to it. On the other hand, I know, just like that. A senator well knows that the interests of others are very often trying to overindulge themselves in various changes and issues. That's why I've put it to work and so have I. has been adopted here at the General Assembly for defense against conflict of interest because I feel that it is so important that we ensure an increased transparency on these issues. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But I believe in politics and politicians that they are not all governed by interests. [[The president calls.]] Of course, we would be in terrible trouble if we were.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u8	A respectable president. Now there's a group of microchips at 275,000. a month or 239,000 k. by tax. Then a group of seniors get only 266,000 bucks. in a month, and a thousand three hundred and thirty thousand years. by tax. The non-employment is now 307,430. The minimum wage in months and at months is 351,000. a month before taxation. So the government's latest play is 472,000. At a month plus 11% pension fund for a select group of unemployed and social workers, which is a cool case. That's why I'm asking the highest. Department of Social Affairs: How is this discrimination of payment met, and why? They're paying about 200,000 bucks. More in a month, which is great. But why isn't this available for all the others who have to try to reach $200,000? a month after taxes? It's going to the top. Minister and government, once again, to discriminate the worst and pay the unemployed 100,000 dollars. In monopolizement, which is a good thing, but leave the poorer and the older citizens behind. Why? You see, it's about the highest. The Minister and the government have left one group completely behind in the Covid-19 epidemic, and this is the worst place in the number of senior citizens, mainly of women who are not in the labour market and therefore have no pension rights. Women who stood in front of the stove, cared for the children and the home, and tried to live on 233,000 taps. a month's pay, a tax. So I ask, how do you get this out, and why in the world are you showing such discrimination with all kinds of numbers? And for what? Is there a survey of who can go the longest in the least?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u9	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this inquiry, in fact, asked a series of questions and questions. A senator I'm going to seek to answer. Well, for one thing, of course, we were offering and agreeing to a single payment for long-term non-employing persons who have been very long out of work for 14 months or more and who had become out of work for Covid-19. This proposal is put forth to meet those parties, not the thought of segregating older citizens and others who are unemployed. Then I'd like to say with regard to other groups that we've brought funding in a single payment form, both to micro-energy workers and to other groups. It is simply not true that we have done nothing when it comes to the worst group of older people because we accepted not long ago special laws that are beginning to have a positive effect and that have special benefits for the older citizens who are in poor standing. We have begun to see the grip of certain groups. Also, all the action we've undertaken, when it comes to changing tax and tax systems, especially subsidies and, of course, extending into all groups of society. The government has also been involved in working to map further measures for a group of elderly people and is not closed for the opportunity to complete some of them before the end of this election period, since we have cooperated fully with several schemes with older citizens and other bodies. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u10	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Department of Social Affairs and Child Affairs answers. He says the operation, 472,000. Plus 11% of the pension fund, if it's for social reformers. But social workers who have already found a job or been offered a job in this system do not get it because they do not fit in. They can remember a day when they became social workers. It can remember a day when they went to unemployment. The box is being squeezed in so that only certain persons can enter it. And don't you hate to know that when a person who's a social worker and has been doing that for a long time is trying to get a job, finding a job, even taking the initiative to find a job, saying, "No, you don't fit in the box, and you don't get it? This is discrimination.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u11	A respectable president. Because of what? A senator is talking about the effort to begin work and the individuals who can get a job through the radical measures and speaks of the government closing the box against these groups, of course, so the government just cleaned up and expanded the limits towards these groups. Yeah, that's the way it is. Senator. Work with support has always been there. We're paying more to create more jobs, and it's always been there for people on unemployment, but for the first time, we're extending it to individuals who have completed the right to reform in the past six months since the campaign went into effect, and as a result, they are involved in financial support. So we've never expanded the box, because that's why. A senator uses it as much as we have done in this work because circumstances are unprecedented. Of course, whenever we decide to reach out for six months in time, there is someone who has been six months and one day, so it works. [[The president calls.]] But to say that the government has squeezed the box, once it's increased by six months, is simply not true.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u12	A respectable president. In October 2020, the country's accounting and information committee returned a view to the bill of billing and convened Réjarvivir City and an accounting for the social status of hf. Consider the case of No. 1/2020. In English the conclusion is that it does not pass the law that Reykjavíkurborg has the accounts of a social network at hf. as part of their collection accounts in the processing process. For an explanation of this, it appears that the network of transport and rural authorities has been released on March 19, 2021, with the heading: Regarding the opinion of the head of accounting and information committees. It reviews the matter, and it is likely that some explanation has been made. This is as effective as it may seem to be in the local community of Reykjavík. A letter from the Department of Transport and Farmers reports, by permission of the President: In the context of this issue, it is well to insist that neither the Ministry nor the Office of Accounting nor the County Information Committee have made a decision to give relief to rural society in the preparation of a complex account, as it should be done. Sixty-one. Substitute governance.How many are there? In fact, such a change would likely never be made except by a change of law. Reykjavíkurburgs and prospective other rural governments have understood the announcement from March 19 in different ways and some do not really, though especially Reykjavíkurburg, in view of the understanding presented in the form of a committee. So I ask the highest. The secretary of transport and rural government, in view of the fact that the content of the report conflicts with the law and that the account of the city of Reykjavík, which did not contain inassibility, will therefore conflict with the law, whether it is the highest. A minister sees it better to explain on the Ministry Homepage or to see if there are any legal adjustments that are going to take place because the current situation is unacceptable. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u13	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Bergeth Threei Ólason for the inquiry. Therefore, as noted in his case, the Ministry took to his office and explained the situation, according to my opinion, in his letter. I don't know that we've had any particular opinion since then, but it's not too long since the letter went out and maybe just checking the results and responses of the local community before. I feel that there is still some misunderstanding about the interpretation of this case, to explain it even more before continuing. If legal adjustments are necessary, work would have to be done so that they could appear for the next winter. But it may be the first thing to explain them better if there is a misunderstanding about how this opinion is interpreted.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u14	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. No. 1,2020 is quite clear, as this says, by permission of the president: ▪ The values laid down for the 75th chapter. Treat of annual accounts, also applicable to the collection of municipal accounts. This means that in the integrated accounts of rural society, the same methods of assessment should be used as in the annual accounting of the A-part of the Company. Use a member of a community to be introduced into Part B, by Section 60. Substitution laws, other evaluation methods in their own annual accounts, while the joint accounts are based on, shall be submitted with a new accounting in which measures of assessment are consistent with the balance account. It could be an exception if Reykjavíkurburg viewed social clubs as just an investment society that was selling and buying property on the basis of local market conditions. That is not the case. This is quite serious when we have recently received reports of a 15 billion - year - old crash in Reykjavík, and according to existing plans, this case must be brought to the ground if it comes to the side of the city's annual account, all of which suggests that it is the case. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u15	A respectable president. I just want to reiterate my first answer, in my opinion, it was quite clear from the Ministry's letter. This is where a senator reviewed the results. However, if there is any doubt about it among the individual communities, it would probably be time to try to explain it further and even call for the response of the rural communities that had been affected by these machines before men took any further action or possibly preparation for some adjustment and first come to know what the common understanding of everyone is, whether they have a common understanding of this matter, which I thought was at the time quite clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u16	President. The European Commission's legislation says that formal communication and meeting together as well as informal communication should be recorded if it is important between the Council's recruitment and non-participants and prime ministers set up rules on registration. Rules on the registration of informal communications set up on April 18, 2016, are granted permission of the President: The Ministry Department of Communicators as well as non-employees shall have a list of relevant information on issues under the department. By informal communication, these include phone calls and meetings, which describe attitudes or information that are considered relevant for the management of a Ministry case or that is considered important for matters related to issues under the Ministry, as the attitude or information does not appear in any of the other recorded data. The timing of communication should be recorded between each person and the content of the information in question. Now it's got the highest. The prime minister said that she did not know what ministers or politicians would pressure the government in the Faeroes. So I would like to start by asking, " Has this changed? Have the prime minister now come to know the Icelandic minister? ' Has a minister studied it since a statement was made about the other day? Then I would like to ask about the registration of formal or informal communication, which is a prime minister's rules. What minister was responsible for any communication between the Faeroes and the Icelanders? Does a minister know if there is a registration of the interaction described by Høgni Hoydal as the pressure of Icelandic politicians, saying not to follow money? Is that where we're talking about a sea emissary, for the matter is about a fishing business? Are we discussing a financial minister, because this is a holding on companies involved? Or is it a foreign minister where this is definitely foreign?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u17	Mr. President. Because of that part of the query date. A senator who undertook rules on the registration of formal and informal communication, I want to inform it here, as I believe, in fact, was made in my written answer to any inquiry. The senator, that each minister, and every member of the Ministry, is responsible for this registration. That would not be a problem. A senator sending a written inquiry to the Ministry on how this registration is conducted. I have returned that information in answer. For the question of the why. I want to say: "As I understood Høgna Hoydal during the interview that he was having on a show on the TV, they were involved in the changes in the fish management system in the Faeroe Islands, and these changes were adopted at the Requisite Legal Assembly on December 15, 2017, i.e. Two weeks after my government began. And what had been done in the government on these matters before my time - I simply cannot answer. Hence, they need ministers who sat in that government to answer. On the other hand, I personally read news of what was left to the minister of foreign affairs in that government, the Supreme Court. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, God-given Þór Þórðarson, that he had had a conversation with the Faeroe dean of that matter, so I think it could be investigated. On the other hand, regarding the Hoyvík Convention, which was later proposed to be dismissed by the Offeys, it was not a secret, and it was shown in the case of many of us that we objected to that resignation by the Continents. There is no such thing as communication and even communication. discussed the Hoyvík Treaty and the importance of ensuring good communication around the matter at my meeting with the Faeroe Law, held 2018 at the Ursau in the Faeroe Islands. [[The president calls.]] There may be two lines of communication that have taken place over two matters, and other things did not arise in my government.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u18	President. I asked about the communication with Høgna Hoydal, where it was being suggested not to follow the money. I felt that the answer was not completely clear to me on the subject of communication, any minister in that relationship. As noted in an unprepared inquiry earlier, with the president of the United States, Logi Einarsson, we should not be under the control of interests. The political parties should not have that appearance. But this clearly makes the point, if it is political involvement in such special interests between countries, that it is possible to use political strength or force to influence foreign affairs. I don't know that this was introduced to the Foreign Affairs Committee, but these are expected to be important foreign affairs, which should all be introduced there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u19	Mr. President. Hv. A senator complains that my answers are vague, but they cannot be clearer. In view of my not being a member of the 2017 government, I don't know what communication took place. I'd like to point out what has been reported in the news about the communication of Iceland's foreign minister to the Faeroe Islands on the fishing law, but the news can be agggravated. A senator is also approaching. What was presented in my case, however, is also very clear and has been reported in press reports from the Council, discussing the Hoyvík Convention with the best - eyeed authorities. The Icelandic government often expressed their view that it was important for them to hold onto that covenant, and that was after I became prime minister. So I don't think this can be all that clear. Hv. A senator asked earlier where such conversations would be conducted. It is customary that the National State Department of State has discussed such relationships, en Høgni Høgni was in charge of this time, if I recall. [[The president calls.]] Hv. A senator must direct his inquiries on these matters to those in the management of 2017. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u20	Mr. President. I have to say, I'm a little worried these days. My concern is mainly to what developments are becoming inflation in this country. There has been no higher prices for eight years at this time, and it has been far beyond the expectations of fortune - tellers and far beyond what the Navy has expected in its predictions. Last month the late bank manager said that in response to the inflation, much of the failure of the gang last year, but now rising again, he hopes to master the inflation with a lower price in stores, I think I did pretty well here. However, it is clear that in the small retail price all kinds of costs, e.g. the high cost of transport, the cost of raw living, has been negotiated for a number of compensations. It is a question of whether it is a heavy burden to put it at the store to deal with these inflation pressure all, as the Navy calls out. My question is, is the highest. The prime minister agrees with this analysis by the bank manager on how we can work against inflation? It's the highest. The prime minister agrees that store prices need to be reduced, or that specific measures need to be taken? Is the responsibility there? Is it not true that the specific measures that need to be taken are an increase in growth?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u21	Mr. President. First of all, I can agree with what. A senator's concern is the rise in in in inflation. When considering the current level of prices, it is a home and a meal. However, it is true that generally predictions that in the year, inflation will resolve, and, of course, the year's strength should be supported by this trend. A senator came in. What can be done? Hv. A senator noted that the store is strongly laid down not to raise prices for any particular reason. There certainly is one very important factor. Then it is obvious that real estate status will be very important. That's where we really need to review the situation. This was one of the things being done. In the leading of biographies, a special team was set up for the development of a housing market. A significant increase in policy development and the overview of the position has been made. This does not change the fact that housing conditions are very difficult today. We read almost daily reports of how an apartment will soon be sold and, in fact, fighting for each property. I think there's a really big factor we need to look to. The house - to - house affairs will be on the front of the next meeting in a national economy that will gather members of the workforce and representatives of the government, the Federal Guards, and the rural areas. That is a major aspect of what we need to look to. Then we will ask: What else can the bat do? Of course, there are other underlying factors that need to be looked out for when it comes to managing growth, but I think we're in the place where there's good reason to watch very carefully the development of cases because this is not a good development.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u22	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answer. I'd like to state that a New York City real estate deal is an absolute venture capital investment. This is in the declaration of the financial status committee of 14 April 2021, which is being made of the uncertainty of the state of real estate. It says, by permission of the president: In the present growth environment, it is necessary for creditors as well as creditors to be aware that significant changes in the load of unsecured loans may be made. Of course, it also holds credit. I have to say, Mr. President, I think it's going to be a real mess. Rarely have so many young people flocked into the real estate, and I am very concerned that the rate of interest, payment, is much higher than the borrowers have expected. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm afraid this matter will be of little use in some form of opinion and committee. [[The president calls.]] It's just that there's been a little bit of a failure here. What will a minister do in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u23	Mr. President. I thought it was my fault. A senator will be more dramatic in a second question. The fact is, the economic regime during this terms, whether in terms of money policy, financial management, or employment market, has been extremely successful. What a fine compliment it is for the way he has handled matters! This does not change the fact that even if we have been successful, we have good reason to worry when we see the inflation up. What I think is very important to do in it - except what I mentioned before is that domestics do not raise prices over reasons very important - it is to examine the specific housing market where many measures have been implemented, share loans to support buyers of the first estate, increase support for social housing, one of the factors that are important for maintaining housing market stability, and to have clear housing policies. That's one of the main issues we've been discussing on the field of national interest, and I think that's a major part of policy development ahead of us in this situation. However, it is not that I believe that there is a reason for me to find big words about where to go. Well, I believe that the late held bank has done a great job so far and will continue to do so. Thank you for this extra minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u24	Mr. President. The station is breached, declared at the highest level. The EEA's new EEA emissions from 2018-2019, showing that emissions of greenhouse gases on the direct responsibility of Iceland, fell together by 2% at this time. This is good news, but the little one will be Vöggur that the contractions should have been more intense. And it must be acknowledged that I find it questionable to link this recession directly to the government's actions against climate change, such as the Supreme Court. The Environment Minister has made a public arrangement rather than merge and dissociate what is. Mr. President. You see, when it comes to talking and information in climates, there is an issue of information, and it's serious when it comes to the highest level. The Environment Minister asserts that this recession is a result of government action in the case of the EEA's preliminary analyses showing that at least two-thirds of the contractions have come from transport due to a reduction in the number of tourists in the latter part of the period. So I ask: How much of this contraction is involved in direct government action and how much because of outside factors?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u25	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator very much for his inquiry. This is the final result of the 2019 climate accounting. A senator witnesses. It shows that we can all agree on that, as she quoted my words, that the stillness has been interrupted, but such a recession has not occurred since 2012. I'm among those who want to see more contractions and faster contractions, and that's what we are. A senator agrees, but this is still in my opinion, and in the opinion of the people I have discussed this in the system, a very strong indication that this will continue. That's exactly because of the diagnosis as what it is. A senator mentioned, this was not just because tourists had decreased their numbers but also because other items within the country caused a contraction from road transport. Hv. A senator correctly mentioned that there are probably two thirds of visitors and one third of visitors, and we can likely conclude that this is due to government action. But there is more to the road transport that is falling apart. It is also a recession on waste, and it is a result of government action. It may not necessarily be the Ministry itself, it's those who handle the waste, but it's part of this whole package. I mean, we'll see contractions next year when it comes to so-called F-gas or fluorinated gases. It was a peak this year's increase because it was a huge import seven years earlier in 2012. It will go down to the next year and very quickly into the year 2030 and faster than expected, precisely because of government action. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u26	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. Let's get this straight, just like the highest. Ministers listed here, since 2014 the emissions of Iceland have been beyond recession. And the mean release was also higher than that in 2006-2010. Sad to say, cutting down emissions more than the recession has been on all these years is not enough. It is also true that according to the government's climate Action Programme, by means of road transport emissions, between 4% and a total of 19% from ships and 8% from harbors of 2018 to 202019. So the numbers now on board would be 2% and 4.4%, so the government is a little far away from its own operation programme and its own objectives when it comes to reducing emissions. Therefore, Mr. President, I ask: How is this small reduction in emissions, which is expressed in preliminary numbers and is largely due to external factors, not because of the direct operation of the government to correct the emissions of greenhouse gases, our global commitments? How do these figures fit in with them?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u27	V.E.G. President. The figures presented here depend on our commitment to the Kyoto Convention. For some time it has been realized that we will not fully remember being within the bounds of our appointment there, unfortunately. It has been observed many times, both here and elsewhere. This is because the governments that were here before the governments that are now did not take enough of it and not take firm measures that might otherwise have made us to live up to our commitments under the Kyoto Protocol. Then there's the Paris convention, which is 2,212030, where we can't see one of our plans other than that we will live up to that commitment. It takes time to turn away from the path we have been on and into the path we need to be on. [[The president calls.]] I believe we've taken our course in the right direction now and the turn's on.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u28	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a proposal to be agreed on by the State Department's Committee on Council Reconfirmation of the Co-ordination of the European Commission No. 235/2020 of the change in XXII. Annex to the EEA Convention, i.e. That's right. That's right. The committee has discussed the matter and has contacted Gautur Sturluson from the State Department and Sigurbjörg Stella Guðmundsdóttir frá the atvinnuvega of - og nýsköpunarráðuneyti. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision of the joint Commission No. 235/2020 of December 11, 2020 about a change in X-ray. Annex to the EEA Convention from May 2, 1992, including the Convention Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council No. 2017/828 of 17 May 2017 for a longer term conversion of Directive 2007/36/EC to share shareholders. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 7. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted. The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir was absent from the case. Under this opinion, publications are written. Councilmen Sigrider On. Andersen, president and executive of the Committee to Resident, Trausti Trali Silja, Brontís Dögg, Gunnarsdóttir Bragi Sveinsson, Logi Trausti Friðbertsson, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjölófótir, and Shilggg Dögnsdotsdótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u29	Mr. President. I hereby commend the National Committee's Committee's committee's committee's list of proposals for interpretation of the decision made by the European Commission No. 19/2020 of change in IX. Annex to the EEA Convention, i.e. Budget service. The Commission has discussed the matter and has contacted Gautur Sturluson from the State Department and Elísabet Júlíusdóttir from the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision of the joint Commission No. 192/2020 of February 7, 2020, of the change in IX. Annex to the EEA Convention on Financial Services, May 2, 1992, and enter into the contract of the Council Regulation and Council Regulation No. 2015/760 from 29 April 2015 on the European long-term investing fund and the dispensing of Commission Regulation 2018/480 from December 4 December 2017 on improvements to European Council Regulation and Council Regulation No. 2015/760 in terms of technical monitoring standards for financial consequences which have the sole purpose of protecting against the risks, adequate life span of the European long-term investors, market assessment criteria for potential buyers and the value of the property to be disposed of and the species and characteristics of the general investors. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 7. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted. The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir was absent from the case. Under this opinion, publications are written. Senators of the State Department, Sigríður Á. Andersen, chairman of the case, Trausti Trali Guðmundsson, Brontís Haraldsdóttir, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Logi Trausti Friðbertsson, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjoffóttir, and Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gunsdursdótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u30	Mr. President. I would like to recommend to the National Committee's members the Commission's list of changes to the bill to correct the adjustment of the law of measures following a deal with the United States on the defense zone at the Chefjordur Airport, No. 176/2006, i.e. violation of rules. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted Gísli Rúnar Gíslason of the Ministry of State. The bill points to adjustments to legal requirements. 176/2006, which includes specifically disposing of laws no longer having a role to which they are completed. The change to recovery of Article 4 has been proposed. The law that deals with the role of the Keflavour Airport. (Kadeco) legally indicated. The role of the Development Society in completing the civil use defense site was the result of sales on the last holdings of the society's administration. Work has been in charge of the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs to update the new role of the Development Society and will be primarily subject to the development and coordination of a local organization at and around the airport in Cheflavík in cooperation with Isavia and the rural communities there. The committee suggests a technical change and not intended to exert a material influence on the bill. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: 1st Volume 1, paragraph 2. 1st par. Notes: The secretary responsible for the security issues shall include a description of the external boundaries and the internalisation of the region into airport (field A) and safety areas (regional area B). 2. Section 4. Put it this way: Instead of the words ◯ in the areas specified in Article 2. and 1st. Article 4 of the 1st sentence. Section 5. The law comes: in the area of the city. 2.g. 3. The word "super" is an advertisement of the 2nd" paragraph. ... goout. The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir was absent from the case. Under this opinion, publications are written. Andersen, president and spokesman, Trausti Trali Guðmundsson, Brístí Haraldsdóttir, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Logi Trausti Friðbertsson, Rós Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörnóttir, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gögnsótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u31	Mr. President. I want to get into this matter briefly, which is in itself very nice. There's a point where the Keflavour Airport Development Society, this Kadeco Company, is getting a new role in the future policy development and analysis of opportunities in the old defense area. At the same time, the original role of this company is mentioned here, i.e. selling the defense property, the real estate agency we're talking about here. Now there was considerable value in the real estate that the defense team left behind during the departure of 2006, and I wanted to ask him why. A senator knows if there is some sort of overview of all those assets. What was the source of these possessions, and who were the buyers? It is only natural to have a perfect transparent state in such property companies, also to bring down voices that have been heard, including on the South, some of the property, and an abnormally many, have fallen into the hands of certain people. I know what you're doing. A senator has an overview of this, who bought, at what price, etc.? If not, count it. A senator would not naturally show such information so that a perfect transparent state would be exposed to the sale of the items left behind by the defenders during the evacuation?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u32	Mr. President. I don't have it all in my head that turns to the market and to the value of the goods sold after the military left in 2006, but I think it's only natural. A senator can call for it in some way. I can't recite it in this chair one, two and three, but the question is natural and the inquiry in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u33	Mr. President. Well, I'm not expecting to have sex. A senator knows exactly, I agree absolutely. But it's good to hear from it. A senator says he agrees with me that this is supposed to be a prerogative. I think it's very important that, as I said earlier, there were considerable assets on the road, considerable assets owned by the Icelandic state after the evacuation of the defense force and was then sold. There is something else I would like to introduce to this matter, asking why. The senator on. So now it is time for property and construction rights to be settled after organizational work, and everything is going to happen in a transparent and open manner. Of course, I am happy, and I also stress that this will be most effective because there is a natural sense of unemployment that we need to overcome. But what I wanted to do was come in with what I wanted to do. A senator is the environment, the pollution. Now it is known that there was considerable soil pollution following the evacuation of the defense team and I have the EEA information that no overall environmental study has been carried out on the environment and the pollution issues, at least not from the EEA. Some study of the general engineering firm was conducted in cooperation with Kadeco, but the information I have from the EEA is that no pooled study has been conducted. Is it not reasonable that such tests will be carried out, especially in view of the fact that these areas are now being developed, started construction, soiling, and other activities before you go to work, so that there is no further pollution in the area than is known in certain areas? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u34	Mr. President. Again, the person standing here is not the front of a cage in this discussion or has come close to it in that respect. But as it turns out, what's wrong? A senator would naturally consider these matters. I know what to do at the airport, I can take it as an example. That is exactly what has been delayed because there was an oil - building soil that had been near a fuel supply that needs to be removed before implementation. It is not unusual for these things to be checked. If unwanted pollution is present, it must be normal to work in a way that meets standards. Granted, as the years have passed, the demand for these objects and security requirements, such as oil traps, and so forth in airports and airports, and so forth. Perhaps it was in a different place some decades ago. However, it is only natural that this should be examined carefully and that information should be taken into account whether something needs to be corrected and whether soiled needs to be changed. These are the things we want to be clear, that this threat at least not in any way a water bubble or anything else that might be involved in such a discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u35	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion in particular, but there are two things I just wanted to make a decision. The role of this community is now being altered by the Keflavor airport, which was formed at the departure of the defense team on October 1, 2006, known as Kadeco. This task is completed, as mentioned here, and is now taking on a new role. A simple rule on this subject is here being made clear and permanent. Of course, I'm glad to find out that Isavi's formal cooperation, the town of Smokenes and the town of Southnes for organization, development and application and the market of a country owned by the Icelandic State at the Cheflavour Airport and its surrounding areas, says the report. Here, for a very valuable land, it is designed to become more valuable in the future, simply because of close proximity to the airport and all the services needed to perform in that area. The demand for this country will, of course, increase in years to come. That's why it is very important to me that there is a good partnership with the local community that has an interest in protecting and, as I said before, there will be a bit of a work structure to be seen when it comes to assigning these areas and planning the area. There will be servants who, hopefully, will be able to provide employment in that area where unemployment is very high in Southnes and a serious situation there in business, so we just put it exactly as it is. Then I'd like to come to what I mentioned earlier in an anticipating policy and analysis of opportunities. This is natural to the competitiveness of the airport and also to be careful about the competition between parties at the airport. Isavia is a very large and large company in which there is a great special position in the area, but there are also other smaller companies who are interested in it and who have been working on air payment and other things that need their natural space. So when it comes to this, it is important to look to a competitive viewpoint. In contrast to that earlier, I only came to the environmental factor when it becomes part of the project. It is known that there is pollution in this area, especially in so - called Nikels. There, soil was removed and transferred to a region called Dye-5, near Sta·neiʹsi, where soil is contaminated. It is also unclear whether all pollution has been achieved in the Nikkel region, which has now become a construction site in the city of Réjanes. I specifically checked the EEA to determine whether a specific and complete environmental study has been conducted after the elimination of the defense forces, and particularly with regard to the pollution issues. I received answers from the Agency that the Agency was not aware that there were studies in the region, i.e. pooled studies. They weren't in the Agency's custody. I think it's kind of reprehensible. In 2007, the EEA communicated with the general engineering agency, which was doing specific environmental research on the behalf of the developing society at the time. There, the Lab sought guidance from the Agency for research at the time, and the Agency proposed further groundwater research in the region, and particularly as a result of waste disposal on the Central Sea. And now it has also been reported in the news that there was lead pollution in water on the Ásbek, which is traceable to the water layer, and then pollution has been found in some old dumps where there is now a construction site. It is thus known that the defenses left pollution in this area and even severe pollution in certain local areas. It is very special, I must say, Mr. President, that this has not been a complete assessment of this on the part of the EEA. Of course, the Agency was to remove this area when the defense team left. There have been studies and the general engineering lab, as I say, conducted research on the Kadeco Development Society, but I don't know that these studies were specifically taken by the EEA. The question, then, is this regarding the research that has been conducted there: Were they sufficient? There is knowledge of pollution in this area, and it can affect the local organization when it is taken to other uses, exactly what the developing society is supposed to do and go to that work. That's why I think it's necessary to answer if adequate checks have been made on the pollutants there, drill holes, etc. to adequately examine soil samples. I am stressing that this will be examined in the work that the developing society is expected to do. Then I'd like to step in on what I mentioned earlier about the earlier roles of the developing society that was selling these real estates, the real estate agency that the Society was able to handle on behalf of the government funds after the defense team left. There was considerable value in local property, as we know, that the defense team left behind and agreed that the government funds would take over. Then you ask yourself, " Is it not normal, now that this factor is over, to have some kind of report on the value, exactly what was available for those assets, who bought them, and at what price? ' They're supposed to have complete transparency in these real estate transactions and just to put down some rumor that abnormally large amounts of these assets were involved in the same parties. They may have paid only the highest price, and it is only natural for them to happen. I would have thought very natural that now that the developing society finishes its role, there will be a report on this so that it will have perfect transparency. In this regard, Mr. President, it is, of course, a good bill in the sense that the role of the developing society is being sharpened. I really hope that the work ahead of us will be strong and good, and there we will be able to do organizational work that will contribute to the competitive environment for the airport activity that lies ahead of us and that will have a good look at the main stakeholders on the South Sides and around the Cheflavor Bay Airport and especially on Smokenestown and Southnestown. All of these look to this area to grow and thrive, to the benefit of local inhabitants and, of course, those who come to use the services that are very important to the airport activities.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u36	Mr. President. I recommend here to the Committee of Public Education and Education Committee for a bill to legalize the change of Cation, Prohibition, et cetera. It focuses primarily on corrective measures when there is a ban on expression. This case has already been used here at the Council. It was discussed at the last assembly and received excellent publicity on the subject. A top-of-the-art Board of Education, but it wasn't finished and went to the top. Then the minister of justice has been on the same case in the fall, and this has been for the treatment of the committee in the winter. The bottom line of the matter, as noted in the report, was that a prime minister's committee made a recommendation in this case, a committee designed to examine general reformation laws in the media expression and information freedom. The proposals for this event came from there, and then the Court's committee took over the matter and made the following adjustments. The matter has been presented only in a somewhat positive way by all who have discussed it in the handling of the council and in the prehistoric setting, so there has not been much disagreement. To make a long story short, you go easy. A pan-European and educational committee will agree with this, but suggest a slight technical adjustment made in an adjustment form in the opinion presented here by the Committee and is referred to as follows. I don't think there's any reason to look into this, but the point of the case in its original form is basically three. First of all, it is assumed in 1Co. The bill that when a ban is asked for publication or expression, it will be an obligation, not to make a choice, but a requirement for temporary bail. Secondly, there are in paragraphs 2 and 3. the bill of the bill means that when cases arise, all treatments are being accelerated so that sooner or later, according to legal laws, the result can be guaranteed. Quick treatments are expected in accordance with specific guidelines. And then on the 4th. more extensive sources are expected to judge improvements in such cases. I'm not going to go over this any more, chief. Mr President, I'm just going to refer to the committee and the bill as it already is. Under committeed literature, in addition to my committees of the General and Education Committee, Páll Árnadóttir, Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir Thorsson, Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir Gunnardsdóttir, Olga Margrét Cilia, in advance, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Steinunn, Þóra Bárnadótir, Fishur Gunalsdótir, and Þorsteinn Sæmundsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u37	President. First, I'd like to record it at 73rd. The constitution says that censorship, or other comparable barriers to freedom of expression, must never lead to law. I'd like to mention this because it's always serious when big firms want to put a barrier to freedom of expression and media coverage, as I've been in this chair before. As with other rights, freedom of expression can be limited in the interest of a universal rule and by law. The purpose of this bill is to ensure that a court order of legal action for which the businessman has agreed will be rushed, although I would have wanted all such cases to be imposed on media coverage always went directly to court. The Piratars gave a bill at the 148th Act of Legal Affairs, but it needed a closer examination, which was done and the Ministry has submitted this bill that is being discussed here today. But the bill of Pirata went further and, by permission of the president, it was impossible to ground a ban on media media media communication without the ruling of a regional decision. The objective of the bill was to ensure that no rights would be possible for the legal candidate to stop the media' communication on material without court access. Track No. 31/1990 allows a businessman to accept a ban on media coverage if a request is considered to meet the requirement for the formality of the law. The bill currently does not limit the administrative authority. Rather, it says that if the ban is charged with the ban, it should be treated by a local court to comply with a law on prompt treatment. The reason that the Piratars produced the bill back then was to respond to the fact that HoldCo was under ban at all the hours of the swelling of Glicris. This happened two weeks before the General election and realized that the subject was important to the public. Freedom of speech is spent in the Constitution and in international covenants. Of course, this may be limited in protecting privacy, but the impairment must be considered necessary in a democratic society. In terms of the granting of the county's authorization, it is stated in the regulations of local regulations, regulations, etc. that it is enough to meet the requirements of the request, but it is not expected that the county should specifically assess the need for the application of the ban on the media coverage should be considered necessary in a democratic society. In the currently existing bill, the county authority is not limited to any degree which means that if a similar matter as Glitnis HoldCo occurs in the future, the county can still impose a ban on news coverage if the formalities of the request are met. The only change is that if, by permission of the president, the U.S.A., it has objected to the rise of law enforcement on the basis of combating rights protected by 73 st. The constitution should be handled according to the XIX requirement. section of the Treaty on private matters, as appropriate, not requiring the approval of the court's attorney for the urgency of the case. So, yes, this bill is certainly a step in the right direction, but it does not change that a businessman still has the authority to accept a restraining order without taking into account the content of the request, but my hope and Pirata is, of course, that quick treatment regulations will be provided that the public will not have to endure the fact that a large company can delay in a longer release of information that has much to do with the public, and especially in the context of the timing of the discussion and when it is to appear.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u38	Mr. President. Public information is important to every democracies community. There, the media plays a key role, including by providing government support and independent information to the public. In this context it is the responsibility of responsible governments to create an environment in which the media can operate on these grounds and at the same time provide vital information. We may remember most of us who was created by this case, as is explained in the bill with the bill that was a prominent legal case, as it says, where the county's law against a specific procedure, and then the courts rejected the restraining of the ban. Then, in the capital area, the county's ban on Glitnis HoldCo is called on to demand that the released Society practice ehf. and Reykjavík Media ehf. published or other Glitnis data-based news coverage. The current government has been well on the road to these issues, e.g. with new information legislation which allows public access to information from the administration and now, with improved bans against the media, the media. It is therefore unacceptable to stop a news transfer that has a single requirement for public communication. No matter who applies the requirement, whether it is individuals or big companies, it should not be so simple to place a stone in the media street. Then we're on a dangerous journey that I believe none of us really want to do. When we trust the independence of independent media, we trust democracy. In the bill of this which pertains to the regulations of quietation, bans, etc. has led to the freedom of expression and the importance of supporting and strengthening democratic discussions. In view of the editorial independence of the media, this is a cause for joy, for the least we would like to see here in Iceland an opportunity to interfere with informed discussion. As I told them, this case was rooted in a committee appointed by Prime Minister Jakobsdóttir Jacobs, in the spring months of 2018, to reform legislation in the field of expression, media, and information freedom, including. ... advisingwhat I said here. I'm not going to have this much further, a respectable president. I welcome the changes presented here, and I'll improve the media position with regard to immobilisation. I'm glad that the media in Iceland can assume that their discussion will not be stopped and that we will be building for the support of the transparent and enlightened debate.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u39	A respectable president. This is a matter that was only discussed with 1st. and, as it were, we've talked a lot and a long time about, i.e. The bill for the Council of Congress by a subsequent change, and the subtitle is gender ratio. As members of the committee, we were contacted by all sorts of people who were the prime committee who proposed the matter in the fall and also supported an audience on the committee's transport. The occasion is a 2008 total view of equal positions and equal rights of women and men and equality that began in 2019, but the results of that work were presented in a government consultation in July 2020. In connection with this review, the prime minister requested that the approval of the council be investigated, whether we could get together to change the General Assembly to cover the sex laws covering the sex ratios of committees, committees and members of the council, i.e. that they would all be equal. It's actually a very short bill. I'm just gonna go over here on the principle of the 1st and 2nd paragraph. The bill at the Committee to gather more parts of the General and Education Committee. Of course, the General Assembly had been highly criticized for not being sufficiently equal when the council committee was elected, and the bill says that it was an attempt to form when one woman and eight men were elected to a budget after the 2017 election, and the woman is the one here. Being the only woman on that committee, like any committee, was a slight variation, but I had sat on that committee before, and the discussion changed considerably, which I could clearly find. In between 1 and 2 pars. The bill is suggested that at the election of the Presidency Committee and the Synod Committees make sure that the proportion of the sex is the same as the results of the General elections and the gender rates offered by members of the Parliament. As we discussed the matter, it was observed that in view of the special position of the prime committee, it should be recommended in an indistinguishable way for the abnormal sex ratio and that the proportion of women would never be less than 40%. But in the greater part, we say that the execution of the regulations is, of course, limited to the gender rates of members of the Parliament, which are at the General Assembly at one time, and we can in fact never have members of Congress to appoint specific members, whether it is prime committees or other constant committees. We can see this here at the council today, where there are more women than men in their ranks or more men than women, and the nature of the case is reflected in the commission. However, there is the viewpoint behind the election of the prime committee and the election of the fixed committees that the composition of the council reflects this strength of the Party, and we have tried to enforce what has been called the principle of having a gender ratio where possible. It was also noted that there are also more viewpoints to consider than sex, e.g. the field of interest for us senators or where our strengths lie. There was a view of 2k. The bill ensures that there is a gender ratio to the first commission election after the end of the General election, but not for the change in the commission in the season. I still think it's something that we should always try to think about if we can have it as normal, even if we're changing in the middle of an elected period. In addition, we need to ensure equal gender ratios to the switch between the Chairmans of Congress, as well as the vote of the Chairmans of the International Committees. Furthermore, it must be ensured that the presidents of committees and vice presidents are not of the same sex. The greater part shows that the principle is not limited to the selection of committees during the First Parliament after the election. Rather, it should be noted that the sex ratios mentioned in the committees in the terms of the election period and that the order of the committees will be changed. Then you need to consider the interaction between the standards of the bill and the percentage election using the d'Hondt method, as is 82. Parliamentary affairs, as well as the strength of each council. We were also urged to do so in 1 Corinthians 15: 58. 2.g. The bill would be in no way addressed to people with neutral registrations into a national registry, as Article 3. The bill. A greater proportion of these points out that gaps between 1 and 2 are apparent. The bill aims to match the inclusion opportunities and effects of these two groups, male and female, in the community. Despite the regulations of chapters 1 and 2. The bill does not keep an uncool rule at this point in Article 3. However, the bill considers the greater portion to be equal to Article 1 and paragraph 2. The bill reflects the reality that there are more than two genders. So the majority suggest that the status of individuals with neutral genders is to be taken into a national record. The majority of the remaining portion feels that similar changes will be made in 2 mg. 1st par. Congress is required in paragraphs 1 and 2. the bill, so that the proportion of women and men in the draft board will be equal to the results of the General elections and the sex ratios within the council. We always come to that again. These measures should be taken to ensure that the status of individuals with neutral records of race in a national registry. In this context, the more part is entitled to apply the same rules as those of the fixed committees, as stated above. Congress. In this way, it should be observed that the ratio of gender to a special committee as well as to the position of persons with neutral genders. With a factor of 3. The bill is presented with a strict rule that at the election of committees, councils and management by Generals and other official recommendations, and governments should make sure that the proportion of women and men is equal and not less than 40% for more than three agents. This does not prevent the vote of people with neutral registrations into a national file. However, the proportion of women should never be less than 40%. Here we are. talking about the management of the Federal Bank, the State Radio, the Þingalval Committee, and other committees that we have for the General Assembly. The importance of the initiation of a transparent process was shown in the treatment phase to ensure a uniform gender ratio. A greater part of the report says that the bill expects a search in the field of the council groups to allow the proportion of women and men in the arts to be chosen according to 82.g. The price of convergence. It shows that the project is possible so that the appointment of members of a body of Congress can be conformed to non - panel committees for their vote. Thus, the majority of the members consider nothing to be too critical that the council members consider whether there is any basis for developing a process with the intention of ensuring equal gender ratios. In this context, the majority also point out that at the Generals' Web site, we find who are elected by the Council of Governments, Nameds, and Counsel. And we accepted this at the beginning of this election period, reminding me, when they appointed us to Iceland's Secret Bank and did well with members of the council then. In the 3rd. The bill is presented with a change to 82nd. Congress. In between 1 and 2 pars. the bill is presented with a 3 mg change. Section 3. and 1st. 14th par. Congress. Then the extra item suggests a similar change to 1st. It's the law. It's found in Count 1 and 2. The bill. These guidelines refer to Article 82. The law. Articles 1, 3 and 14. Congress is considered a protocol against the 82nd fiscal standard vote rule. The law. In contrast, the majority consider it proper to make a trial in Article 3. the bill that the unscrupulous rule of gender ratios does not apply to voting on the Presidency Committee, Fast Committees, International Committees and Advisor Committees, and suggests changes in their subject. There is no law on gender proportions in fixed committees or other committees at the Council of Norse Congress. If the bill is legal, the General Assembly of the First National Congress in the Northern states will be responsible for measuring the subject of gender proportions in the United Nations. In view of all of this, the greater part suggests that this bill will be agreed with the changes it will bring. Under that rule, Páll Magnússon, in advance, writes to President Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Olga Margrét Cilia, in advance, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, Þóra, Turnar the Year's Árnadóttir, and Þorbjörg Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir. I just want to say, you respectable President, there's no island in this. It's a recommendation. However, a certain principle is being used. No one can be appealed to a committee by this criteria, i.e. Both genders. But this is a step in the right direction. This is a theme for decision making, which will be a better place, and we have in mind what we can do here in the council, reminding us that even though it is a democratic choice on the list of elections, it is also interesting to see that decades of gender proportions do not reach up despite the increasing political involvement of women. After the 2017 election, the proportion of women went down to 38% here at the council, that reminds me of 48% 2016. Of course, it's a concern, and now it's getting elections and setting up all sorts of things, and I think it's very important that this is being kept in mind that those who choose to be on the list think that it reflects not just sex but, of course, everything else that those who volunteer to bear. A respectable president. I'm gonna make it work. Changes are proposed on the part of the majority and modifications made by the smaller part, which will probably be made below.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u40	A respectable president. That's exactly what I discussed in 1st. to the point that while it is said that there is a need to ensure a gender ratio, it is not possible to have a sorting order in Class A, who selects his agents in committees according to their best skills and knowledge, etc., depending on the order of any second class. It may appear that all eight members of a council ship only women, or just men, of one committee of the council. Then no one will be able to visit another group and say, "Would you like to appoint representatives of another sex on this committee? I just want to draw attention to this flaw, when using expressions like ensuring equal sex ratios, you can't guarantee that. One group cannot appoint other classes for the committee committees. There are the limits of this bill, in fact, completely clear. Sadly, and fortunately, if that is the case, because the independence and authority of each body of council and members of that council are, of course, independent of the authority of others. Each senator has his own authority, and nothing else to say, except his right to sit on the committees of the council. I just wanted to reiterate that there's the line on this bill and maybe ask them, "Would you like to choose another expression, but if you need to match your gender ratio, because you can't?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u41	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. I don't know if this word needs to be divided, guaranteed. In view of the context it's on the bill, I don't think so. It is absolutely true that this is a little complicated when we face up to the fact that members of the council, such as I mentioned in my talk earlier, may be appointed by women or, in part, appointed men. It's just something to consider when we choose democratically on our list. But I think we're reasonably well-numbered people and would sit over them, as was done with a financial committee at the time. Then it was wondered, " Can I change or do such things? ' The discussion in committees is different when both sexes come up, and it is good if we can prevent the gender ratios from inflexible with conversation at such times. Once this has happened, to some extent it has been right. But it is in nature that it is not always possible. Some categories can replace people, others can't, just by the way they are made up. I would always say that we should work hard to try, and the group that is in the best position to do so at any given time should try. As I mentioned earlier, this is possible and must be free of charge in committees outside the council, as has been done, and we even did. as to an order in the Secret Bank, where members of the council were doing well.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u42	President. The current issues have been discussed in the General Information and Education Committee. I have to know we're about 1st. Here at the council, I declared certain doubts about this, and they have not been reduced by overcrowding on the committee, added if anything. I just wanted to give some viewpoints about the matter as such. The matter can be divided into two parts, and there is only a sharp difference between how the matter is held, on the other hand, when it comes to choosing the committee and the committees outside the council. Of course, regarding the committees of the council, fixed committees, international committees, and other committees appointed by members of the Parliament, members of the interior, if we can say so, the change that the bill is actually not a great thing. I'm not going to guess why this is suggested, but when I say it's not a big change, it's that, of course, the rule given here is not going to be binding for Congress groups, so no pressure or repairs or anything can be applied if there's no ideal in committees so that sex ratios are in this particular way. It is being measured to be used as a guideline. It is being suggested that we be elected by committees at the council to have the view that gender proportions will be balanced. You might ask, "Why am I keeping it to myself? Why don't I agree? That's what the council presidents have done. As noted by the member of the Committee's review, this is one of the viewpoints that are taken into consideration when coming up with members of Congress. This has been done without any mention of it being written in the Senate. There has been no need for that in the Senate to keep such views in mind when it came up, as it were. In my view, the Trinity is supposed to be relatively clear. There should be some clear minimum rules. If there's something else that we want to agree on, beyond what is specifically required in Congress, we should be able to do so. There is no room for a council of articles that encourages the other to do so and this, which is not binding. This may seem like a full - scaled view to me, but I cannot really be consistent with myself unless I maintain this view. It's a positive and good thought for those who are setting up for the councils when it comes to choosing committees, to be careful about gender, but to encourage them in Congress creations, I don't think it's necessary. And, in fact, I find many other regulations 14 are part of my life. .. which is about the Committee to Re-Elect, may be lost, which explains the adjustment of the proposal I recommend below. In its own way, the same principle applies to elections in committees outside the council. Since the decision to make suggestions on individuals to be chosen on committees outside the council is generally involved, this has been discussed, and as a result, it has been discussed. The head of the committee's review has led to changes in the definition of gender ratios, as they have come from individual categories, to a significant degree. This view has been considered, even though there was no legal obligation to discuss, and I think it would be good to keep it that way. In fact, I think all developments are basically on the way that sexuality, as suggested there, must gradually be on the way out as women in the many community projects are growing. I don't think anyone has to doubt that. Even if a temporary relapse has occurred in the sex ratios of the 2017 election, no one needs to doubt that the situation in this material is quite different today than it was 20, 30 or 40 years ago. I think this trend will continue, and I think that this trend will also continue on the terms of a committee in the council and a vote in committees outside the council. I feel that so many other viewpoints other than the sex of those mentioned above should be meaningful when it comes to this choice, whether it is mentioned within or outside the council. Of course, it is normal in committees who have a clear political role that the number of classes are involved. It's also natural, as shown in the conversations between whiskers. paritaprevir Björn Leví of Gunnarsson and the Bjarkey of Olsen Gunnarsdóttir earlier, are self - appointed members of the panels for what suggestions they make on individuals in such committees. It should not be my role as the head of the Independence Party to tell members of the United States Assembly: You must not make a suggestion about a man because Pirat made a suggestion about a man. I really find it a ridiculous place to be in. That's what I've been through. Happily, in the end, some sort of agreement has been resolved. However, I don't think it's unreasonable to have some kind of legalisticity against the basic princeship that the classes have a measure of authority over whom they choose confidential matters. I'm not going to get into this any further, chief. President. Of course, there are conflicting views. I don't think gender is the kind of thing that they should drum all other views, as you sometimes feel careful in this discussion. I think it's good and positive if groups can agree to say no in committees or advice so that sex ratios aren't wrong, but I don't think there's any reason to put it in the law. As a member of the Committee, I wondered: " How will that be, for example? that the Norwegian Parliament hasn't done this, how's that going to work? Is it really so that in Denmark, Norway, Sweden, and Finland, there are maleembus advocates, so that it doesn't cause anyone to be so progressive and equalistic about making rules like this? No, I think the explanation is much more the nature of the council as the local National Committee representatives who come from different categories and want the committee to reflect that order. I think that's why Sweden, Danir, Finns and Norse have not made such a rule. I think we should wonder - we don't always have to follow our neighbors, but because these lands are often seen, especially when it comes to equality - why they haven't gone that way. I feel that there is a lack in the fact that supporters of this matter are wondering why these nations, all of whom are considered to be in charge of equality in the world, have not chosen this way. I leave that question with what? Councilmen. Regarding the adjustment proposal I make, along with the rook. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson, I would like to reflect on that, since the terms of the Committee to Re-Elect are considered in the 14th chapter. Congress, whether there is any reason to cut down the standards that are significant and really disappear again for the changes made in the 2011 Parliament and based just on choosing a member of the Parliament's Committee, and after the occurrences of committees outside the council, according to a percentage rule, according to 82 st. Thus, the committees at the council reflect the strength of the council and according to events of cooperation, as has been the case. The board of directors agrees on a list, or the control standard, selected according to a ratio election system. I'm counting, chief. President, it's much more clear to keep this rule simple and clear. It's just chosen in committees according to this percentage election process. Then, if there's something else they want to get along with, they just do. But there is no need to make such a decision in the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u43	President. There's a lot to go over here. I first wondered about the changes. Senator. If things return to what was but cannot be taken care of by the law as they deal with the switch between committees, governments and government positions, why not put them in the law? We are dealing with very interesting terms in law, where there is no hope that laws will be carried out. You can assume that out there people feel that there is a need for women to be at least 40% on the committees of the council, that people have the expectation that the council will follow it. But it can't. We've been trying to explain how the arrangement works in terms of individual council independence and, in fact, individual members of Congress. Then if we make adjustments like that. A senator suggests that it is not initially assumed that the government will take only the number of committees that it needs without any agreement. That's what I've been thinking about, like what's wrong. One senator says, if people don't negotiate in Congress, why not make them that way? If there are certain expectations to follow that standard. There are a lot of things on both the bill and on the change proposal, which is somehow a little forward and back, and I don't quite know where we're going when both of these changes have come into place.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u44	Mr. President. In order to make a long story short, the adjustment in the motion I make here is a matter of ordering a matter of minimum rules, which includes choosing a percentage vote in all committees and advice. Of course, if we want to negotiate something else, we can. However, I feel that there is no reason for me to have any advice or comment in the Senate if that is not binding anyway.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u45	A respectable president. The problem may be that it is said in the process of making changes that in each regular committee, nine members of the council vote as participant but are not really spoken of as a whole of committees. Perhaps that is where the understanding of this point lies. In discussing a number of committees as a whole, this can be the case when there is little difference in the number of government and government opposition, not reaching a higher level in all committees that leads to the agreement that the management is going to get more part of all committees, perhaps that is, just a delay. I would also like to ask questions as well. A senator mentioned, i.e. that many countries are viewed as role models, e.g. on equality, etc. Don't we want you to look at us? I hear it very often that we're showing off because we're the oldest and most distinguished council in the world, etc. and people should look to us with it. I feel somehow that we've stopped talking about people being exemplary in Iceland and that we're always mentioning the northern countries and waiting for them to do something before we have the guts to move on.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u46	V.E.G. President. Now I think we're gonna do it. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson is too caught up in the current Committee. What I make of the change is that it's actually cut away 14 g's. to a large extent as she looks today and afterward, it is only a recommendation for each Senate committee, which makes it possible for a higher level of government to be aggressive, which can be done with the advantage of every committee, but there is no suggestion that if an agreement next or so, there is any other way to go. Of course, if you want to agree, you can do so when some committees are listed, whether out of gender reasons, views of government or government or country member on this committee or the other or something, you can have a wide range of views. But I don't think there's any reason for me to be making a decision on such a thing. It's kind of the thought I'm trying to convey, no matter how it works. For the reference to the northern countries, I wasn't saying, and must not be misunderstood so, that we have to wait for the North countries. I just wanted to use this thing to wake up. Congress officials consider that this proposal, as it is here for the presiding committee, does not have an example or pattern in the countries that are believed to have been foremost in this regard. It's for something. It's because of something, I think, which it is. It is because of the special nature of the National Assembly, where different categories meet and have to be appointed by their representatives. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u47	President. A little continuation of the talk I gave at 1 Corinthians 15: 58. Um... in an effort to explain why this is a perfectly good policy to have and to set out without the application. The concern I have in connection with it is just that our expectations, based on law, can create unrealistic expectations. If it is legal for a minimum of 40% of the committees to be women - based on a change in the majority of the committee's institutions, to consider all genders - create expectations that cannot be followed. When that does not happen, for all the reasons we have, in fact, considered, both in return and in Genesis. Um... then there's a rather unfair demand for a class that obviously could convince two agents from two committees to make everything look perfect. At that time, that group might be like a scapegoat for not following a law that was just not fair at all. There may be other groups, although this was the simplest way, which, by some means, could fulfill the law. I have a little problem with putting something like this in a law that creates the expectation of a law that most likely does not happen automatically during the next few years, unfortunately. I hope that happens, but I'd guess this wouldn't fall completely into the law, although it might be possible. It may be the most difficult situation when it can be done, but it will not. What? Why don't we follow the law, at least they're required, I'd say, and when this is also there, expectations exist outside the council. You'd see a complaint coming to us: Please follow the law. We all know how such discussions can begin. I just want to make it perfectly clear that this is a law that creates a reference, but somehow it doesn't have to be followed. I think it's a bit unusual, I can just sign it with the advance that there's only a reference, but there's a pretty big rule for others maybe. It's just my conviction and my conscience that will account for the vote when you press the button about this bill, but it'll still be a law when it all goes through like this. There I come only to the skills of committees. I think it's important to review the role of the senators only in general here at the council. We should expect that in general a senator is not special in order to play any role in a committee or in a council. There are no qualifications for members of Congress but simply to be elected and then to follow their own convictions. It's inevitable that when members of Congress and senators choose a role - I would like to be on a budget or a World Education Committee or something like that - one member of the Parliament is no better than another to sit on individual committees. It's just not because there's no skill code behind it. Actually, someone could definitely be more qualified than others, I'm not going to argue for it, of course. But that is not expected. It is assumed that anyone can come and sit on committees to do that work as well as everyone else, well enough at all, because the only qualifications will be the testimony of the senator after all. It is not based on education or anything else. It simply depends on the commission from the voters. After all, no one tells the senator how to use his convictions or conscience. The Senator himself represents his opinion and conviction. I find it interesting, based on the discussion in this case, that people have suggested that certain committees certainly choose to be interested. Some are better off sitting on a financial and business committee, for example. with a business education or something like that, or with a financial committee where there is a lot of work to be done with numbers, etc. But it is not necessarily to make a senator a better member of the committee after all because the support we have as members of the committee's committees at the council should be independent of our own abilities. Of course, we add them. But we should be able to do our job regardless of the background of any committee. That is simply what is set aside in the constitution. There are no qualifications, and I think it only affects this case, at least our attitude toward it, that there's no right to sit on a financial and business committee because he's a businessman or an economist or something like that. This does not automatically improve the person's handling of committees, for the point of view is that everyone should be able to perform these tasks. I just wanted to draw attention to this point as far as the Senate work is concerned. We certainly have some experience and are interested in different matters and things, but in the end, it's not our abilities or experience that really matters in the matter of Congress or committee work. It's our convictions. She should be able to be independent of everything else, of course. We want independent results. We want findings in which people take a stand on expert rock that comes with all the help they need to take a informed view and to convince themselves that one view is more important than another. It is what the Senate business is about when it comes to everything, to evaluate the viewpoint of each individual senator, to consider that it is more important than others, in any language, in any committee, and in general. We are choosing those who are thus making decisions based on their convictions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u48	Mr. President. There may be two things in this. On the one hand, at least I agree. A senator says that when choosing the committee, all members of the council should be able to sit on any committee. What happens in the committees is no more binding than any decision - making committee will then be revised to the Senate Hall, where all members of Congress are involved. In reality, then, the commission work is about making a decision and a work ethic rather than the final decisions made. It is good to keep this in mind, even when we consider this matter. It is not as if people, especially those outside the council, are sometimes exposed to the honor or privilege of being on this committee or the other. It's not like that in our reality here at the council. We're drowning in committee work the whole time, and I think most members of the council I know would love to be free of some committee job rather than to improve in the event of that. On the other hand, I would like to say that because the committee's work is about employment and economic management, there is a considerable advantage for the members of the council to appoint them on committees that may have the greatest interest or talent in the field. That's not always possible. However, it is one of the factors that must be considered in terms of the formation of members of Congress and the dissociation of workers, i.e. that everyone is where he's most useful.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u49	A respectable president. This is just an important point I find to be missing during the Senate work, and it is simply a presentation in the field for each committee at the beginning of each election period, each body of Congress, and just a general information gift available to me, therefore for everyone, about how the issues mentioned are about active. In fact, it is assumed that these are the classes that scholars study how the system works when it comes down to everything, that there is the loss, not the members of the Parliament itself, as it were. We in the Pirates have had a bit of a chance to come in as a new body and have to get to know the system almost from the start of some committees, less in others, depending on the field of interest and the experiences of the local senators. We may hand over members of Parliament committees, and it is natural that new senators, new council members, etc., who come to work committees have to jump into the deep pool first. It is not so easy to get information on how the system, the law, etc., ends up in the management work of the Committee, the surveillance role of the Committee. If so, it would be less important to know exactly who does the committee work except just how different people feel. This may be more than in some type of educational background, or something similar to that of the actual committee work, i.e. that we have a fine presentation of where each committee actually operates. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u50	Mr. President. I think there may be a number of factors. Of course, the council as an institution has been trying to improve information supplies for new members of Congress. From term to term, I believe that men are now trying to put members of the Parliament into their jobs, including those of the United States. The committee job. But there may be other things I was going to come on before I let go of my hand. A senator, and this has to do with matters of concern. A senator may have wondered, but I feel that there is something missing in this discussion, and it is simply the fact that the more groups of people sitting at the General Assembly, the less they are, the less the space available to move, e.g. to reach a certain level of gender or such. I just wanted to ask you what. A senator whether he would agree with the opinion that if members of a council were e.g. Four, as they were not so many years ago, would in general be more room to achieve such goals within the framework of the ratio election system than when there are eight such ones today, and some of them are very small and small. I just wanted to pray. A senator arguing with me some questions about this point in particular.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u51	A respectable president. I consider this to be a very good question, but second, an example of the shortsightedness of those who believe that they have power and cannot see the world as it is. The four - party system, amen, may have disappeared forever, and another political landscape involves other categories. I'd like to cancel the 5% rule in order to include even more and less. It would mean a similar arrangement, such as. in the city of Reykjavík, where relief officials were more available in committees and members of the council and staff, even on the behalf of members of the council, or on the basis of regular judicial committees. Although it was not for members of Congress that were truly elected in a chamber, we would still be with staff or guardians to do committee work as hearing agents or in that way. So I think it's a very easy solution, it's definitely gonna cost something, but I think it's gonna be a much better democracy that comes from it than what's part of the four-way system, which we've probably left behind.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u52	President. I'm a Pirati, so I always want to go one step further with the change each time. So I agree with what is said by the Conspiracy '78 that people are not necessarily men or women, and some individuals define themselves, not as women or men, but outside the genders, somewhere between them or with a flowing sense of sex. I'd like to wish for such rules or similar legal adjustments to make it possible that in committees, women and sex would be dealt with as much as in men. All genders need to make decisions, and there is a large amount of decision-making involved in the committees. So it doesn't matter that men spend more time talking, that women are not taken to the same degree as men, and that there is something in our social upbringing that makes it more important to white cylinder men, and I am personally very tired of it and certainly more than I am. Furthermore, my concern in general about the equal status of the sexes is that the sex ratio here at the council Hall will get worse after the next total election, i.e. that men will be here in more ways than now, and then this law would bring back little or that change. I understand the point, but I'm not quite sure our objective will return what we need. The problem here at a council, such as in other places, is the disrespect that people allow to show for women and sex in speech and literature. Whether it's in the bar next to or on the committee meetings, it's a custom for certain debates and actions that tear down and down and down those that don't fall into the frame of the white Sir-hetonymcat male. Sadly, legislation does not change culture or guarantee respect for one another. When women and sex have been complained about disrespect, I have heard that this is just part of the political environment. The point is, the political environment is made by men for men. Diving is certainly an attempt to change the system, but at the same time, it is being tried to squeeze everyone into the same pedigree. I don't want to work at a place where it suggests that I just have to shake down a disparaging language and work with men who have come to the conclusion of a very disparaging debate about women and sex without any interference. Besides, it's interesting to hear it. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson of a year is wondering why the other northern countries have not been like this, and perhaps members of the Committee should consider just how they are spoken of and with women and sexs in the North countries. The need for such rules may not be the same. Could it be that they are more than we are in terms of equality and equality? I don't know the answer, but it can be rolled up from a point of view. In this regard, it is also of interest to ask, " How would people in the other northern parts of the world have reacted if they had sat at a bar talking disparagingly about women, homosexuals, and disabled people? ' I think the response there would have been quite different from Iceland. The formation and society there would have taken much more stringent measures. It may not have been possible that such ones would have returned to the council even if they had been treated or had taken a break while the matter had been allowed to lie down. Women and sex don't just need a seat at the table. We need space to be able to communicate, and we need respect for the fact that what we say and that it is accepted. I may not feel that most groups of society do not have to be taken into account in general, but sexuality itself does not assume that women and sexes can be more important than men. Thus, it would be more effective for the future if the wording was on the way that a committee order should take into account the gender percentages of elected members of the council. Laws do not change people's thinking or ensure that we respect one another, but surely legal laws can always be one step of many in order to live in an equal community of unions, backgrounds, sexual orientation, gender, etc. Finally, I'd like to point out some sort of sexual autonomy law that was approved here at the Council a few months ago. All of us should study them and be guided by them throughout our work.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u53	A respectable president. I come up here to express myself on this matter, as is true of the members of the Parliament who are written for the members of the committee's list of parts. Perhaps there is a reason to mention, though the nature of the case has been taken up here by an executive, that it is proposed on the part of the Council's Presidency Committee. I've found the subject of self-concerned at the Senate Hall today interesting. I think all three articles will consider that certain guidelines are being introduced, a set of viewpoints to be used in all work on committees within the council, but always in relation to the reality of the council, i.e. that performance will be limited to the proportions of the genders at the General Assembly at any given time, so that the balance of Congress will not be disturbed. This makes it clear that there is no obligation, so it is very obvious that this is simply an introduction of a certain viewpoint that seems both objective and beneficial. I'm surprised to tell you the truth, people come up here and all seem to fear where they're headed. I think it matters to me what the situation is at the General Assembly of the Icelanders and, in fact, has always been. Women have always been a member of the General Assembly of the Icelanders, always. In 2017, we experienced a temporary reduction in the number of elections, which was about 10%. I don't think it's beneficial, and it's not realistic to talk about it as a temporary situation when the story of the council is what it is. It is, of course, that there are certain categories that may be the most skunks in this context and that have the highest responsibility for the gender proportions, but I would have thought that all classes of the Parliament should be able to agree on the objective here is to aim, on the objective that the Allegorical Council can like other institutions, such as the labour market and the proliferates all accept that there are grammatic views, to be a useful viewpoint, to be a poncial viewpoint, and will lead to good speech that the Allied Council is going to the same direction as society does. Then, of course, it is also such that this view of equal and equal proportions of the sex has a practitional and practical significance, that women as well as men make the law for society all. We can examine certain law columns in historical context and ask: "When the statute of penalties was given, it was only men who sat at council, etc.? Is it important for girls and boys in the schools of the country to see women as well as men at the World Council? I think it's obvious. Iceland has made excellent progress in the equality struggle, we should be proud of it, but we should also be aware that we are not in the country, and we are not in the place where time alone or waiting will give the conclusion of equality between the sexes. We need to keep moving. It has been so that it has been the law, that it has been a targeted action that has brought us to the place we are today, not just the time. I found an interesting viewpoint that earlier stated that the North countries had not yet taken the step of enforcing legislation that obliges the council to do something or anything. We're not doing that either. But we are here referring to the fact that this is a view that should be viewed. I don't know if the Northern Parliament is so shy that they don't challenge it, but there I would just say that sometimes it's good to lead and point out that Iceland is in the part where it is because we have dared. You can, for example, do so. Consider Iceland's legislation on maternity and parentorum, set in 2000. How did this affect the international setting later? The northern countries looked to the Icelanders in that regard. I think we should look at the matter cold and read the text and the viewpoints in it, see what it means. It is in this matter of not looking to gender. The purpose is set, and here is a set guide that is fixed in law. But that's all. Could it really be that the Allied Parliament should be afraid to set such goals, the goals that we have set in law for an entirely different career? Is it possible that the Allied Council of Iceland is speaking for gender equality and speaking for the particular level of equality in Iceland, but do they think that they do not apply to the Allied Council of Iceland? The text tells us that it has a responsibility to observe the sex - related gender issues and to be careful that the ratios of the sexes are now all there is to it. I'm going to finish my case by referring to what I mentioned at the outset, that it is good to keep that in mind, when we consider this matter, what the situation at the Icelandic Parliament is about the proportion of the sex and the objective and should be. We have the reality that we have never reached an equal sex ratio, that the typical senator of our council is a 52 - year - old male, a good age. I'm in favor of our objective, thinking that it's both good, practical, and realistic in the context that the elections go out the way the elections go. There's no such thing as commitment. There are no councils being bound here. This is simply a petition to the council to participate in modern times and to respect gender purposes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u54	V.E.G. President. I must admit that few things give me more weight than such legislation. I'm almost up to listen to the talks that have been delivered here, most of them not all. 8th yrs Reykv.. n. Maybe I'm a drunk, I don't want to rule it out, but to me law is to put down the rights and duties and rules of law that we want to follow. Law code isn't something to show off. Law code is not for setting any rules on goals and intangibles that are not even binding. My sense of humor doesn't go too far to be involved. And when people are somehow trying to link this fatherhood, the middle-aged, mean-aged, bad men, you think to yourself, " Yes, we've come there. ' We're putting a law that's based on something like that. I often wondered about the concept of equality, equality; it's all about not showing partiality to anyone on the basis of something. We should not discriminate against anyone on grounds of gender, race, etc. But when we're choosing a committee, it's not the only ground standard for any kind of man. I'm a man of diversity, but wait, is this all about gender? Have we completely stopped being individuals? There are many other views than sex. It can be age, past work, experience, and knowledge. No, and this is what we are doing at the same time as we are all meant to be sexless, and there should be many genders. Is it hope that you scratch your head? I don't know where the Senate is going. So he boasts that we are first, that the rest will come. I think the rest of the council is just looking at us like they're every other fool. I don't think there's anything else that's going to happen. When you listen to speeches, why? Councilmen known as victims' freckles of fathers' peace, and this is about to revolve around that, I ask: Where have we come from? There's no one anymore. He's just part of a group. It's like everybody who's women or everybody who's men is always the same. It's not like that. I'm suggesting we stop all this nonsense. It's just for show. It's pointless, making us laugh, at least in time. V.E.G. President. I'll stop before I get more hot.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u55	A respectable president. I have a seat on the Presidency Committee to transport this bill. I can have a clear understanding of various viewpoints that have been heard during the discussion. As a result, we are a group of members of the nation, and as a result, there are different groups of members, and the sex ratios may vary considerably in the seminaries. As a result, it may often be unfair and difficult to look to what is being measured here. This does not change the fact that it is important that both gender and all sensors are heard. It's important. I honestly believe that if only women were off the board of budgets, we would be with a lower budget than if we had both sexes and people from both the capital area and the country. In other words, I think this diversity is important. It's just that way. And even if we're not all the same, and I'm not like all my sisters, it's still that both genders and all genders matter. Of course, there are many ways to show that companies or communities are better off if everyone's energy is being used. This is especially true of both genders. A respectable president. I just wanted to come up here and describe my opinion. I'm taking this bill and it says what I'm thinking about it. I have a clear understanding of the viewpoints presented here. This may be complicated, and some may find it unusual for us to place ourselves in a seminary, which is actually a law, some such recommendation. I can respect those views. This does not change the fact that my convictions turn to the importance of sexual equality, so it is reasonable to assume that members of Congress at the General Assembly view sex equality when it comes to committees. Of course, I'm not saying that it should only be looked at, and of course the background, education, and experience of people as well as have the dominant influence.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u56	Mr. President. I was just going to, before this discussion is over, just to make up the content of the adjustment proposal that I make along with my head. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson. It actually goes on to simplify much of an arrangement with the Committee's Committees so that the rule that we are elected by regular committees is set by nine members of Congress, according to 82 st. And as many as there are. At 82rd. it is then decreed that it should happen on the basis of a so-called d'Hondts system, and that those members of Congress or members of Congress who want to stand together would like to present a list which is then chosen. This is a clear rule taken by the current Article 1. 14th par. Since members of the council are expected to offer a mutual proposal for the other and this, taking into account all kinds of viewpoints and the bill presented here, it is really just a matter of knitting all these views that are to be made but not binding. I suppose here that the rule is simple and clear, but of course, as I did during the discussion earlier, members of Congress may agree that all kinds of views are based on the arts they present and support, but it is not long spoken of in the law itself. Another change I expect here is that the Presidents will be elected by each committee individually, i.e. that no mutual proposal for the presidents of the Committee or the vice presidents, as recommended in the Senate today, is in fact, however, that if no agreement is reached, that rule applies. But I want this to be clearer. It is, then, that those elected to committees vote for the members of the committee and the vice presidents after committees operate. And third, a change is expected to result from this on the international committees. I'm actually talking about that instead of taking out all the suspenses about all the points that you should have in mind, that you should try to get together about the rest and this and if they don't agree on the rest and this is just a choice between them, you're expected to vote on the basis of the d'Hondt principle, based on the relative strength of this council. And then they want to agree about something else, that's just what they do, like they have. has been made up in terms of elections in committees outside the council, where there have been many gender issues, even though there is no law to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u57	Mr. President. I recommend here to the Committee's list of changes in bill proposals to correct changing children's law on sexual autonomy. Reviewing this, the bill suggests the adjustment in child law to the addition of new requirements that recommend parental status of parents and persons with neutral gender. The changes are aimed at ensuring parental rights that have changed the registry and making them equal to other parents. I'd like to review the committee's discussion, but under the treatment of the matter, it was criticized that child law would not be any further about changing children so that they would be in harmony with the reality of gay parents and their families as well as that the baby law would not be made without gender. It was noted that it would have been preferable to suggest that a person who gives birth to a child along with his or her marriage partners would automatically be a registered parent regardless of childbearing status, gender, or sexual orientation. In this context, it was also noted that using the bill, different positions were maintained in a heterologous and homologous pair when administering a donor seed in assisted reproduction techniques. In the former instance, the pater est rule goes beyond the right of the child to recognize its biological origin than the new and sexual-independent parens est rule of parental doctrine of those who have changed their sex registration but the rule applies only if the initial gender does not exclude the biological relationship between the partner and the child. Furthermore, the position of men was discussed, but there was a view that by means of the bill, their position was narrowed from what has been. According to the bill, a transtransmission of a male child with his wife would have to be specifically aware of the use of a donor seed, but under current law it would not be required. It would be more natural for the trans fathers to enjoy as much right with other men as the pater est rule would get them to apply in their case, as would have been the case in the past few years without trouble. A greater part of the General and Education Committee is the importance of using this bill in terms of ensuring the rights of the parents who have changed the registration of gender and making them equal to other parents. The bill is not making fundamental changes to the foundation of parental standards. The majority state that the separate rules of child law and parental status after ART are based, not on a pater est protocol, but on the application and approval of the donors requesting assisted reproductive techniques and that assisted reproduction techniques have been conducted according to the rules recommended in assisted reproduction techniques and the use of human sex cells and embryos for stem cell studies, No. 55/1996. This is true regardless of gender or sexual orientation and whether there is semen or egg administration. It is essential that assisted reproduction techniques be performed according to the laws including: ensuring knowledge about the origin of the sex cells and the rightness of those who suggest them. The bill is not changing the position of men. According to local law, the pater est rule does not apply to a man who has a baby with his wife and is not expected to change it in the bill. The child's parents'position is based on the general information regarding the formality of assisted reproductive techniques. The bill shows that an employee who was assigned to make proposals for changes in other laws needed to ensure the rights of transmissible people and the Intersex people felt that there would be a right goal over time for child law and other laws to be devoid of gender. A report of the same work group from September 2020 shows that there is reason to consider that a full reexamination of child law with the goal of reevaluating principles and grounds in the light of the changed realities of modern society. It is noted that the influence of diverse family shapes and scientific progress should be weighed in the light of children's right to know their parents, as 1 mg. 7. the United Nations covenant for children and 1st par. a child - law, and that such a review should be guided by equal resolve and may include suggests that children's laws would be made without gender. The majority agree with this and consider it important to ensure the rights of those who have changed their gender registry and those who have a neutral sex registry in accordance with the sexual autonomy laws. The majority feel that the work force has brought to light the need for a full review of the children's law and that their work was in harmony with the views of gay parents who have been treated. In this context, it is noted that more than a portion of the General and Education Committee proposed a revised bill to correct child law, which was 11 cases at the present assembly, suggesting that the children's law be subject to an overall review within three years of the approval of the bill. The largest section on the bill, referred to in the Committee, says the need for a review of the children's law. in the light of laws on sexual autonomy. The majority stress that this may mean that child - law will be made homosexual, which can also lead to a further gender - free code with such a review. The majority point to the Ministry of Justice that the above factors will be taken into consideration by a full reexamination of child law. This is important. For the Committee it was criticized that the changed sex registrations, including information on biological characteristics, and the intended fertility of individuals, were to try to determine the genetic origin of children. At that time, it was criticized that information would be maintained by the National Book of Iceland so that children could be approached later. The majority point out that in a national registry, gender is always recorded, on the one hand, according to announcement and on the other, if it is a foreign citizen, by passport or by birth certificate. That registration is the initial sex registration. With the Law on Sexual Self - Control, No. 80/2019, is authorized to change the registry of gender. All changes are listed in a national file, and by reviewing the history of change, a change in gender can be accessed. The majority of the claim to national registry is not documented whether a child is able to be conceived with assisted reproductive techniques but registration of the child and parent may be based on data relating to assisted reproductive techniques. I'm finally going to make some adjustments that we make in the greater part. When dealing with the matter, it was noted that a reference to 7 mg was needed. Section 6. the bill, i.e. ... rather than refer to 8 mg. Section 6. The second act of law should refer to 7 mg. the law of the law. Quote 7 mg. Section 6. The law deals with three persons; a seed, a wife, or his partner, and a sperm donor. In this context it was noted that in a special principle about people who have changed their sex registration, they must be expected that each member may have a different sex registry. 7 mg. Section 6. Hence, the bill is missing a law on sperm transplant recipients who have changed their gender registry. Therefore, this law does not apply if a sperm donor produces semen in order to be used for assisted reproduction techniques in a non-transfusional sex registry. According to this, a seed donor might become the father of the thus named child with his seed. The majority of the evidence shows that semen is always the one who feeds the baby. Code 1. Section 6. The bill, and the incident of 8 mg. The same standard is for sperm transplant recipients who have changed their gender registry. That is the law of 2 and 3 mg. Section 6. the bill on a mate who has changed her sex registration, i.e. partner of the sperm recipient. However, the majority consider it important to take clear of all bickering about the rightness of the sperm donor and his or her mate without regard to the gender of the one who receives the seed. Thus, the majority suggest a change in 6 mg. Section 6. The law so that, instead of referring to sperm transplant recipients as a woman's second, they will be referred to as a sperm transplanter as an individual's ◯. In addition, the majority suggest minor word changes for correction and correction as well as technical changes that are not intended to influence the subject of the bill. I'm not going to trace it to my talk, but interested people can study the changes that are included in this committee party. Under the heading, Páll Magnússon, president of the General and Education Committee, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Birgir Ármannsson, Olga Margrét Cilia, in advance, printed with the bill, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gönsóttir, and Þorbjörg Gunnlaugsdóttir Gunulaugvótir. I'm just as sure to be. Senators are reporting on their representatives in the hearings here. Mr. President. I've finished my case, and I've explained this committee party's study and I've made some changes in it, and I hope that the bill will be agreed here after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u58	A respectable president. Thank you. For the review and interpretation of what is involved and the opinion of the committee, a member of the council and an executive of this case. She reviewed that this matter has something to do with other issues that were used to treat the General and Education Committee earlier this winter. That was the fourth and final case, the only thing standing out there. I think that anyone who has considered this case is aware that this includes important legal improvements and is of the good, but I just wanted to come up here to explain my warning to the matter. Perhaps it is to mention first that I sign the committee opinion with the greater part of it, in favor of these changes, these corrective changes, and support them. I think that's a good thing. I'm aware of that, as I think most people, if not all, the Committee members of the General and Education Committee, after reading reviews and listening to visitors who came to the committee and tore their views, are obvious that there are great feelings, this is a great matter of the heart, ending the great interests of the people at stake. Criticism, of course, showed respect for what has been traced here by a wind. A senator, that child law should not be changed any further, is more compatible with the reality of all parents and families. Hv. paritaprevir Even now, the Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir has been able to explain what this criticism was all about, and in the process, he tore to work after the approval of the bill, guided by these views. The one thing I did was my own foreordained to this. Of course, with the approval of this case, all families as well as all parents have not been achieved on the part of the Lawgiver. But I was very happy with it, and I thought it would be a good thing for more, as I understood, to agree that the work would be held, as explained in the committee's opinion, by an overall review of the children's law. In fact, I understand that at that job it is normal, instead of dealing with certain articles, and it is good for us to approach that subject whole - souled, i.e. Through the whole law of law, we look at it from this changing reality of people in society today. We're looking at a variety of family forms, we're looking at progress in science, and we're also looking at other and even stronger views of children's rights, e.g. to know their parents, the importance of the children's contract, etc. I have high hopes for the work that follows, and after that, we are looking for ways to achieve equality and equality in Iceland, where family and family forms share the same rights. But, of course, this is a complicated work with regard to what I mentioned, that there are more and more family plans than they were, and into all of this, a child's view of rights needs to be adjusted. But I had the advance that I wanted my clear view of this to be made, and I think it is important and, in view of the issues of equality, to continue my work and that my aim is full of equality.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u59	Madam President. I am, as we noted earlier, in the opinion of the committee, but I signed with them in advance that it does not guarantee sufficiently queer parents and does not conform to the reality of gay parents and their families. The Convention on Sexual Self - Control has just given the General warrant for a full review of individual rights law, including on marriage laws, laws, and children's laws It must be kept in mind, then, that the wording is not sufficient to be genderless, but it must be ensured that the rights remain and that rights will not be restricted but will be further extended. No doubt the Ministry should have started there. Here's a bill under the pretext that there is a recent contract on sexual autonomy without attempting to go all the way. If we do this, we just keep falling in the same dilemma, that the law doesn't cover all kinds of people, and not taking into account the gay reality. I'd like to quote the comments of Trans Iceland, which will appear, by permission of the President: A woman who gives birth to a child and a husband who is a foreign male should not be particularly aware of her use of a donor seed, as is true if her husband is a man who is an unbeliever. By the changes made by the bill, these parents would be obliged to recognize the use of a donor seed, as there were two women. So not all fathers sat down at the same table. Thus, two women ( existing in the current law, seen from the original sex registry) are being replaced by discrimination in behalf of two persons originally enrolled (both from the current sex registry). Although this bill is an important step, I miss that this opportunity has not been used in an overall review of the laws relating to personal rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u60	Mr. President. I'm here recommending a commission on bill change of law and other laws relating to it. The bill covers a number of factors and is made up of initiatives by the Minister of Justice, but in agreement with the members and institutions involved in these matters. The Committee of General and Education Committee is doing as it goes on and explains the reviews received by the Committee and which guests attended a meeting of the Committee. In general, it was that the bill received a good reception, and its points were not specifically controversial. We specifically agree in our discussion that we were dealing with the protection issues and the police's clearances to exchange information with other bodies, governments, members of society, and private members that the police need to communicate with and answer certain questions that have come up in this discussion. In view of the coverage that took place on the Committee, we also accept only the role of a European Commission on the role of a relatively new police officer, who has a very important role. The role of the surveillance committee under the bill is not expected to be altered, but we have a warrant that the police, the police, the sheriff's office, the prosecutors, and others have a very rich obligation to provide the information it calls for and are relevant to the observations it provides. We say on this subject in the committee opinion, with the permission of the president: The ◆ The metric moiety indicates that 6 mg. Section 8. the bill would be the text of 5 mg. Thirty-five. Police laws remain unchanged from today's activities and make the provision clear about the provisional rights of the offices. The main part of the section is the importance of the committee's ability to carry out its duties and to receive the information it needs. In this context, the greater part considers it important to be aware of the role of the committee. - Then, of course, they're referring to the surveillance committee. This figure is significant, although this issue is not expected to change under the supervision of this bill. Then we make some adjustments that are set up in the committee opinion. First, it is said that the arrangement involved in police cooperation with other governments, organizations and organizations is discussed in one paragraph. Second, contact or cooperation with foreign police authorities and is referred to the sources of foreign policemen to local work; the commission is to receive foreign policemen at the same time and always on the grounds of the Icelandic government. The report then discusses information exchange with foreign sources and the handling of criminal charges against police personnel. It is expected that a slight change will be made in these areas, and then, of course, we will make a natural change in values in view of the original assumed value of the bill on January 1, 2021, but that time has passed; we will suggest the change that the law will be valid at the time of publication. That's all I was going to mention in this relationship. The case was well discussed on the committee scene and was designed to make a good deal of the changes made by the bill and the proposed bill. The changes made or proposed by the Committee are technical rather than any specific transformation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u61	Mr. President. I wanted to introduce a review that came to the Committee and what. A senator went over a bit, i.e. ... froma commission on police surveillance. Like what? In fact, a senator mentioned in his speech comments on handing up data from police services. It is important to mention police surveillance, which, of course, is an important committee. A senator came in, can obtain all the information she needs in order to do his job. In certain cases, the review shows that getting data and getting it at the right time is a significant step. It mentions that there was a data request for more than a year before the committee was received data. The committee said that she had pointed out the need to see if there is some means to give her some resources to ensure that she receives and obtains data within the approved time. If I heard correctly, I said why. A senator that had crossed the committee but has not provided any changes. If I've got this right after what I've been through. I'm asking a senator if he can explain it further. It is of utmost importance that these things are all right, and I would have thought it normal for the committee to focus on these important factors, if that were the case. A senator could only cross it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u62	Mr. President. I think that in short, it might be this way: Of course, we listened to the surveillance committee's viewpoint, but it offered a view that the delivery of data from individual sources would not always work well enough, that it would take too long, and the committee didn't always think they would receive the data they needed, at least not work too fast and definitely. We might say: We agree with that, but we thus view the obligation of the office to deliver the data as irrefutable, and it does not in itself require any change to correct that view.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u63	Mr. President. Yes, there are various government institutions that then draw their feet in carrying out this responsibility, this is always a challenge that needs to be tried to deal with. I would have chosen to try to handle this in some way, for it has shown that there seems to be a persistent problem there. I also wanted to establish whether the Committee looked to the Norwegian rights as well as to dancing correctly in these matters. At least, when it comes to the foreign police law, it seems to be quick, at least. as I have studied, that there is not a comparable law in the Danish law since 2019 regarding the police authorities of foreign police officers. It would be interesting to know if the committee checked this out. In many cases it is good to look to the northern countries in this regard, since in most cases the experience is more and more. In case of a moment. A senator could only bring into it, this law of foreign police. It's a bit large and a lot of provision and change. I'm asking why. A senator can only review if the committee specifically discussed this, i.e. The implementation in the countries of the North and especially Denmark.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u64	Mr. President. I confess that I do not remember exactly how Danmerk was referred to on the committee's discussion on this point. However, it is in accordance with the regulations of the bill that are being introduced into certain aspects of a so-called Prüm meeting that is involved in the cooperation of European police authorities, particularly in the fight against terrorism and organized crime. It has been thought that to introduce this Prüm meeting, it would be necessary to undergo certain legal adjustments here that a state police officer, under certain circumstances, might decide that foreign police officers can exercise police authority in this country, either head of the state of police, directly or other police officials, to take the official's approval, as it is said. I don't think there's ever been a dispute between us, if I remember correctly, and I think that there may be a right and important situation. But what is guaranteed in this case is that custody and decision - making options to determine whether such a license is granted will always be granted by the government and, especially, the State Marshal.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u65	Mr. President. In 1st. on this subject, I mentioned that I thought that it was very important to take action. This is a big, big case, and I would have thought it normal to have been done in total with new police shapes and then to be in a careful discussion. We know that the highest. The prime minister apologized to the former defendants in a so - called Guðmund and Geirfjörn case we all know and to their victims for their injustice. The big thing, where the justice system failed, and where there were many factors in government lawsuits, is most important to study treatment. So we see how important it is to take time for such activities as this and take total control of police law. First, I'd like to step aside from the police force of foreign police officers. In Comb 4. The bill says: ◯ At 9. The law will be added to a new paragraph, as follows: Foreign police officers who come to work here in the country. 1.mg. 1 1. a go with police authority.• This new arrangement, Article 11. a, says the U.S. Marshals decides whether foreign police officers in this country should exercise police authority. Mr. President. I believe this is a very broad source, who makes such a decision. If we look e.g. of comparable regulations in the 20th chapter. The Norwegian police law says that police law can, in exceptional cases, provide others except those listed in the law. There is also a special provision, for a-butt 20. ...of foreign policemen. Moreover, it states that in exceptional circumstances it is permitted to give them police authority. It must be made clear in this law, in my judgment, that there are exceptional cases and that there was a minister of justice for such a warrant. Such sources and support for her need to be in accordance with defined rules, be announcemental and regular monitoring - this is what I would like to establish about 20. As far as I'm concerned, it's important to look to the Norwegian law. It is very clear, and Norwegians make the habit of doing legal products very well, looking to experience, and taking great pride in these matters. Eight. The bill is addressed on the role of a surveillance committee, and I rightly believe, Mr. President, to add a follow-up role, e.g. in order that the Committee will conduct a yearly investigation of police activities, by interviews and analysis of police procedures and methodologies compared to the development of international activities, and then draw together the position and comments for the execution of police activities in the field of law enforcement, prevention and research. I mentioned here at the beginning of the so-called Guðmundur and Geirfjörn case, and it's not long since the Supreme Court came to its conclusion, we know it. On the basis of this and comparable foreign cases, there is good reason to pay close attention and communicate with the public clear comments and suggestions on police reforms, whether in the field of public law, prevention, or research. This approach is to use a comparable ideologies as it is to the research committee of transport accidents, as it were, or as an example where the objective is, and the NTSB puts it, to identify the more successful factors and make a suggestion for improvement. This is not done in a targeted way. A dramatic mistake was made in the Guðmunds and the Gergents, and it has been made in comparable cases. This mistake has been made, for example. the word for complacency. Since a monitoring committee and its review committee would have an opportunity to listen to employees and to see what might be done better. We'll do it, for example. When it's time for the Schengen team. Then there's a foreign patrol to see how we're doing what we have to do with the Schengen community service. When the committee was last met, her conclusion was that there were many things to be fixed and, in fact, significant improvements were required. The government responded, and they made a considerable amount of money to respond to their comments. We need to be on guard and be aware of the details that many in the police are aware of, but they are not systematically and regularly drawn out so that governments can respond. There must be a channel for such a committee or group of people to implement a procedure, methodology, and approach to police activities to make the service more meaningful and more specific, and we can prevent the above - mentioned issues that have caused many much heartache and hurt feelings, as we know. Let's take control of a pilot. He is assigned to investigate or cross over if something goes wrong, even if it is not a criminal case. The objective, then, is to find some small factors that can have great consequences for those involved. The objective is also to listen to the criticism of employees and others who criticize the system. In the approach to receiving the complaint about police activity, it has been forgotten that those working within it may be interested in doing better and that their field of work is better handled. However, they need a platform to make this point. I've heard this in my chats with those who work in the police department. Mr. President. I'm just going to step back to what I just came up with, and that is, with the police authority of foreign policemen. In 1st. This case seemed to me to be the highest. The Minister of Justice skated a little over and made a little fun of all that when I asked her about this important aspect of the bill. She simply said that there wouldn't be buses full of American police officers. This case is more serious than people joking about something that's got to do with it, and least of all, the chief officer of the police, i.e. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Minister of Justice. As I mentioned earlier, in the case of foreign police authorities, I do not see a comparable law in the Danish law, from 2019 in terms of the police authority of foreign police, which is comparable to that of the 14th grade. Police law, No. 90/1996, over the use of force, authorized by police authorities in carrying out their duties. Never, though, should they go beyond the use of power. In comparison, the Danish law elaborates on when a particular form of force is allowed, e.g. when to apply firearms, bats, etc. On the basis of the laws and clear sources, it is further stated in the Regulation that the Danish Minister of Justice can then appoint. Therefore, we do well to consider whether it is necessary to include in the laws comparable to that of the Mosaic Law. It would be peaceful to find answers to whether this was discussed on the committee. I said here at the beginning, Mr. President, it would be normal for me to take over all the police laws and discuss them. There's a lot of things missing in this bill, and I think there should have been more than a look at the Norwegian and Danish law I've mentioned here. That law has many good things, and we should look to those nations and their experience in such matters, as we do in so many other ways. I don't feel that much is missing in this regard, i.e. Comparison of looking to the northern experience. At that time, I feel that this power supply of police authority is unclear, and without restrictions, it is not a successful step and the need to be very careful about it. There is no need for us to put some effort into such a critical situation. It can only be worse. It is vital that we look to all the viewpoints involved, for of course this is a very important matter and concern for all the citizens of this country. To say, Mr. President, I will close my case for now on this important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u66	Mr. President. All I wanted to do was judge what's going on in the bill on the police authority of foreign police officers. It says in the Bible at 6 C.E. par.Unable to connect to The police shall cooperate with foreign police authorities and international police agencies. In police investigation and the conduct of other law enforcement agents, the Federal Marshals, other marshals, and local prosecutors, are authorized to receive foreign police officers. During their stay, they operate under the direction and direction of the respective sheriffs, depending on incidents in agreement with the foreign police authorities. Then it says: The chief of police decides whether foreign police officers in this country should exercise police authority. There are other factors, but it is of course stated that a minister is permitted to establish further rules regarding cooperation with local authorities and other factors responsible for this. That's why I don't think there's any reason to worry that we're being handed over power. The custody of these cases will always be up to the Icelandic government, and those who work in this country will always be under Icelandic law.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u67	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for bringing this up and entering this important part of the bill. Hv. There was a senator who specifically identified a police officer and that he is authorized to do so. I would have thought, and mentioned it in my speech, that it had been more desirable to have been in the hands of a minister of justice. Of course, this will always be the custody of the government of the United States. I am aware of that. But it's just a delicate subject, and it's otherwise carried out in Denmark and Norway as I reviewed earlier, so it's my entry into this discussion that this is the custody of the chief officer of the police, I would have thought it would be desirable, which in this case is the Minister of Justice. Thank you. A senator for sharpening this here and for the listeners, the text is fine in this regard, but they can debate whether this should not be the guardianship of the Minister of Justice. That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u68	A respectable president. I just wanted to establish this bill on the execution and administration of the state of the country and the courts and the changing of police law which has this foundation: police surveillance, police council, etc. Of course, this is mainly in response to indications, including From GRECO O.B., and be explaining and sharpening several aspects of this matter, which I consider full need, although, of course, the law may go through in its entirety and examine them further. The community has entrusted the police with the authority to enforce our decisions, i.e. Governments, and to uphold law and order in our society. To this end, we have authorized the police to use power in certain circumstances and when circumstances demand it. We know that there is great responsibility for all authority, both for the one who has it and for the one who exercises it. All power demands independent and vigorous management and control, and its importance increases with the higher power. Control of authority must be trustworthy, and it must also be real. Thus, the presence of effective police surveillance is a key, as is the case with other community power institutions. It is of utmost importance to protect the rights of our citizens, and I'm pretty sure that making the city more confident of the success of the police and the blessedness of the country's trust is further strengthened. It may also be said that this is just as important to police officers themselves. Such supervision can play a key role in drawing that line into the sand what kind of police power is permitted to wield and when it is too far gone. Thus, such a committee as the review board is important in building the work of the police and in providing direction for police officers. Then the citizens must also be able to discern the authority of the police and what to look for in case of doubts about the operation of the police. This may be what we have been discussing most of the time when we have been discussing these matters, i.e. Police surveillance clearances. In the years I've been sitting on a global and educational committee and discussing these specific matters, the job and role of a surveillance committee have been called into question several times. Of course, it is very important that there is good and strong transparency in that work and that all can assume what their responsibilities are, as mentioned in the Committee, i.e. The duties of the district attorney, the district attorney and the police manager and the cooperation required for such a committee to function in a natural way. A respectable president. I like it. Even though the changes may not be many and may not be too extensive, they do improve. We need to keep on doing this and make these laws even better.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u69	Madam President. I just wanted to talk about the situation here. A positive fact is that police surveillance is being given a commission to take sides with the complaints she is learning about the critical behavior and practices of the police. On the other hand, I have to make comments at 6. The bill that, as mentioned earlier, gives the authority to give police authority to foreign police officers on the land. By means of the legal arrangement, a minister has some opportunity to expand the cooperation of police with foreign police authorities in the Regulation, but there is no need for the legal process itself to be sufficiently limited. It will not be easy to legalize giving non-political police permission to proceed with police authority without further specifying the law itself as to which it involves precisely. If a foreign cop happens, for example. burglary in the work of a local country, how can it be monitored and treated? Is the police limited to some extent? How is there information available to those who come here to work? The same could be said of Icelandic police officers who would use police authority abroad. What does it mean that they have the same rights and responsibilities there? What if they become guilty of foreign jobs? Authority must always be clear and clear in the law. Police officials have the authority to interfere with citizens and need to be moderate in the use of their power. Police assessment in Iceland, however, will be considered widespread in the application of quite a number of rules. What's it gonna look like when a foreign police force gets authority in Iceland? Will they be educated in the moderate way they go along, or will they be able to give greater interpretation of the current legal assessment? What if a person is charged with violating authority if he or she is a foreign police officer? Will it be possible to accuse individuals of these offenses? And if we look at the other side, will the person have the right to sue foreign police officers who go beyond their authority? Will the national police be assured that they will be educated in Icelandic legal arrangements? They need to be considered, taking into account the rights of the citizens by this change of law. It doesn't say anything about ensuring that a person maintains his rights to the police, whether it's Icelandic police abroad or foreign police that comes here to the country. So I wondered if the rights of individuals to the administration are sufficiently guaranteed by the introduction of these documents. The directive is not clear enough and is very open and gives the minister a wide scope of regulations.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u70	V.E.G. President. In the beginning, I'm going to refer to what I've said before, it's clear that it's on the basis of the U.S. Marshals if foreign police officers are given authority here and Icelandic law on it. So I don't have to worry about those factors in particular. With regard to police surveillance committees, I agree with viewpoints that have been presented here in discussions on that subject. I believe it is important that the committee, in fact, who is only a few years old, assumes that it does not need, as may be suggested by the committee's words, to have a lot of information taken from office but that it is only a normal part of the management committee's handling and individual provisions to provide all the information needed and is called to provide the correct light of the situation and other relevant matters. I think the review board has an enormously important role, and I think it is extremely important for the police to see that there is a surveillance committee and that there is no doubt that they can successfully perform their surveillance. I think this will lead to increased confidence in the police, increased confidence in the surveillance board, and a public trust that the system works as it works, that this will strengthen it. With regard to other viewpoints that have been presented during the discussion, I was just going to mention that here, of course, there is no total review of the law. This is a review of certain aspects of the police law. But as referred to in a report on the original bill, there are, of course, other factors that concern the police law and here, as one says, just to discuss a step toward changing and improving the police work environment in terms of the legal environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u71	A respectable president. I don't know what language would be more appropriate to discuss only prejudice and how to deal with ordinary citizens in everyday life. We in Pirates have been calling from the beginning to set up some kind of external checkup, an independent surveillance of jobs and police procedures. We've moved a case to achieve that goal, and, actually, it was approved here at some point, in fact, by some change to meet the greater part of the time. This case is a sign that one is being stepped up, and then there is disagreements about another, as it happens. But I've noticed in the talks here today, and in fact, always in the Council on the Police, that we have certain foreign people in our house, and I plan to speak to the police all the time or as much as we can. There are in itself very decent reasons for that. First, it is important that the work of the police in Iceland is acceptable, just as it is important for people to believe that they have real access to justice in courts. It is important that people believe that the police have real access to justice and righteous treatment. But it is, of course, a respectable president, and I am about to begin to offend someone, that we live in human society. Now I'm just going to preach about human society. Human society evolved over hundreds of millions and billions of years, and the animal species of which we are part is about 80,000,200,000 years old, depending on exactly what we mean, and there are never really lines in this study. In this process of evolution, we have adopted and are subject to faults. One of the advantages we have is that when we hear some scary noise, for example, we can assess the situation very quickly, not necessarily correctly, but extremely quickly and take immediate action. If we hear frightening screams or see frightening behavior, we will immediately know that we are to fight or flee or anything. That is not necessarily the right decision, but it is taken very quickly. In the jungle or in the caves or in the most primitive environment we live in today, this behavior is causing us to survive more. We are more likely to survive when we are constantly fighting wild beasts or things that we understand too badly to deal with them by other means. This choice results in making decisions without having all the basis for making them right. This is not something that evolved among us to see the world as it really is. Rather, it is to respond as rapidly as we can in times of distress to survive and nothing else. The parallel effect of this nature, which evolutionally sees is probably very beneficial, is that we are quite vulnerable to prejudice. When we hear a language we do not know, it may seem harsh or stupid, and when we see people who are different from us in some way, it is shorter to be fearful or filled with hatred for it or in one way or another with a lot to fill in the gaps and give us things that we simply do not know. It is prejudice in nature, a respectable president, when we give ourselves something we do not know about individuals. The reason I'm taking this into account with our entire species is because I don't want to take police officers out of any particular obstacle in these matters. Rather, I'm simply suggesting that police are individuals of this same species, Homo sapiens, depending on the same limitations and have the same prejudice. Of course, a respected president, there is no reason to believe that certain professions or societies are in some amazing way superior to having the ability to make wrong decisions but quickly. When police are doing their jobs, often a thankless job, and a difficult job, which is addressed in my opinion, they find themselves in situations where they have to make decisions very fast and, of course, these individuals of this species, homo sapiens, will use the method of filling in the gaps when it comes to their dealings with the common people. That is why people who tend to end up at the council - perhaps previously in respectable jobs and with good education, generally do not have problems with the police or social problems in general before they go to the council - they trust the police pretty well because they know the sides they show when they don't have to fill in the gaps, when the policeman comes from the same culture, looks the same way, even of the same sex, after the incident, and the like, have the same historical background, may have the same thing, laughs at the same jokes. Of course, it does not take much to fill in the gaps. However, in the case of individuals who are not of the same template, prejudice is likely to manifest itself. A respectable president. I'm not just saying it, but because last year we talked about it exactly. It was the flags and symbols of police uniforms that are used by subterfuge, at least in some context, that people who are exposed to Rasism are different from those who never occur to them, at least not here. What motivates me to give this talk is not really that it happened. It comes as no surprise to me that in a world that changes rapidly, where people just don't have the same information, one thing is said that is insensitive afterward to think. Then you can apologize and try to improve in the future. But the reaction I heard back then was denial, a respectable president. It was denial. It's so difficult for me because it makes me feel like there's nothing going to improve, or at least little, that it'll be okay any more slowly. This worries me because we all have prejudiced, dignified presidents. We're all racists in one way or another. Some of us are more aware of this than others. Some of us may be more pleased about it than others, and some of us will turn these primitive feelings into some form of ideologies, which the greater part will then deny, rightly. But it's in all of us, including the police. We must not pretend that we have something different with police officers than with other individuals of this same animal of which we are alive. In a unique community like Iceland, it is not surprising that there is a lot of confidence in the police when an overwhelming majority of the population do not get into being different from much of it. In Iceland today, there is a fairly large group that is different in various ways, and he does not need to be that big so that we should talk about it rather openly than it has become rather big. It's only good in my opinion, the diversity is very good and healthy for communities, Icelandic society as well as others. However, prejudice is not merely displayed by recently spoken groups, saying people with darker colors than most of Icelanders or people of different sexes or with different sexual tendencies or anything else. There are also people who don't fit in one way or another, people who dress just differently than almost everyone else, people who act a little different than almost everyone else, people who talk only differently from almost everyone else. It is difficult for a respected president to plan to deal quickly in situations where such individuals are involved without filling in the gaps, without any prejudice to some extent. We're just supposed to face this because that's how we can start the conversation about how it's possible to prevent these prejudices from affecting the rights of the citizens and thus reduce the confidence of these specific groups or individuals on the police. But it's also key that we realize that, as noble as it sounds to call the police and always make things go wrong as if there's just one person in the community, there are groups in Iceland who don't know the police because they're always different. They always look different, they always speak differently than the overwhelming majority, even almost all the time incomprehensible because they have no common language with those they interact with. There are people who are always in this position and who will never be distorted, who will never find peace to be different in a variety of ways. These people also need to be able to trust the police. There is also a need to be able to trust secular authorities in general. And then nothing for us who belong to the greater part almost all of it, share the same story, look more or less like it, at least are very similar in colour, pretending that this is not a problem or trying to enhance the image beyond what it is. I'd like to mention, though, in spite of this fist that I think must have irritated someone, and it's just to have it, that it's an independent problem what police are being paid, trained, and subjugated. Recently, training has improved by turning police school into a university degree, but the pay has failed to follow up the hopes of the day. In my opinion, it's a key figure that police officers are well paid. Every day, when they get into all the other things that we generally don't have to imagine, they're supposed to at least. not to experience a lack of gratitude on the part of the community or the authorities who speak so highly of them here in a pit. Rather, they feel the pressure to show respect for their duties. You see, I think it's going both ways. Reading in human relationships in general has a tendency to turn into a vicious circle, and it is important to break out of the cycle. We cannot and should not try to change our community so that it will be ludicrous. In fact, in my opinion, it's a completely different goal. We don't have control over people being different or gay, hopefully not at least. Similarly, in one day, we cannot, as the authority and the legislature as a law, simply suggest some law that makes people stop being prejudiced. It will be very late to change, a respectable president, in itself. What we can do is break the penalty for the police itself, by paying the officers enough, giving them back the strike rights - I think it's a big spot on our society that not long ago has been done - making it possible for police officers to have real respect from the authorities for their jobs because they're underrated, I suppose, not just by the authorities, but by the public. To fix our problems, however, we need to recognize them. And while it may be difficult and may seem unfair at first to face them or mention them and talk about them aloud, I want to finish this speech by saying to the officers who are supposed to hear that I mention these points of the only ambition that police work best and that the ambitions of policemen, which I know to protect the rights of the citizens, will be respected for the most.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u72	V.E.G. President. I now present a committee opinion with a bill-change proposal to legalize the college law, No. 63/2006, and government law, No. 85/2008, for access conditions. I'm just gonna grab off the bill's report, which includes... Review its main subject, its motive, its need for law, and all the consequences of the matter. The bill primarily includes the change in college access conditions, as reflected by the name, so rather than the primary completion of a student's study of the student's study, there is a new requirement for students to pass the final exam from high school on a third stage. As a result of this change, university should be in line with student skills, skills, and knowledge, not an obstacle to those who have passed a second final test of a third degree of performance, according to the high school's primary education to start a university course. As a result, the bill includes increasing the level for study regardless of the student's different way of study and the final exams of high school students. In addition, the bill is designed to encourage a university to set clear, clear guidelines on what abilities, knowledge, and skills are needed for special courses. The reason for legislation is that a student's test has long been viewed as the principal inclusion criteria at a university that has led to the failure of students who have a different final test since high school on the same stage of education, but they have not always had the right to enter college. In addition, local expressions do not provide sufficient incentive for a university to shape a transparent and clear access point for students who have completed their trade and education. It is necessary to evaluate the actual abilities, while the qualifications allow students, schools and employers and other stakeholders to see the potential and ability of students at the end of the study, as well as to benefit from the transparency of the criteria in general as well as to be an important part of external monitoring of the quality of school. Like I said before, the highest. President, in the case of the case, the policies and jobs done in the Ministry since 2007 were very successful, but the policy activities of 2007/2008 were very extensive. At that time, five prime newscasts appeared, covering all the points of school. A white book was then presented for education reform published by the Ministry of Education and Culture in 2014 on the status of the Icelandic Education System. Here is a development project on professional university education that was initiated in 2016. Despite these changes, not all students who have completed high school have had access to university education, especially those who have graduated from high school. In the past, the minister of education and cultural culture has been endeavoring to match the status of students who have passed a different final test from high school. This emphasis is reflected in a proposal to adopt a learning policy arrangement by the Council now adopted by the Council before Easter. In education, it also states that work, industry and technology are essential for sustainable employment in Iceland and that there is a high demand for working and technologically educated people in this country. A report on the future plans for professional university education in 2018 revealed that it was necessary to eliminate obstacles to further education. This bill thus follows a goal. In short, my highest. President, is the aim of this case to make university studies more accessible and at the same time to respond to the labour market's call for a more diverse education, especially professional and technical education. In discussing the matter with the committee. It is stated in the committee's opinion that numerous visitors came before the committee and sent in envelopes. I'm not going to read all of them, but their reviews were very helpful to members of the committee. Most were favorable to the bill, and the changes were long - term. In contrast, there was a view to the need for adequate preparation for university studies. Law on High School, No. 92/2008, only to take into account the needs of students who intend to pursue university studies but not to require other training courses at third stage. Still, they should test public access to university. It would be preferable to distinguish the final tests, which give public access to university education and try to provide limited access. Then the bill can influence Iceland's contracts with other countries on mutual recognition of study. The greater part highlights the importance of equalizing the potential for students who complete a third-grade test of high school education. In the context of this, however, the more part is entitled to believe that the bill does not guarantee a university education access. Along with these changes, it is important that colleges meet clear and clear criteria for studies in individual departments that also take into account their skills, skills, and knowledge of students irrespective of their means of study and final high school tests. Such standards tend to guide high school in the planning and production of academic courses, informative for students on intake conditions, easier category of applications in college, and use college, high school, and students. In this way, the more part stresses the need for good consultation between university and high school levels in these areas. The majority suggest changes that are not meant to have a material effect but that should contribute to greater harmony between different layers of law. First of all, the bill refers to a three - third performance of ◯. Laws on education, ability, and guidance of teachers and school directors at high school, elementary school, and high school, no. 95/209, a serial number is used or referred to ◯3. &lt; 1/100) &gt; &gt; &lt; 1/1,000 &gt; &lt; 1/1,000 &gt; &gt; &lt; 1/1,000 &gt; &lt; 1/1,000 &gt; &gt; &lt; 1/1,000 &gt; &lt; 1/1,000 In order to improve the correlation between different law columns dealing with the same subject, a greater proportion suggests that a serial number will be used in the bill. This is, as I say, only done to keep harmony and normal that it is done. Second, in the bill's headline analysis, the term has been used for the terms "message conditions." The majority points out that in other laws dealing with school subjects, the term "characterization criteria " is used. The same argument as for the earlier changes in the majority of the segments is suggested to replace the term'supposed conditions' in the material analysis when the term "conclusions " should be applied to the term" take place. " According to the above, the greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following changes: 1st Instead of the words, a third of their ability to perform. and twice in pars. Come on: 3rd performance level. 2. The bill's headline is as follows: The bill to correct a college and government law (investigation criteria). Under these words, the one that stands here. Chairman of the General and Education Committee, Páll Magnússon, Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir Thorsson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Birgir Ármannsson, Olga Margrét Cilia, Árnadóttir Eurnar Aarnadótir, and Sabídur Gunntilótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u73	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir for the Commission and the General and Education Committee for reporting on this important bill. So I'm totally all for it. The reason I'm saying this is because I've moved at least twice myself, even three times, similar to the bill, i.e. Their goals are the same. V.E.G. The minister of Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörn, then why. A senator, in fact, moved a bill ahead of me. The case I delivered is No. 269 of this council, and I'm on the General and Education Committee, and of course I don't expect it to be decommissioned from there by a release of the administrative bill available here, but I just wanted to be able here because it was exactly the goal that it wasn't in the law that it was required for a student test. I think it's so important that we watch diversity in education and experience, and it's mine that we don't know what time it is with time that we're specifying it in law from the Council to college to whether they're public or not, it's actually forbidden to receive students unless they've run out of student exams. It has, in fact, been some of the rules, and many are familiar with the rules of age and such. But I think it's very important that this is changed, and the colleges decide for themselves what they're using. One of the biggest things you can think of is industrial education. We've been talking about how important it is, and we don't need everyone to go to college at all. However, it may be possible, both for the individual but especially for the community, for a person who has studied industrially and who has taken a test in his trade and who works on it even for some time, to enter a university later on. I think it can be a great deal of money, and actually it's not easy to make a requirement for people with good education and experience on their backs to turn in units of someone else's father to study that they may be able to do their part and do. So I'm just glad that this case is running out, even though it wasn't the bill I suggested. It's only a matter of approach to the project, but I think it's an important matter that we should agree with.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u74	A respectable president. I hereby present an opinion with a change form from a greater part of the health committee on bill to legalize the legislation on the affairs of immigrants, the acceptance of refugees, and the council of immigrants. This case was passed through the welfare committee last year, and we completed it and supplied a committee program, but it was not completed here at the Senate Hall, so it's moved back. Of course, we discussed it on the committee, and we have received visitors on the subject, and there were nine reviews. The bill suggests changes to import law, including import laws. to hide a wider role because of the concerted hostilities of refugees by hiding the Agency to provide professional guidance and counselling in connection with the reception of refugees, in various ways. The bill is reassigned and referred to on a 457 case at the 150th legislation meeting. The majority suggest the same viewpoint as most of the welfare committee did during the previous council. The committee held the view that in the laws and regulations to receive refugees and services from them as well as in the case of immigrants, it is urgent to consider especially the circumstances and needs of disabled people in general, especially children and young ones. It was also noted that because of lack of proper support, disabled people of foreign background could be deprived of a legal service. It was also found that it was desirable to have a cross-border mixture of immigrants with respect to a representative within the council, a very effective area of counseling that supports the work of recruitment. The Commission's review has also provided views on the importance of effective and formal consultation with key members involved in the matter of refugees and to ensure the need to identify the parties in Article 3. a-arms 2. The bill. The majority of the countries believe that it is important for us to investigate which people are coming to welcome refugees in Iceland each time and whether there are active stakeholders for that group. The majority further stress that vulnerable groups and stakeholders will be called if needed. The majority also stress that consultations will be made with health institutions. The Commission gave a reference to the European Union of rural society that there may be a need for Social Affairs to save a special fund, a response fund, helping rural society to meet unexpected costs in connection with the acceptance of refugees. The majority point to the Ministry to assess the need for such measures and, depending on events in agreement with the European Union. The Commission reviewed the view that 2 paragraph 2 was unclear. The bill on whether a multi-cultural facility should provide advice on the basis of individuals who are given the status of fugitives and humanitarians in this country, but not because of individuals who are stateless and who receive international protection on the basis of 37rd. Is God a God of Peace? No. 80/2016, which is not defined as refugees. An definition of the term international protection can be found in Article 3. the law of foreigners, and that includes refugees, those who receive humanitarian permission, those who receive additional protection and the statelessness, and therefore are more appropriate than the concept of refugees if it is intended to reach all those who receive international protection. The majority agree with the earlier view that the concept of refugees is unclear, taking into account the rules of the laws for foreigners. The majority of the articles with the bill show that the concept of refugees refers to those who have received a status of refugees on the basis of either 1 or 2 mg. Thirty-seven. the law of foreigners, of individuals who have been granted reimbursement because of family unity with a fugitive who has been in position at the age of 37. the same law, of individuals who have received an appeal for international protection and who are granted a permit on the basis of rich humanitarian policies, according to Article 1. 74. g. The same laws as those offered by the Icelandic government to settle down in Iceland, in cooperation with the United Nations Refugee Organization, as stated by 43 C.E. Same song. In paragraph 1, paragraph 3. law on foreigners is the term international protection defined as the protection of individuals who search here and meet the criteria of A- team 1. The International Convention on Refugee Status, the Protection That is given on the basis of additional protection and protection regulations granted to the stateless people under the Convention on the Rights of Unauthorized Persons from 1954. The definition therefore extends, e.g. not available for persons authorised on the basis of section 74.g. the law of foreigners. As an explanation of the coherence of the multi-cultural conventions, in agreement with rural society, the majority of the segments suggest that, instead of ordering the reception to make refugees, they are included in the directive to which individuals should receive the convention, with reference to the proper legal requirements. A greater proportion also contributes to changing the bill's headline in line with the above changes made to the individuals to whom they are being received. Then I prefer the personal protection, but to the Committee there were various opinions about personal protection, including that there is a greater need to clarify the purpose of the processing of personal information with reference to the role and activities of the Multi-Semitic site. The Committee explained that the role of the Multiculture site includes the role of a member of the United States organization. in holding up the invitation of hostilities and services to refugees who have entered the country on the basis of a law on foreigners. This includes forming a pair of individuals with rural communities based on the fact that some basic information is available so that rural communities can be selected that can best meet individual needs. In the implementation of this role, a multicultural facility needs to collect information from rural communities in view of certain factors relevant to the establishment of the population, such as the possibility of education, access to needed health care, employment opportunities, and transportation. You also have to gather information about the people's own circumstances. In view of the greater part and in the light of the explanations presented to the Committee, the role of the Multi-Creation Centre is clear in the bill, where the mansion provides a perspective. help connect individuals with rural communities who can meet the needs of the individual in the best way possible. In order to perform this role, the set must work with personal information about individuals in order to obtain a company service that fits the needs of individuals best. There was an opinion that blurred the need for a multicultural profile is necessary to cooperate with sensitive personal information, e.g. information on social status, genetic information and biochemistry. There is a greater need for a clear understanding of the type of personal information that a multi-human home is authorized to cooperate as a result of its role, and it also requires a clearer understanding of the purpose of such a process of identity. The committee explained that a multicultural site will not collect life information. The information it will work with includes information about how people come from, their experiences, their traumas, education information, previous employment and family interests, national background and health information, in order to evaluate the need for service. The Committee sought comments from the Department of Social Affairs that it stated that a multiethnic site would not be permitted to obtain sensitive data unless clearly necessary or that information collection is not made due to the nature of the case. The source proposed for b-axis 2.gr. Hence, the bill is essential so that a multicultural site can fulfill its role, i.e. to pair rural societies and individuals based on individual needs and the abilities of the local community. For example, it is possible for health care, housing, and family needs to be chosen. The majority feel that it is urgent to improve the reception of protective individuals who have a real need for increased support when they arrive in the country. Therefore, it is important that the communities that respond to protecting individuals be able to provide extra space for them and that decisions are made on the basis of adequate data. Thus, it may be necessary to work with personal information, including sensitive personal information, in order to fulfill its role in the concerted reception of persons with protection and the pairing of municipal partners and individuals. It is important that those with special needs or the need for medical or social care are mated to a receptional group group that can be in line with the needs of the individual, as per Figure 8 of the 1st. 1 1. Law on Personal Protection and the implementation of Personal Information, No. 90/2018. It is also important to develop sensitive personal information based on clear laws and thus contribute to a change that guarantees the implementation of personality information, including sensitive personal information on the health and ethnic background of individuals for the above purposes. The review of the Federal Protection of the Committee referred to a panel of welfare committees as to the bill from the previous council and stated that the Agency did not comment on the implementation of the bill in the way it was suggested. However, the Agency pointed out that the impact of the production of the Multi-Creation Centre on Personal Information was not being conducted. If such evaluations were not performed in the preparation of legislation, it would be better for the press to perform this assessment before making personal information. The majority agree with this Persian protection indication. Educational duty. The review of the Committee has provided a view that the Agency is not clearly identified as referred to in Article 3. b-joints 2. gr. The bill on whether or not the obligation to provide the registered information on the processing of personal information at a Multi-human site or whether it applies to the institution that provides personal information to a multi-human site. It is reasonable that there is a duty resting in the House of Germany, where education is being carried out in connection with the existing communications of the public places. The majority of the shares feel that it is an improvement to make a 3rd-mg word change. b-joints 2. gr. The direct reference to the mass civilization site is made to the established organisation and therefore adds to the rest of the matter's change. Then comes the adjustment proposal in line with what I have stated here. The majority suggest that the bill be accepted by that change. Hv. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this. Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir and Ásmundur Friðriksson were away at the hearing. Under the heading "Helga Helgadóttir Velga daughter of the Chairman, Kristjánsdóttir Signý Kristoffsdótttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Guðmundur In Kristinsson, Ingi Mogensen, and Vilhjálmur Árnason. Well, then I've made that opinion clear. I hope we have good luck to accept this bill and there's no stopping here in a Senate hall like they did last year, what's the motive I don't know. But it was very strange to me that this fine language was not available for release. I'm very sorry if some political group in this room takes on the idea of being very strangely rasic about this bill and considers it to be a failure, since the President of the United States has the task of paying for the relations of people of different backgrounds and promoting the services of immigrants living here in Iceland. This does not indicate any circumstances, but it must be very important for those who are seated here to be immediately informed about the services available. We can tell ourselves that if people don't go directly to the circumstances they best meet, they only cost more money. That's why we spend time, unnecessary time even, police and social authorities helping to be just a good citizen of the country and to participate in the society we're offering. This role is a multicultural role, and it plays an important role in the relationship between the people who are coming here and the rest of the countries and rural communities, and we all need to look for ways to live in Iceland. The task is to provide advice and information to governments, companies, companies and individuals. I don't know when information, service information, status information, can get in trouble. It also has the responsibility to monitor the development of immigrants in society, including the U.S. with information, research, analysis and information sharing. It has an important role in communicating with ministers, emigrants, and other governments, indications and suggestions on how all individuals can be active members of the community regardless of nationality or background. For multicultural information on everyday life in Iceland, management and assistance on transport to and from the country. I propose to all the classes here at the council to show this bill understanding and allow it to get out and to support it because it's important and all the exercise in this relationship, I think there's a problem in the coming election for the group who intends to speak against it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u75	Madam President. I just wanted to ask you what. A senator on one point, but I now have to say that I feel that it is a last word. The senator was a very strange person, indicating - no one was mentioned as a political party - that there was a political party with racist speeches and ideas in these matters, and no one has said anything but a word. Senator. It's a very strange presentation, Madam President. I have to say it exactly as it is. I'm getting closer to this even. ... becauseof mybeing on a budget board. I must be made a member of the budget board of the state's budget, and this case is not considered at any cost, not on the board of budgetors. It is clear that the Ministry of Justice has recognized that a large number of applications have grown in recent years and that this is the best service for the trustees and is about to start improving this service further with this bill. Last year, we hosted 85 guessworkers, while 631 trust workers were granted deposit here, and they are about to improve their service to this large group. A single eater costs about 6 million. K. every year. Has a what? A senator's concern is not that this will result in significant financial cost? The ministry is being increased, and it is expensive. Then there is the message being sent out that the field service is being added even more so to that already existing group. [[The president calls.]] It will mean that there will be several times more applications here, I think that's perfectly clear. In case of a moment. A senator could go over it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u76	A respectable president. Hv. A senator is worried about my words. I'm just saying, "If they have it, take it to them." I'm really worried about the costs that happen if we're not going to inform the people we're taking so far. It's not a Foreign Institute, it's a Méggiont. It is not up to them to accept applications. If we are going to receive people and not give them the information they need, I simply ask them, " What are the costs, and who will pay them? ' When we took that bill back for discussion, we received an employee, the newly appointed head of the Multicreature, to us, and it informed us that people had already been hired. I think there was one or two employees coming in, and there was a budget for it and it was made to their point that it had been financed in part, but of course we cannot foresee the future how much this will be. We'll have to deal with it, then. I hope so. A senator who serves on a financial committee would show consideration for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u77	Madam President. Thank you. Senator. Everyone's getting information about the services available here, i.e. This information is already available to those who take refuge in the land. However, the ministry is being improved, receiving more than what they receive today. That's what it's all about. You cannot hide behind the fact that money is being placed in a multicultural facility to provide information. They're already there. There is, however, improvement in the ministry, and it is a message that is being sent in the world that this is a better service than ever, and it was very good and one of the best in Europe. I'm concerned that there will be a lot more trustees in this area than they do today because they look to where the service is best. We just have to realize that we can't save the world. We can't help everyone, now that's the way it is. This group of paintings costs 4 billion bucks. In fact, each year he increased to an extra budget of some 400 million, even though the number of residents in the shelterers'homes was reduced. This was made clear by increases in housing and pay, etc. This group of paintings has become very expensive, and as long as there are rules in the North, we're evacuating them here in Iceland. It only means one thing, we get more applications here, and it costs more money. And where to get that money, boy? Senator? Now that a government fund has never been so debted, it is to be added to something that is completely unfundable, as was said here before and before. In fact, a senator said that she hoped that the cost would not be great. This bill involves a fundamental change that makes the financial cost increase, and it is something that must be answered, where that money should come from.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u78	A respectable president. If they're so good, this information people get - and I'm taking it back again that it's not a foreign agency that allows people to have and doesn't take care of it, it's turning around to provide better information. By the bill it was concluded that there would be a better source of information. I have, for example. Another conference with Developmental Help that stated that information supply was especially lacking, i.e. for the needs of children, and even for adults who were looking for protection here and who were given leaves, but who had certain disabled or developmental difficulties. This information was missing. When people came out into society, the cost would be greater because they failed to provide this information and could find an acceptable service. This turns to the fact that once we've taken these people to us, it's not about whether we're going to increase the number of immigrants, there's another bandage that's gonna take care of them. There's just no discussion on this bill. It's about that we've taken our people and we're just going to give them the service available here. Should we stop service to these people? Is it the answer to stop serving the immigrants who come here? What for? To get rid of them again?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u79	Madam President. I come up mostly to celebrate the bill and to thank the head of the welfare committee for the transfer of committees. It is a pleasure to be able to strengthen the resources we have had regarding refugees for whatever reason they come to Iceland and thereby strengthen the scope of those who are foreign in Icelandic society, all kinds of immigrants, who have become several members of the Icelandic nation, probably 14% of the population. We've become quite international in Iceland, but I'm sure we can argue about it, and it sounds to me in the language of those in this chamber that we're not in the mood to talk about being multicultural. I just wanted to ask you what. A pilot to the bill. It says that the site of mass civilization should be strengthened by a continuation of its residence in Iceland and a work post in the city of Reykjavík. In view of the fact that immigrants and refugees live in many parts of the country, does the Senate feel that there are more special staff around the country - I think of an employment agency that is in part dealing with projects related to this?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u80	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yeah, I think so. In fact, the United States area of Germany, whether located in Isafjordur or in Reykjavík, has been responsible for rural activities throughout the country and throughout the world. We have also come to the point where there is much electronic communication, but in all the institutions of the State, we need to have some knowledge and control of the affairs of these people. But I don't think there are any problems with the fact that there are no branches from the United States in many other locations, and there are no doubt even now that are taking part in this role, which is affecting these people. I think it matters, and it's important that in every institution that handles this - and in the rural community, it's a lot on their level - professional knowledge and experience. The role of a multicultural centre is to provide governments, companies, organisations and individuals, counseling and information on the affairs of immigrants, and these members can consult a multicultural site if they need information.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u81	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir To answer, give Halla's Signý Kristjánsdóttir. How sad it was, in fact, to hear a debate! paritaprevir Þórarinsson, the middle - class son of Thorin, was trying to improve his ministry, improve quality, improve the attitude of these service recipients, who are totally strangers in an effort to make their way of life so that they can gain normal life, direct health care, pursue employment, study, use transportation, and so forth. Like what? paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir came in, we're not talking about how many immigrants, refugees, come to Iceland. It's done in another field. I just wanted to ask you what. Senator: This bill mainly involves the Ministry of Health, the Multiethracial and Refugees of Iceland. It is mentioned here in the bill that the Ministry of Health owns e.g. no longer a representative of the emigrant council they once had. The Department of Social Affairs owns two agents, but since the health factor is so important, is it not reasonable that a little rigid in getting a representative of the Ministry of Health? As a result, this is suggested by the committee, but the decision was not made to change the law at this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u82	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. The bill says: It is important that a representative of the health minister has access to the Importator Council, which includes the role of the Council to promote coordination and agreement between recruitment, rural society and administration. Therefore, the minister of health is suggested to appoint a representative of the committee. Now, I just have to admit that I don't know if the law will prevent representatives of the Ministry of Health from doing this. Of course, it would be very good to have a representative of the Ministry there. It is clear that this is a case that is particularly relevant to the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Justice, and just all the Ministry, the Ministry of Employment and any other. So I agree it was right in there.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u83	Madam President. We're here to discuss a bill of the highest order. Department of Social Affairs, with its specific content, explains that the main policy for increasing workers in a so - called Multicultural site was by two and a change of order in the Importer's Council so that a representative of the health - care minister would be there. Even so, this bill, which has been identified as a subject, provides a basis for discussing these topics in a larger context than the subject of the bill is directly involved. Madam President. The policy of immigrants, while at the same time received by inmates, has become a solution that no responsible politician can ignore. We have witnessed many times here and elsewhere, as is said today, framing this discussion, and then on questionable grounds, and with frequent shouts. In our neighboring countries and in most parts of Europe, these times may be named. Today, many communities that we look forward to amassing an action course in the past and working through these issues in hopes, as we see so clearly in Denmark, do not lose their communities in confusion and confusion. We're here at 2nd. On this matter, 1st. was a bit peculiar for many things, including that it was like the highest. A minister would be quite a student of the case, and persistent senators who participated in the discussion would be opposed to the teaching of Icelandic lovers or immigrants. There's no mention of Icelandic education in the bill, and I couldn't hear a storyteller talking about Icelandic teaching when she had a story for a member of the Committee. It was a little strange to see that the discussion here should be tried to kill on the tip of something completely different from what it is all about. The numbers speak clearly. They're designed to be found in the highest bill. Minister of Justice, an entire chapter referring to a change in the law of foreigners. It shows that nowhere in the North countries are as many applications for international protection as in this country according to an appeal number. This information is attributed to a reliable source, an Foreign Institute. It shows that there are six times the number of people applying here than in Norway and Denmark, six times, three times as many as in Finland, and even more than in Sweden. Surely we must wonder about those figures. We must face these numbers, and we must answer what they tell us. Of course, what is faced is that this welcome system is cracked, and it is also seen considering how much money this system requires. When you look at the policies in neighboring countries, it is only to see that we are becoming separate from them. It is only to see that we are here setting up a system they describe as mistakes. The strongest statement about this comes from the chairman of the Danish party who had brothers and sisters in the hall, perhaps alone now, and the party brothers. In her debate at the Danish Assembly of 6th October, on the meeting day of the council, she says that the course of the past is a mistake. She's using that word, making a mistake. It also says in this speech that the European takeover system is cracked and referred to as a natural offense in the Schengen community. I want to emphasize, when discussing this matter, that this, of course, is a delicate subject and should be discussed with respect. Hv. An executive for some committee party earlier might have shown a little more respect, at least. in choice of words, when she made it up to men that they had the least said a very abstract view of this matter. It's not a good idea, Madam President, to turn down opinions or debates about what comes into play. I believe it is certain, Madam President, that there is a great deal of support among the people that we contribute to the people who are living in the world's palaces. We've tried hard, but we could do much more. For years we have been involved in development cooperation, and especially through our participation in the World Bank, where we are in fact among founders of 1944 or 1945, I do not remember who was. There is a great deal of experience in this activity, and it has proved to be very effective. We, Madam President, need to weigh and weigh in the way we employ the limited funds we have for such projects. We need to make sure that this money is the best way to spend it. What is the best use? So it is best to reach as many people as possible and to those most in need. And then I'd like to allow myself to add, of course, that we should take special note of vulnerable groups and that I would especially mention women and children. Madam President. As I could about them, the Danish company for the Denmark government is the prime minister, Mette Frederiksen. I have previously allowed me to give a witness to the direction of the Danish party, which has much to do with a great deal of history and has proposed highly skilled leaders in the Danish political arena. The peer group published a strategy for the 2020 election, which has a title that might be translated: ▪ The sensuous and practical total plan for Danish foreign policy. This publication is called in the Danish language, so I correctly mention it, Retuldig and the quoted helhedspans for the Danish cryptolitik. There's a lot of stuff in 14 pages. I want to make sure that this publication consists of three basic chapters, and then they divide into a subsection. The first major section is: The number has meaning. There is a series of campaigns against the dates of religious tradition that once ruled in a dance - speaking culture that could not be talked about by the masses. Today, Danish figures say: The number has meaning. The second major part of the three are called, "We want to help more. That means, and is traced, including in talks and writing to a Danish minister, to use funds to help people who are close to home, it will become so much, far more useful there. That's where I believe our emphasis should be on lying, Madam President, i.e. On the one hand, as the Danes say, to help the people near home, to make the most of their money, to help many more. So with the other, stressing development teamwork. It was an interesting article published in the Morning Press by a young woman who is the assistant to the minister of foreign affairs written by Einarsdóttir Mist Einarsdóttt. It attributed to seeing 1,000 people in our cooperation countries, we have a cooperative community in Africa, where we have a two - side development team, wholesome water, and at the same time a hygienic state offered to people at an average of 4 billion. K. This contaminant system costs 4 billion a year, at least For 4 million, 1,700 children can be vaccinated. Isn't this a case we should be talking about here? Wholesome water, immunizations of children, schools, medical institutions? Madam President. The third straddle or the main part of the Danish policy plan of an peer bears the title: the new independence battle. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In a dance tongue, the word "Denoye frriedkamp." It is widely observed in this declaration of policy, but the ultimate issue is that the peer group rejects a definitively relevant policy in the seminary, i.e. The course that once ruled but the course that we seem to want to follow as zealously as possible. They report, and Mette Frederiksen has told talks, including those in their talk on October 6, 2020, that this past course caused serious injustices in which refugees put themselves at risk and in which sheepfolders, to be spoken of as mild, benefit from the calamity of others. It is the main policy of an ever-published dance group, with the bill of subject setting up a welcome station outside Europe so that it will be legally permitted to transfer those who knock on the door, who have made a long and life-threatening journey, many of course perished on the way, to such a welcome station. This is a message that the Danish government is sending out to the world. This is a very clear message: Don't come, because they're sending you to a reception station. The Norwegian government, in its cooperation declaration in the Treaty, says that it wants to be with Europe in this. Some Danish senators say the same thing, that this should not be Denmark's personal enterprise, but should be a European initiative, since this has been discussed at a summit in Europe, and it is known that many major and important European countries have plans in these matters. These include the Danish plate, Germany, and France. Madam President. This message from the Danish government is what it is, but what message are we sending? We are here discussing a bill that says to adopt a new statement here that refugees will be offered the same service as the hosting forces referred to, and these are particularly under government command, based on cooperation with the United Nations Refugee Organization for Refugees. So this message is very different from the others, and for that reason I allow myself to say that we are separated from our neighbors in the North countries. I've mentioned both Denmark and Norway. I want to name Sweden, too. There's a lot of stirs in Sweden. Both references are to Stefán Löfvens's declarations last year that appeared to show a change of direction on the part of Swedish economists, Swedish kreaks, the Group of Sisters. Likewise, if we think about his having a bit of a problem because he's in cooperation with the Greens who want to change their course, we may now have four Swedish political parties joined together, discussing the hardness of this series. It is well known that this too is of great interest in the Swedish class, but it is difficult for him to be on the team he is working with. Finally, I just want to say, " Let's make the most of it, help as many people as possible. '
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u84	A respectable president. Out there is the sun. People are walking in the East with their children and getting ice cream. What does that mean? It means that the Central Party is in the middle of an incomprehensible debate, incomprehensible communication of some sort other than the council's schedule. This isn't about being an immigrant policy, it's just not about that. We're adding services to the people who have already arrived. This does not indicate any number of people, that we are limiting our numbers, or that we are going to increase the number of foreigners, but we are just going to add information services to these people. Right away. A senator talks about cost, "What do you think about it? " A senator's advantage is not to provide them with information that comes here and speaks a foreign language, people who cannot fully read about the availability of the ministry? How much? I think that's what we're talking about. There must be a senator who has that figured out. What is the senator saying to 17% residents in the West, if we are just going to have purity in race or maternity? We're 7,000 on the West. There are 1,100 members of a foreign state broken down, approximately 17%. When I go to the Islanders' house, a girl who arrived in the country less than two years ago is a big-time breaker.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u85	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I reasoned at the beginning of my case that this case was so narrow and reserved and discussed improved information sharing and the changing order of the Importers Council, so that it would sit at the local representative of the Ministry's Office's desk. I even traced the subject of the bill. With the same reasoning as the night. A senator, after she had brought some kind of weather news and discussed related matters, should increase support from the government to the elderly and desperate. Why is this not done? Why is this not done on the part of the government as a matter of course? A senator supports, and her party is a participant? If there is no need to worry about money, the consequences of decisions, or the consequences of what is said or put into papers and documents, if money is of no importance to the mind. A senator whom they clearly do not do why he uses force. A senator does not see them in behalf of the people who need to be freed from all the unwarranted losses brought here year after year and who have been tolerated for the four years that this government has been supported by that government. A senator? And what does that mean, Madam President? A senator should come here and offer to talk about race? There was no mention of race in my speech. What does it mean to put words in the mouth of their fellow councilmen here? I'm totally dismissing a case like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u86	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for responding even if there were no answers. Hv. In his talk on Icelandic education, a senator spoke. The mass centre is not supposed to play that role, it's the responsibility of a minister of education. I'm just asking again, how much is it gonna cost not to give information? Hv. A senator spoke of the failings of older citizens. I'd like to remind you that within the ranks of immigrants there are poorer and older citizens. By providing better information, we readily meet that group. That's what matters. There is a very big width in this group, and there is a particularly delicate group that is desperate and older citizens who need better information. We are meeting that group. That's why it's so important that we figure it out. Once again, I ask, " How much does it cost not to meet him? ' Then I just want to remind you of a special additional support for the elderly. When we were discussing that subject and it got through - I was its traveling minister - we were talking about increased strength to the elderly immigrants. Maybe just a little. A senator's knowledge of this matter was settled last year.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u87	Madam President. It may be in several places that this answer must be considered only. I've mentioned Icelandic education because of the highest. The minister spoke to the 1st. The point I was there, I don't know if it's true. The senator was there, and that I read over this morning. He often mentioned Icelandic lessons, not just in speech, but in presentations with members of the Parliament, asking whether people would not want to be educated in the New World Translation. That's why I mentioned it, and I said it to the highest level. If a minister began to talk about related things like Icelandic education, he seemed to be familiar with his own bill. I have no doubt at all. A senator, an expert for committee party, believes that he has done a great job here in behalf of the elderly and the desperate, but they cannot see it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u88	Read the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u89	The damage they are experiencing has not been performed, and the anger and depression among the elderly are clearly felt, but they do not seem to touch the tail. A senator. Finally, I just want to say: " We need to think about these matters in a much wider context, but it sounds like a problem. A senator does.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u90	Madam President. I have to admit, it makes me sad to listen to the media party lawsuits. This case is designed to hide a wider role for the joint welcome of refugees by hiding the Agency to provide professional advice and advice in connection with the reception of refugees, which is nothing more than to strengthen the service of refugees. But the members of the Central Party, and what. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson in his speech, use this matter, which is about expanding the service, increasing information to a vulnerable group in our society, in an outback when it comes to the affairs of immigrants. I have to admit, Madam President, that makes me sad. It's disappointing. It's like outbacks. Hv. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir spoke, contrary to what he said. paritaprevir Ólafur Isenus Ísleifsson of Isun, about the Icelandic lesson that is not the contents of this matter. It's on custody of the highest. Secretary of education, not to be discussed here. In his speech, there was difficulty. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson, far from changing the affairs of immigrants, I want to know if he is opposed to giving to this vulnerable group, who seek our protection and escape, has experienced many better services not only to this group but to the community. [[The president calls.]] Is he really at that place in his politics that he doesn't like it?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u91	Madam President. Thank you. The contrastant senator is sorry to hear that she is sad, not happy, on this bright, beautiful day. I'm just gonna stop by a few places. I didn't teach Icelandic to talk. I made it the subject of the highest. Minister of Social Affairs, 1st. on the subject, teach Icelandic subjects the subject. It's not from me, I just had a word with the top. A minister would have done so, and it raised my question of how familiar he was with this case, since he began speaking about Icelandic education on the topic on the National Institutes and Councils. A multicultural site, as far as it will go, is established by the 2016 foreigners. It has to do with projects, information sharing and counseling, and I'm just going to shoot that in parentheses, I don't understand the vow of this ideal institution that I have nothing to consider, I have to admit that I'm not a light of the meaning of the concept or the word polygamy, I've read Icelandic culture after Sigurður Nordalur and have rereaded it, but I just don't know what the word of mass is. Of course you know why. A senator, if she listened to my speech, that I answered her final question. I made it clear with reference to our position in the world and our commitments to the world, including hard commitments, and of course we should do our part. But like others, we have limited money to do so, and that is what I mentioned in my talk, including. with a reference to policy development in Denmark, but I also referred to Sweden and Norway and, in fact, to Europe and to our participation in developing cooperation, and especially through the World Bank and its institutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u92	Madam President. I think we're gonna do what. A senator can agree on raising funds and policies when it comes to developing cooperation. I think it is clear that the pandemic allows us to rethink various aspects of developing cooperation to our contribution to health and to support developing countries. But, hey. I think he mentioned it not just twice, but more often, the Danishs with references to the local sister Party in Iceland, the United States, and was furious. In fact, it should be noted that dance men with peers distinguish themselves from all other European soci order groups on immigrants'languages, and they know why. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Isleusunsson very well. Regarding the number of people who are applying for asylum, that they are far more than just for filming in Denmark, it is because refugees no longer have the chance of applying for asylum immediately at their arrival in Denmark. This is one of the things the Danish officers once did when they took over the board of directors. I would also like to insist that the chairman of the United States, Logi Einar Einarsson, is officially and in private conversations and on closed meetings object to this policy of dancers of immigrants and other sociologists in Europe as well. The policy of dancers of immigrants is not humane in many ways. That knows why. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Isleusunsson very well. [[The president calls.]] It's not fair to ask the United States to go out with a bunch of dancers. The Danish officers have cut themselves very well, and they have actually followed the advanced members of the government, the Danish Party, when it comes to immigrants, and they have nothing to do with human or equalism.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u93	Madam President. It's hardly a matter of time for a man to swear off the Norwegian party.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u94	In this matter, yes. I have.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-03-88.u95	It's so loud and smart, you can hear it all the way to Copenhagen. Madam President. When I discuss these matters, I rely on source data, source sources, political agendas, government treaties, conferences of principal leaders, the branches of the seminars. I have discussed how the prime minister of dance, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen, deals with the subject. I have also quoted an economist who sits on the throne of the jury in Denmark, whose name is Mattias Tesfaye, and why. A senator may have met him on the Norwegian klasses. He rejects this course as inhumane, and he does it with strong reasoning. I've traced the paintings of the Danish officers, I don't have time to repeat it in this speech. She's good, she's responsible, and I'm good. To study the policy declaration of the dance party I have quoted and is up to 14 pages, a remarkable document. I got it. I got it. To read the talk of the Danish prime minister on October 6, I am impressed. A senator not to condemn such party brothers in Denmark and elsewhere in the north. I would also like to point out that her Swedish prime minister, Stefán Löfven, made a significant statement last year on this case.
