ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u1	By letter, dated March 25, 2021, the president has requested this, as shown in the 8th number of 1st. 13th par. Congress, by the Board of Directors and Control Committee, that it deals with a report entitled Fall WOW arraignment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u2	Borist has received a letter from a health minister asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a covering query. 982, on registration of communications in the Ministry, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u3	A respectable president. On Wednesday, the local government refused to grant a permit for the Southnesia Line 2. However, earlier, the rural communities of Réjanestown, Hafnarfjörður, and Grindavík had agreed to the Landsnet application for a work permit by the votes of all three local representatives. Once again, this important security and development situation for Southnes is at an early stage and it seems to be enough after 17 years of march. With this energy exchange in the Southnes, the smallest rural society in the South is stopped, increases uncertainty in the availability and transport capacity of electrical energy for jobs and homes in areas where the largest unemployment in the country afflicts society. In view of all of this and the natural disasters that are going on at Smokejanes, it is urgent that the matter be completed at this council in order to prevent further delays and to speed up the process. I recommended a bill for implementation for Southnes Line 2 and went to the Environment and Transport Committee after the 1st. Last March 3rd. With the bill, a organizational authority would be carried out by Southnes Line 2 projects from rural society to the legislatator. A respectable president. It is urgent that the organizational authority of an important infrastructure in this country is at a higher level of administration so that one rural society cannot prevent the normal structure of vital structures for a single part of the country or the whole country. The aim of the project is to increase the supply safety and transport capacity, but it is important for the main transport system and link between Southnes and the capital area. According to a report of the EU energy forecasting and the future development of rural society on the Southnes, the demand for electricity will increase more quickly there than in other parts of the country. Spells it even. ... withexploitation of increased electricity use of data in Southnes, increased activity at Keflavík Airport, and increasing population growth. Southland Line 2 is a national interest project, so there is no need to reenact the urgent need to act on it. A respectable president. An unacceptable delay has already occurred in the language that has been successful in the system for years.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u4	Mr. President. It's not quite this year, it's the Covid-19 virus and the volcanic eruptions. It's not often we experience such a time. This volcanic eruption's development is vague, not necessarily multiple. It may last weeks, months, even years. There is great interest in it within and outside the country, and it focuses on the tourism. It will be focused after weeks or months, and it should be as sustainable as possible to us. The pressures on the environment from up there have become severe and pressures on society, e.g. In Grindavik, there's become a great deal, on rescue teams, on police owners, on land owners, and on the people of the area. It focuses our eyes on the sustainable development and the limits of its endurance. I believe we need to take the initiative and specify, to change the variable at any given time, and to respect the tolerability of this area, the tolerance of the tourism service. The key to this is the cooperation of public defences through the local Ministry, the Scientists, the police, rescue teams, the ambulances, the travel services, both companies and their organisations, and the local governments. The purpose of such cooperation - now I am looking a little far ahead of time - is just that of paying and recognizable the opinion of important events in nature that will be the most sustainable way. I think there's a team of colleagues to be assembled, I can think of, for example. Only by the Southern Community, sooner or later, and starting to think about how we can cope with the services there needs to be provided as the most sustainable note. This is important if your soda is growing longer than a few days or weeks.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u5	A respectable president. Iceland out of power. We constantly talk about climate and the importance of coping with them and about solutions such as energy exchange, stopping fossil fuels and other solutions. We also talk about a great deal of growth in the industry, environmentally friendly sectors, such as tourism, some of which argue. There's a hotel and a whole country that needs electricity. We're talking about data and gardening and food production and other things that need electricity, but we've been stranded for years with energy sources. We're not going to be able to set up a frame plan. Power distribution - we heard an example here. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson's checkout for Southnes line 2 discontinuation, so energy cannot be distributed throughout the country. I believe it is important that the Environment and Transport Committee handle it immediately, Southnes Line 2, and hereby request that it be done. It is also the energy supply or the energy prices, how energy market guidelines work to provide both medium and large production with energy. That's where I'm talking about shelling and bigger greenhouses and data studios, which are willing to expand here, but the rules of the game stop it. I think we as a nation have to decide if we're going to have energy exchanges and we're going to have clean energy that can be distributed around the country, which is available and that we have, if we're going to achieve our plans.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u6	A respectable president. Today's core concerns the bill as directors and representatives of the Council have promoted the financial affairs of political parties. It specifically discusses a new article that discusses the prohibition against anonymous propaganda. First, I would like to say that I am a co-opposer of this case with the advance view that it will receive a thorough inspection by the administrative and surveillance committee in particular for these regulations, where it will inevitably involve freedom of expression, and not only that it is in accordance with the Constitution but also that it will fulfill the democratic values for which the expression is intended. However, I would like to say that I am a fundamental difference between forbidding someone to express himself and to make political or political organizations generally obliged to mean that the individual is responsible for the building blocks. But again, I reiterate the need to have this checked out, and I leave my right to change my mind on this matter later on, for this is a matter of concern and involvement in the Piranha. Thanks to those who responded. Yet, I would also like to mention what is even more important than this bill, which is the role of the citizen, the reader, the listener of being able to read, see, and hear the world in which we live, without immediately being brainwashed. The general public is not a child of the authorities. They're grown people, and we're supposed to make the requirement for other adults that they have their own thoughts and that they can make informed decisions even if they have some kind of stupid behavior on the Internet. Sad to say, a society in Iceland is not used to thinking about people like that. Rather, it is more or less thinking about the common people as a collection of children that authorities somehow have to raise. I just wanted to come up here in the light of this core coverage and the contribution of this bill, reminding them that the public is not a collection of children but an adult.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u7	President. It is now abbreviated workweek to take effect. Then there has been an arrangement here to respond to the shortness of the event and to a variety of factors, but a meeting on Wednesdays was also due to an extension of abbreviated work week. We've made a motion together at Pirata's party for a new arrangement of the assembly week, where there's room for a committee meeting from at the end of the week. (For fully formatted text, see publication) (For fully formatted text, see publication) (For fully formatted text, see publication) On Fridays at similar times, meetings of the classes and the prime committees are held. What changes mainly with this suggestion are suggested that meetings be held only until the end of the week. 5 a day, not anymore. Once a week, on Thursdays, the continuation of a congregation meeting is permitted until midnight, as it is now on Tuesday, but only with the agreement of everyone, not as it is now, i.e. Only if President decides. So finally, it's time for Friday till the end of the day. 5, the President is authorized to set up an additional meeting without everyone's consent or agreement to do so, in order to clear up certain weekly sessions. Now it is so that the planning of Congress is bad because there is not enough work to negotiate a talk period, that is so simple. Therefore, more and more discussions will be needed if the president would do his job and negotiate a talk period.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u8	Mr. President. Women's financial resources were founded in 1999, that is, the company of 1,200 women, has grown and thrived, and a good network is formed in all sectors. A fine example of a woman leading in FKA is Hildur Magnúsdóttur of Skavegurd, whose company produces food supplements, including from various Icelandic ingredients have recently been distributed in well - known commercial stores worldwide. FKA has provided a number of projects to strengthen women to take the lead in a workforce. These include the project to increase the number of women in governments from 2009 and the 2013 media project, which contributes to the increase in the production of women in the media. One of the biggest challenges that has been going on last year is the balance that is being performed in cooperation with the Ministry of Presidency and other parties. Her aim is to increase the number of women in the Commission and that the sex share will be 40/60. We know most of the 2013 laws on the sex ratios of enterprises working over 50 people, but unfortunately, there are still too many desserts among companies to enforce these laws. Today, inside the council, there is a Senate case that has been in progress and is moved here for the third time in three years. It authorizes penalties for such violations. All companies are to sit at the same table and enforce the law, and I trust that the case will be paid off at this council. Transporters are from all categories outside, as the case is now in session 3. and a final payment, and I trust that a body of Congress will take care of that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u9	Mr. President. The god of Gedingads now on the move has yet to show us what this amazing land is capable of and what nature is capable of. Naturally, the public's interest in the soda is very intense, so much so that they have toed up comments about how not being too careful about preventing the eruption. There is something that we need to consider that, especially now that the fourth wave could be going on in this epidemic. There are ways to deal with this. For example, the access to the area could be adjusted, but then we need support from the representatives in the area who are doing volunteer work, i.e. The rescue teams. The rescue forces have also shown us in these disasters that they are an important part of our society, how important it is in times of distress and times when unexpected events occur. Then there are hundreds if not thousands of people ready to go on the scene to ensure the safety of the other volunteer workers. There is great knowledge in the rescue forces, along with search, and so forth. So I even have. Provided in the council a case of an international rescue school that I intend to reexamine. We need these agents, and I think the rescue teams would be the best to run such a project. The nature of Iceland is amazing. It is important that we have the opportunity to enjoy it, but we also need to respect the treatments of disease, and we are to help the wonderful ones in the rescue groups to help us enjoy it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u10	A respectable president. Arctic ice has never been measured, and in just a few years the ice has decreased over an area of France, Spain, Germany, Poland, and Italy combined. Today, as never before, the green earth is melting, and snow is no longer protruding, even though global warming is stopping today. Nowhere on earth is there any change as great as in the northern regions, since we are truly a northern kingdom, and we live here among the four million people living in the north. So it is only natural for us to stress northern affairs in our foreign policy. That was an important step at the highest. The minister of state to appoint a Parapolitan Parliamentary Commission on a review of Arctic policy and made good use of this now in the prehuman history of Iceland in the Northern Council, but ten years have passed since the General Assembly adopted the current Arctic policy. I had the privilege of leading them to work, but I joined the committee. Councilmen of Njlíl Friðbertsson, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, Brjánsson, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Savarsdótttir, Bjölnsson of Gunns, Þorgerður Katrín Leví's Gunnarsdóttir, and Sæland Gólgóland. With the Committee, Aðalheiður Inga Þorsteinsdóttir, head of the Northern Affairs Department of State, worked with the Commission. I want to thank all of them for their good cooperation. The role of the Committee was to promote a revised policy in the affairs of the north from a broad angle, such as ecology, economic, political, and security. In the last Friday, we gave up 19 motions that are on the environment and sustainability, security, search and rescue, economic instruments and infrastructure, science, innovation, job structure, and so on. They all aim to protect Iceland's interests and ensure the welfare of north-landers. A respectable president. I expect we'll soon be accepted into the council hearing proposal from the highest level. Secretary of state, based on that proposal. [[The president calls.]] I hope, a respectable president, that we will prosper in accepting our new heading for the North Sea at this council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u11	Mr. President. I'm going to discuss the problem of shopping in a rural area. The occasion is a recent closing of the day - to - day store in a local church dresser, where residents of the GDR year will now have to go a long distance to buy their household's routine products. The difficult conditions of shopping in small areas are not new. When choosing a place to live, it is of great importance that we choose to serve where we live. In fact, there is often a reason where people decide to settle, although jobs normally have the most part. Many of the services the people in the capital area find themselves, such as health care, elementary and nursery schools, swimming pools, drug trade, sports facilities, bank shops, and day - to - day stores, are in the mind of many of the facilities that are to be near home. When one of the day's products shops in a large rural society closes down, it'll be hard on the flats. The running of the daily stores in small regions is always more difficult than to create here in the capital area. Mr. President. The food chains run shopping in many parts of the country, sometimes taking full control of the shopping business in large areas. This can disrupt competition and lead to higher prices, fewer services, and less products. This is what the United Nations has to do with watching and guarding the rights of its citizens and competitors so that healthy competition can continue. In a small and rural country, this can be difficult. First and most important, it is to foster the potential for services within its surroundings and competitiveness and to be able to provide services. Care must be taken, taking into account all the views; the role of the service, the operators, and most of the population itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u12	Mr. President. There is no question that those with horns in the European Union and the possible EU Member States on this and the EEA Convention are unusually happy in these days. They will hardly say without mentioning Iceland's sovereignty, using Iceland's sovereignty, and for some time proving that it is best to be alone in the world, to push off the flag in full armor, with a lance of the sovereign power, and to make a beach blow in gift - giving lands of vaccine content, which the evil European Union has inspired us to promise not to touch. It's all of it with the most amazing things. The second word speaks of the failure of the European Union and that within it individual countries will not be able to move or help; the European Union is shut down a customs union that is just thinking about its own interests, but let itself be relieved of what is going on in the world. That's a good fact in the Covid epidemic. In the other word, it is criticized for not caring for its own interests. Therefore, some Member States are forced to take their national rights and go their own way. Now, you guys wait a minute, don't you? So the EU has a sovereignty right after all? The EU can be criticized for a number of things. However, when it comes to vaccines, it will not be critical to take first care of your own interests. As a result, we benefit the Icelanders. [[The president calls.]] The EU has exported 77 million doses of vaccine, the United States not one dose, Britain not one dose.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u13	Mr. President. Of course, it is not only in Iceland that vaccines and vaccinations are a matter of concern. This is a serious matter, requiring vision and organization, negotiation techniques, and endurance. It's a lot under, very much, but it's also good to be able to see it with a smile in the situation, especially when the local storms in a water bottle made up for the local misunderstanding that the European Union was going to leave us behind. The experience was a bit like when you listen to people fight with the radio; it's one person's fight, there's no disagreement on the subject. The European Union reports that the move of vaccines to Iceland was immediately carried back and there is no danger, but after the misunderstanding was corrected, the Icelandic government brought a disaster and spoke of the fact that we were not to be treated by any pig, especially the ugly European Union. Perhaps this reaction came as a result of confirmation from the European Commission's Commission that it had never stood to prevent vaccine shipments to Iceland. The new directive, which caused this storm in the Icelandic government's glass of water, will hopefully yield the results and better supply of vaccines in the European Union because we will benefit from it in Iceland to the European Union. This storm is a bit like a social security exercise, no danger, but a disaster staged. The government so rehearsed a talk about dangers that never existed, and somehow the listener ignores the feeling that it was designed for some backseat drivers who are being helped rather than a nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u14	V.E.G. President. Despite all of this, I'm not going to talk to you about the pandemic of Covid-19 and not to have a vaccine or, like, a vagina. Councilmen who were before me said, about the evil European Union, but rather, I'm going to discuss what is in balance and not to be disturbed by this, which is the fish in the sea that swims and feels little about all of this. Iceland and I have the privilege of taking a piece of fish plants following our advice of the most skilled scientists. And then I really came to what I was going to talk about in this talk, i.e. funds placed in marine research and research on fish stocks. It is a joy to see that a new ocean vessel is being built, but it also requires funding for research. It is now a small furrow, as it is called, the newly completed one, but it still gave 30 billion to the nation. As a result, a good - looking study was conducted, both by the public and by the deportations involved. They need more funding in research, in my opinion and in many others. There's a lot of swing in the cysteium analysis, no hatching is forbidden, no one believes in the master-sized grey patch, as it is done, and so on. The amount of money is what matters, and it would bring in billions of dollars to increase the entrance if handled more effectively.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u15	Mr. President. Last night, high school elections were announced at the University of Iceland, and I'd like to use this opportunity to wish the Biscu, Socialist Associations, congratulations on a wonderful victory. The student council is an important interest force in students, and it has been very prominent in recent years, both in connection with the climate struggle and also in the interest struggles associated with the Korean epidemic. In many ways, governments have failed students in this crisis. Although students have shown a strong grip and a demand for better support measures, they have been left behind. Still, young people are the most experienced group of people. In addition, students in the United States are working more through studies than are known in other Western countries. This is because of the simple reason why the basic value of student loans in Iceland is far below a typical government consumer control, and that amount has to rise as soon as possible. After all, students are expected to be able to support themselves while they are studying and to focus fully on this. This is of great importance now when we are faced with tremendous social change, a real technological revolution. Education will be the most important investment in the government and all of us into that future. We need to believe that this is a society where young people have the same opportunity and encouragement to seek the right education. That is a key to achieving a high standard of living for all of us. We need to support students'demands on higher basic growth and their right to unemployment. They need political courage and will to attack it, and the United States has both the courage and the will.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u16	A respectable president. Covid-19 and the government's actions to help control the effects of the virus have obviously been focused on the last year and especially on the last days. Surgeons across the border and within the country make regular changes that may be difficult to pay attention to. Because of the seriousness of the problem and the regular changes taking place during a disease prevention program, it is important that public information not be misleading, leading to easily misunderstandings among the population. Officials, members of Congress, and ministers are all responsible for providing accurate information, so it is important that those in charge do not exceed information on the rules and updates of the procedure. We're all in this together, and we all deserve to know what's going on. Then I mean vaccinations, limitations due to disease prevention and cross-border disease measures. In discussions about these things, the atmosphere is electricityed, and misinformation about them are adrift, creating disagreements amongst humans. It is important that we all bear in mind that the clear and correct information given to the public is in priority, not campaigns, reelections, or popularity among certain groups. We'll finish the game together, but there's a lot to it with conflicting information to the people. There is no understanding as bad as a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u17	A respectable president. Ferrets cry because they miss their Bar Mitzvah. Children who are now missing their birthday for the second time also cry. The children cry as a result of the government's URL in Covid-19 antiviral protection. Britain's species were invited in, and no warning bells rang, and no red light arose when foreign tourists arrived for three or four days, and they were supposed to have been under siege for five days. Workers arrived in the country where they break contours and go straight to work. No one watching. The gathering service that was moving into action and saw until a brighter time had to lock up, and then all those who are now seeing an enormous loss of income due to a failure on the border that could well have been prevented. Once again, those in need of exercise, swimming, and hot pots must remain for rehabilitation to lose them the necessary service. That is because the government did not use the laws and regulations it has to do everything within its power to stop the highly infectious British virus species from being loose in our society. Today, people with underlying diseases are now trapped, even without money or food, and cannot afford to order food or other needs online or to be sent home. At the same time, the government is paying for foreign tourists in a district of infection, which is ridiculous, when they say they don't have money to help the few, like the highest level. Secretary of finance says there's a terrible situation. Where to find funding to help the worst-cased person in a miserable situation at his command and the government, he asks, but at the same time he does not need any capital for everything else. People first, then all the rest, say the party, but unfortunately it's with this government: "All the rest first and gradually, for the people, and the worst of all, they didn't get anything."
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u18	A respectable president. For the past two months, the Covid-19 epidemic has been at minimum in Iceland at its core. Very few cases or none have been identified each day and most were infected by diagnosis. This situation has persisted despite the relaxation of the meeting limit within the country. However, within the past few days and weeks, the number of identified infections on the border has increased, and ten people have been identified as active infections. During the past three weeks, all in the capital area have developed group infections, caused by the British variant of the Korean virus. A serial analysis has linked two groups of cross-infections in which there appears to be a source from a person diagnosed on a border. The origin of a third group infection has not been able to trace it. In the last few days, traceage around the third group of infections has shown that in the past week, about 200 to 300 people have been exposed to the virus, and at the beginning of the week, 11 students in the sixth grade of Saturday's school were identified as infected. These students have produced a number of individuals for transmission during the past few days. On March 23, 14 infections were detected within the country, on March 24, there were eight infections within the country, and on March 25, six infections within the country. Although a large proportion of these infections are defined as euthanasia, most of these individuals were new to the field of infection at diagnosis and were likely infected before they were infected. Thus, significant social expansion may now have been seen on the British side of the crown virus that needs to be dealt with quickly. Studies abroad have shown that the British species is much more contagious than most others. In fact, the same measures taken by disease prevention are being taken at the beginning of the third wave, which was well - equipped for last autumn. The difference is basically that hair salons, beauty salons, and comparable individual activity remain allowed. There will continue to be 9 meters and the rules on mask duty unchanged. The overall mass limit is ten people, reaching all those who were born in 2014 or earlier. I'm not going to step up to the operations in any other way, but considering these changes keeping their values for three weeks in order to get through this spread. Another decision was made that basic and high schools, music schools, and colleges would be closed from March 25 until a traditional Easter break takes place, which in most cases there are only two days. The rules on schooling procedures are adopted after the implementation of relevant holiday licenses. For national policy measures, since April 1, children will be born in 2005 and later taken to one cross-border sample. If a child has a responsibility to be diseased during his arrival in the country, the child must also be infected. Visitors who come from an area or who have stayed in an area where there is a 14-day incidence of infections per 100,000 population over 500, or enough data on the region, will then be obliged to dwell in a contaminating facility. These changes are based on the proposals of a disinfectant based on an increase in the number of infections on the border. Vaccination status only. Yesterday, nearly 60,000 doses of vaccine had been given, of which over 20,000 were fully vaccinated. Vaccination is restarted with AstraZeneca vaccine in older age groups and is expected to be the week after Passover all 70 years of age and older. Then it is the completion of the vaccineing process by the staff of the National Hospital and the Akureyri Hospital, who are in close contact with patients. Thereafter, individuals 69 years of age and younger with underlying conditions are offered vaccinations. At the same time, healthcare professionals will continue to receive vaccinations. Finally, I'd like to present it here at the end, because it has been discussed, and to state that the European Commission has made sure that the EU decision to ban the export of the Covid-19 vaccines from the Union to non-EU countries will not interfere with the delivery of vaccines to Iceland. Iceland is a member of the European Union partnership for the purchase of vaccines and sit at the same level as the European Union's countries for the vaccine adopted by the European Commission and delivered by the European Commission. Vaccines are distributed evenly between countries involved in the contracts based on population population and Iceland, these contracts. The Icelandic government, as mentioned, has just made comments to this Regulation and has made comments to the European Union and various countries within it. A respectable president. I expect the discussion to be good, as is customary under this part of the program, and I'll expect to answer the questions raised.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u19	Mr. President. The current action would not be necessary if the people were to be vaccinated or more successful in the field, the results we should have achieved. On visi.is yesterday appeared a remarkable news item under the headline: the United States could benefit from the exports of the EU◯. This headline was based on the Ministry's assessment. Ministers who somehow evaluate the situation that if the EU prohibits exporting to countries other than releases Iceland from the list that is still available in Iceland, we may be able to get a little of the vaccine that will be supplied. This is the Ministry we're told to now take care of raising a vaccine by any means necessary. But what is the Ministry really doing? Is this a natural description of its attitude, a fair description shown in this report? And is a government agency that would like to excuse the European Union's detoxification most likely in order to obtain a vaccine on the outside of contracts with the EU?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u20	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator for pointing out the obvious connection between the rapid vaccinations at the opening of society, we are all very aware of that. No, I don't think that the news was especially reasonable, since that was the case. A senator specifically asks that question. However, as with other potential purchases of vaccines, it is good to report, as noted earlier in the Generalist Institute, that the vaccine can be obtained from Sputnik to Iceland by the Ministry of Health. In fact, discussions with the manufacturer are in the early stages, and there is little further to say about the situation at this stage. I'll make sure of what. A senator says that we will do all we can to speed up vaccinations and that, in fact, very good news comes from Janssen today, and the vaccination calendar will likely be updated later today, taking into account this. The Janssen vaccine is highly positive in this vaccination calendar because it only takes one injection. So there will be good news today.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u21	Mr. President. The information issue continues in this series of issues. Only yesterday it was reported that a much lower dose of Janssen was expected, just a fraction of what was expected. And then there's some other news today. But the important thing is that Iceland has a place to secure the vaccine and to make use of its special resources. I've heard a minister say he's interested in the Sputnik vaccine before, but what's really going on in that? V.E.G. According to a minister, discussions are in the initial stages, but previous statements, including No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Prime Minister, there is no other indication that people are just waiting to hear from the European Union about when Sputnik might enter the European package. Are you trying to negotiate the purchase of this Sputnik material or other material for the entire nation outside the European Union?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u22	A respectable president. I share it completely with what. A senator must be quite long gone because he is counting the numbers we receive. They are often changing from day to day and from week to week, and I would have proved true that these producers were more reliable than ever, and as far as the European Union's cooperation with other European countries is more stable than ever before, I agree with that. I'm telling you, though, that we have a confirmed conclusion now from Jansen, and I agree with it. A senator, how could he be changing numbers from day to day? However, I have emphasized the importance of informing about all the numbers I have under my control. Of course, there is an important lesson for all of us, and hopefully also why. A senator, that we can be sure of a vaccine once they are in the house. However, we just received confirmed information about Janssen that 4,800 doses were delivered in April, 2,400 today on April 16, and April 26, as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u23	A respectable president. It was good to receive this report about Janssen at the end of the second answer. Secretary of health. Clearly, news changes from day to day. However, there may be no change in dissatisfaction or frustration of the human population with the small incidence of this Johnson & Johnson vaccine, although this has been transferred from 3,500 dosing since yesterday to 4,800 doses today. But okay. However, I would like to look at the opportunities now available in the European Union. The European Union has not apologized for putting Iceland in a list of countries that are not allowed to import vaccines to -- I think Iceland is still the list and it insists on leaving that country of that list - and in view of that, I think it's worth looking at and I'd like to ask the highest degree. Minister if it is systematically, if I may put it this way, to consult the countries that have already been present, e.g. declared that they are not going to use the vaccines they already have and are currently taking. For example, I take Denmark, who has reported that the plan is to postpone the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine for three weeks. I don't think it's acceptable that the state stays on a vaccine in this way for weeks. I'm calling Iceland to want to have it, even if it's only lent this vaccine this time and later restore it when Iceland gets its own doses. This is true of other countries. In Italy there are reports of an attack on a warehouse that left up to a quarter of a million doses of vaccine and had been left for some time. What is the health - care minister doing in these matters? Also, I would like to ask if the Department of Health has offered the purchase of vaccines from non-EU producers, since there is a great increase in these manufacturers. Has Iceland been invited to purchase vaccines from countries such as Russia and China and from other manufacturers?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u24	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the questions. First, the senator asks whether we have received a purchase outside the European community. Of course, many people have approached the Icelandic government, and it is our duty to pursue every thread that comes to us and find out what is behind it. However, for Sputnik it is this way that we could negotiate ourselves or in cooperation with the North countries, but safety and quality are ensured by the European Medicines Agency. We have not yet brought up the matter of compromising what we do for an Icelandic community. In turn, as with Dani and AstraZeneca, I feel that this is not to be considered. I believe, of course, that each country has an example of how they manage their vaccinations. We have taken the policy here to use AstraZeneca, to implement it now for 70 years and over and then to continue with less than 70 years of age, as the European Union has indicated it is safe to use for 65 years of age and older, and we will do so. We have enough AstraZeneca in a house to keep our plans for this group, and we can assume that a vaccine was given one week after the Passover.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u25	A respectable president. I'll be very disappointed in an answer from the highest degree. Healthcare Ministers thus have access to our potential to use the unused vaccine in other countries. Of course, this does not report any self - determination rights or political powers of other countries. Of course, we do not interfere with their choice of vaccines when it comes to vaccines. But wanting them to give up this vaccine, as I say, even if only on loan for some time, I feel that the spontaneous response of other countries to news reports of unremarkable vaccines, e.g. Spain, hundreds of thousands of doses, as well as various European countries. I think these countries would be just fine if Iceland came and now showed how to run these routine vaccinations in Iceland. I'm going to go to the top. Ministers in revising their views on these possibilities. Also, if that is the case, it would be helpful to get further answers to the possible opportunities for us through the communications that have occurred from non - European manufacturers, whether they are well kept in touch. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u26	A respectable president. Yes, I can assure you what. The senator that all threads are kept open because it is important. Because of it. A candidate in particular focuses on the quality of AstraZeneca, which is often delayed, so that in view of the situation and reassessment of that vaccine, AstraZeneca is not used for all age groups. It's just a scientific conclusion. So even if we borrowed it, that would not make any difference to our plans. After Easter, 70 years of age and older will run out, and then we can continue vaccination until 65 years of age with this material. But at last, I want to assure you. A senator says we'll talk to everyone, we'll keep every thread open, but at the same time we'll ask about the evidence.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u27	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Healthcare Minister for the report and considers it very important that the Council be close by the Minister and well informed. For example, Angela Merkel, German chancellor the council directly after a presentation meeting when the rules were changed to talk to the council immediately before interviewing the media so that the lawgiver would be well informed, and there would be no lack of information and everyone could walk in rhythm. I think it's very important. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister in the first question: Does it believe that the government monitoring of tourists who have come here and are being diseased, people living here and tourists, has been sufficient? How has this been done? Has any alarm been performed e.g. At Leifs Station about how people travel from there or when they usually watch where people are staying or when they come home?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u28	A respectable president. One is the rule we've been talking about and looking at and tightening our defenses on the border to Covid-19, and the other is the procedure, the success of the work. Like what? Of course, they have been referred to by a member of the Parliament and have been manipulated by tourists and others who travel across borders, and this is probably what has already spread. The procedure on the border for monitoring and follow-up is not on the table of the Ministry of Health, but on the Department of Justice. However, the pathologist has repeatedly stated that monitoring can be done more effectively, sharpening the rules used, and improving monitoring from day to day.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u29	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. In Iceland there are now 95 infections, nothing on the border. In New Zealand, they are 73 on the border, nothing within the country. If New Zealand were Iceland, it'd probably be 1,300 for population but 73. New Zealanders decided to ban unnecessary travel and street damage. Has been consulted by the government or by the Supreme Court. Health Minister himself, although it has not been through the government, to simply forbid travel to Iceland unless it is absolutely necessary to travel, and the duty of those who come here to a diseasehouse? Does she believe that such an obligation is clear to the law? What effect, e.g. what the British are doing, forbidding travel and finest persons who leave the country without need? [[The president calls.]] Is it possible for Iceland and Iceland's government to record something like that to protect its citizens?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u30	A respectable president. Hv. A senator's natural involvement in work was as for the update and review of alcohol - control laws, and we have put great emphasis on doing as mildly as possible and using a moderate in all our decisions. We stress to encourage others to be responsible. There's been a lot of information on the border. Hv. A senator here refers to Britain as a ban on travel. It is a legal authority to ban travel. I wouldn't suggest it to ban travel. I have not done so so far, however, I have agreed with the suggestions made by a psychiatrist that there should be an infestation in a disinfectant, from a particularly serious point of view on the outbreak of the epidemic.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u31	Mr. President. Indeed, the epidemic was successful here in Iceland, i.e. Compared to many other countries. Nevertheless, this is a real challenge in which the nation's harmony, response to the affected person, and others, as well as the strength of control of any reaction, has been extremely important. That's a reason to thank the highest. Ministers, commendations, and subsidiaries under the secretary's office for their involvement in this matter. Today, more than a year from the start of the epidemic, and the long - term effects of the pandemic are becoming evident. It turns out that somewhere around -- that varies from numbers, but it may be up to a level of 60 to 470 percent of those who have had the illness still have sequelae, even six months or more after the epidemic has ended. Then we may wonder what we will do next and whether the Ministry will consider this. Minister. Regarding the vaccinations and the effects of them, I'd like to bring in the Minister by what talks are made in the Ministry for the continuation of vaccinations, to form when the nation is fully vaccinated, and quite after the outbreak. Is the Ministry discussing in what way and whether we will continue to improve? Remember, for example. Do You Need to Revaccinated? Will we have to use so - called forgive, Mr. President, to promote continued social resistance?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u32	A respectable president. Whatever it is. Of course, a candidate mentioned here is a part of this possible stage - all talking about stage shots today - that could be drawn up when we have reached our goals for vaccination in this cycle. Unfortunately, we do not have complete perspective on the role of mutants, etc., on the effectiveness of individual vaccines against such variants, on the subsequently evolution and continuing development of vaccines, and on the ability to cooperate with the manufacture and development of vaccines to form in the North countries. All such things have been in the discussion. It is possible to form a partnership that is of some sort other than right now. I think everyone has their eyes on this. I specifically mentioned it yesterday during a financial discussion, and I think it's time to flaunt it in a discussion about it, as well as in this discussion about Covid-19, that I think it's more likely than as much of a small amount of money we have to plan on buying vaccines in the year 2022. I think it's more likely than a lot less. Once again, though, we do not know which drug would be the best type, which manufacturer would pass alone's opinion, what variations we would be able to fit at that point, and where the situation will be. We have the power to plan, but in the end, it's the virus that controls all of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u33	Mr. President. I know it's the highest. A minister honors me to look ahead and to believe that this is an assignment we will have to take on, i.e. that we will have to look into the future in the way that we need to continue the vaccine against this visitor, or at least monitors whether the antibody response is maintained and whether there is an adequate response, apart from the highest. A minister mentioned what a variation will be involved. The minister pointed out that, of course, we would need to examine with our eyes any resources we have to spend as a community to ensure continued immunity and in the way that we do so. Therefore, I would like to have a secretary tell me whether she is aware that in this country the movement of the immune response is being monitored by the individuals who have been infected and, on the other hand, those who have been vaccinated and at the highest level. A minister would have wanted to promote such tests within the country. This is a very important knowledge that needs to be available in the community, and it can help us to determine in what way we need to put money ahead of time because whatever we feel about the present epidemic is very likely to happen again and then we need to be ready.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u34	A respectable president. Of course, all possible aspects of this subject are under investigation in all parts of the world. I think the day of work would be quite good at reading and observing them because of their rapid and progressive appearance. I am not an expert in this field myself, but I am very proud that Iceland has always sought to make decisions based on the best potential knowledge and latest information. We have some very powerful scientists here, both from a DC doctor and from the National Hospital, as well as from the Icelandic genetics, who are very attentive. For example, there is a sequencing analysis of every person infected by Covid-19 something that we can't see anywhere else. Thus, the gathering of knowledge is enormous. I'd like to mention in this conversation new questions, which, of course, arise and are appropriate to touch and mention, i.e. the fact that we are closing basic schools that are reflected in new government actions. This is because we see more spreading among children. We both see that they are more infected and more infected. Then there may be new questions about herd resistance, vaccinations, and the like. There is no one who is now vaccinating children. Some of them are being investigated, but we're not there and we haven't been aiming our vision and calculations, etc. if you are using such a approach. But that is a question we must ask. We must be prepared to make decisions based on new knowledge, as we have so far, if that were to happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u35	President. I'd like to ask the highest. Healthcare Minister on the priority schedule for vaccinations. In view of the fact that the current rate of the Korean virus epidemic is largely due to the basic school level in the seas, is it not time to set priorities for our teachers in the field of vaccinations and especially preschool teachers? The evaluation of the government is, of course, an essential school teacher and should include prospective personnel. The director of the Theocratic Schools School Teachers concluded on the limitations of school work for Covid-19 this week, with permission of presidents: ▪ The director of a school degree describes his concerns as opening up until the Passover. This virus has shown that it is unpredictable about its destination and is taking unnecessary risks by staying in play schools open this brief period until Easter break. Don't you think it's necessary to follow words? Doesn't the government know how important preschool teachers are in society? Why has not the practice of vaccinating preschool teachers and elementary school teachers, and why have they not been prioritised as career professionals today?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u36	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. Now, to make changes in the Regulation, there has to be a proposal from a DC surgeon for action. In his memo that there is no increased spread among children under six years of age, a health - care professional points out that I can't make a suggestion for the limitations of the school profession on the basis of the recommendations made by a psychiatrist. The only reasoning we can use is barbaric wounds. On the other hand, I completely agree with preschool teachers that the school has been very strict through Covid-19 and not only under strict and extremely important school points but also as a strict link in which society can continue. I think it's right that preschool teachers would say that much more often we were allowed to say how important this service and this school phase is to a community that wants to live up to its name. I agree that there's a lot to be done with school teachers, and I want to do that because they're doing a very important and important job. I have personally taken four kids through nurserys and five grandchildren, and all of them have been very useful in providing support and assistance to raising children, as well as to laying the foundation for their education and future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u37	President. Thanks for that. I just hope that there'll be a review of setting up preschool teachers and elementary school students for vaccinations. But I just wanted to ask you how things are working on the border in relation to the actions we now have to endure in the Icelandic community. Now for the fourth time, we are seeing that everything is being shut down once again, and this is making a big difference in the spiritual health of those in Iceland. We can't go swimming, we don't get much to meet families, and we live in an isolated country at first, and we're being isolated more and more. That is why I felt that there was a slight blow to the fact that there were no drastic measures on the border. I don't approve of shutting them down entirely, but I would have liked to see some kind of action that is consistent with the actions we have to live with here in the next three weeks. We know that the tourism industry is important, and there are a lot of jobs that have disappeared in the past year. But it must be a political decision to prioritize profits in the tourism industry beyond the mental and physical health of those living in Iceland. During my discussion, I've seen a lot of tiredness, and people are frustrated about it. So I might just want to get clear from the top. Health Minister: Is the tourism industry setting priorities ahead of those living in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u38	A respectable president. First, it is natural people who are involved in tourism. There are also people, people who live in Iceland who come to work or who may just not be working right now, so they can't be separated. It's part of the community. I don't agree with what. A senator when she says that measures have been more and more isolated from us. The last two months until yesterday, in Europe, there was no more open society than Iceland. We were actually in a unique position. We could go to a concert, we could go to the theater, go out to dinner, see our friends and live and enjoy a 50-man peak. There is something that countries around us, some of them, have never been able to enjoy since March of last year. With the position you've got, I'll totally agree with it. One senator says, that there is fatigue in society and long ago, fatigue in society, and it is a real challenge for us who are standing here, keeping it all together because it's really difficult, but we've been tightening our borders and now the last action towards taking a test from children, starting at the center of the next week, and also obliging people to be infected in a fishing house that comes from red zones. This is in an attempt to further grasp the potential transmission across borders. In Iceland, all our decisions and measures have set priorities for our lives and health. It's always been number one. Other decisions focus on how to deal with the virus itself and the disease as such and on the social and economic effects that have resulted from contaminating. So my spiritual and physical health is always at the top, and I have emphasized the importance of caring for and responding to these influences.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u39	A respectable president. We are once again running for cover. The Icelandic people are accustomed to experiencing unpredictable weather. This epidemic is acting in a similar fashion. Now there is nothing more than to secure the situation, to take cover, and to weather when we are entering the fourth wave. The government responded rapidly and accurately to this situation by taking action. You can also thank the nation for how well they responded and quickly responded to the recommendations made by experts. We're all P.R.s, and we're going to be successful with solidarity. Megas said it's a long time for the man to try. This line pops up when you cross the last few years. Life has been an elevator - house, but the nation has shown great perseverance and solidarity in fighting the pandemic during the past few years. All of us have had to make some sacrifices and adjust to each situation. The situation is fragile, and today we can't afford much. We must not forget that at the end of the tunnel, the vaccination of the people is still shining. Plans estimate that the nation's major majority will be vaccinated in the middle of summer. A traveling committee has carried out its duties and has followed closely the course of matters. We have also been contacted by a health - care professional along with the rest of the trident. The CDC came to a meeting last Tuesday, so we can only say that we have been informed about the course of events here at the General Assembly. But it is natural for us to want answers, and we want to be able to look for them, even though plans are difficult to plan. It is also important to stay awake and respond quickly. In this situation, it is important that information is stable and correct. Then I'd like to ask the highest. Whether the limitations that were determined now will be reviewed regularly over the three weeks or if the situation will be reviewed after three weeks.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u40	A respectable president. I agree with the viewpoints expressed by that day. A senator's importance is to exchange opinions on decisions he or she is making, as well as to inform as possible. We've conducted information meetings for public defences throughout the epidemic. It is quite special for Iceland to do so, although these information meetings are most closely followed when the most difficult decisions are going on and when the epidemic is rising, it is very important that this information is being made on a regular basis. Hv. A senator specifically asks if the rules are regularly revised or if they will only be done after three weeks. This is done very regularly, and even one decision was made yesterday for evacuation. It was about the fact that we had assumed that there could be a maximum of 50 people at the pharmacy and grocery store, regardless of the size of the space. However, as a closer examination and also as to how well things have been going in the grocery store and the pharmacy doing well in this regard, they were raised to 100 with a change in regulations yesterday and a brief announcement. So we keep track of the effects all day long and make sure that we do not have more than we need, but we still grab the hand brake with the strength needed to get the control of the epidemic rapidly and effectively.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u41	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I also want to use this opportunity to thank the highest. Minister for how she's been doing on this watch because it's been a year of this epidemic completely unpredictable. He's in charge, as we see today, and you often feel he's coming up behind you. In the waves that have passed, we have been protecting the old people and other things. Now, though, there are children who may be most vulnerable. That's why I want to thank you again. Minister for how she has stood up for this matter. Information is useful and information is needed, and governments respond, whether in the situation or in the news. So I felt very special when I saw it. Councilmen living here on the field of the job today said it was some play that had been triggered on the invitations that came from the European Union. But this information was available on the European Union website. I don't know why they were made here. What we now fear about this epidemic is that it is a bit scary to our children. I finally want to ask the highest. Minister: How does a study of vaccine efficacy affect children and young people? Will we watch a change in priorities for vaccination because of the way the virus has been changing rhythms? And are children being vaccinated in the world over?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u42	A respectable president. I want to thank you first. A senator for the encouragement and support. I think we need to remember to maintain the general social status that people have had to change their daily lives. It is virtually every person who has had to take some form of change as a result of the epidemic, and there is a great deal of ongoing stress in one community. But this does not make it important to hold on to endurance and endurance as well as to remember to celebrate the small victories, for it must be done in times of adversity. Hv. A senator specifically asks what we can say about the effect on children. The numbers we have now tell us that children are more smart, they get the disease, they get sick, they get more infected. It is a new variation in itself, for it is a natural epidemic for the first one, and it is also a new British species for doing and being followed and studied as hard. Because of what? A senator specifically asked if children were being vaccinated somewhere else, at least not. Based on yesterday's data, vaccination of children is under investigation at least Two places, if I know correctly. Hv. A senator specifically asks about the priorities. It's actually signed by me. It is a disease prevention doctor who performs vaccinations and priorities according to it, but it is permitted to address priorities with special support for me at a time, so we have not seen reason to change the Regulation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u43	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you very much. Healthcare Minister for the report today. On March 16, the year had passed since meeting restrictions were valid, and a few days later, we face the most severe action from the beginning because of the setback to the battle. I would like that relationship to ask the highest. A health minister to a decision made that reminds me of the first month of January 15, January, about the rules on the border, called the color encoding system. I understand that on the one hand, on May 1, vaccination was chosen because of the fact that the most vulnerable groups were to be completed, and then the rule's content is that passengers from countries that are evaluated for green or orange and can present a negative test will go to one screening on the border rather than be infected. So, in this first event, my question is simply, What is the situation in view of the situation that is now in the country when the people of the land are faced with the most severe limitations from the beginning? What rule will apply to the 1st May?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u44	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. One day you would have said that it was not a great deal to assume that a minister could answer the question of May 1 when it is late March, and April 1 is next week. The question, however, is of great importance because it results from a decision made by the government in January and offered a coded color code at May 1. In a sense, the color encoding system is always part of our assessment, i.e. We will record April 1 that they should be at a place of infection in the contagion that comes from the most elderly lands. It's part of the color encoding system. In an updated system last night, Iceland was still one green country and it's updated once a week, if I remember correctly, on Thursdays. I would say, because we were making these changes that took effect yesterday within the country, keeping their value for three weeks, in view of what the epidemic situation is still in Europe, that if we were watching today, the value of the color code would be very small. Based on the current situation, we would always expect very decisive measures to be taken against those who come from red areas, which are now abundant by Europe as is the situation today. So I think that from now on, we can look to this. However, as health - care minister, I still remind myself of the fact that measures based on disease control laws are always based on proposals from a disease - control doctor who aims for the epidemic's situation at any given time but not far into the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u45	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A health minister for the answers. Of course, I realize that the Minister of Health cannot help but tell us what the situation will be, but much would be good. I think we're all completely aware of it at this point that it's difficult to have. But I am interested in knowing if it is government policy that on May 1 the border rule will remain unchanged so that green and orange countries will not be diseased according to the approach. That rule, if I understand the highest order. Minister right, standing uncut. With regard to the other rule, and that's just curious because of the British sensitivity to vaccinate and there's a longer interval between: Does a half-vaccinated British travel to Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u46	A respectable president. That's exactly what I was thinking back there, and I don't have the answer. When this experiment was made in January to look better into the past and to provide multiple-dignity leadership to the community, there were signs and measures on the border of the lists according to the status as it was then. I think we all realize that if we were to take the color code exactly as it was then and put it in today, we would have to update it because we now have other measures than we had with them, to form a negative PCR test on the border that is now needed, which was not part of the vision in January. So I think it's clear that no matter how things turn out, we need to revise and update the limitations that each group has on the Iceland border.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u47	A respectable president. We're here to discuss sickness prevention, and I'm sorry, I just have to say, "Woody, shit, shit. " I'm sorry, but I messed up. We could have been so good. We have undergone three weeks of intensive health care. But is it not like putting a cap in a bottomless barrel where the border is? Sadly, the fact seems to be that one of every other passengers who comes to the country is being picked up at the airport, according to the latest news. A focused offense is said to be in progress: What does this tell us? Yes, it tells us that what we are doing within the country is going to be of no use unless we close up so that the virus cannot pass through the border. This requires, not a five - day contour, not an eight - day epidemic, but a 12 - day epidemic and a screening when people come in, shut up for 12 days so that they can't get into the community and scan when they are released. Why are you talking about just letting people in from red zones, not all of them? Why is this payable to the Icelandic State? The British said it cost $300,000. that they should be under an infestation, and that they should pay the full amount of money. Witches have paid full. Don't you think it's time for us to break off the moderate, mediocrity, hit the table, and stop the virus at the border? It's the only way we can run away from free heads inside this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u48	A respectable president. I notice the tone. In this discussion, a member of the body has made such a strong claim that he has done everything in the back. It's just not right. That's not right. A senator, of course, knows. It serves someone else to say so. That it's mediocre, mediocre, and so on. - I refuse that presentation and that language. I don't think he's responsible, and I don't think he's decent in this chamber. No evidence has yet been made of the guarantee of methodology. A senator would have given us something better. We're here in Iceland looking for action that we started in October. In my opinion, then, we did it a little too late because we were hoping we'd get it back with less action. Now we're doing this with a very hard and decisive operation that went into effect last night, and I hope we'll be successful in reaching out for the virus. We've benefited from being a small community, being an island, trusting people, having respect for people, and not using some kind of appeal and punishment in the way we work through the virus. And my opinion is that the success we have in avoiding a pandemic is that political biscuits were one of our most important factors in how well we have gone.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u49	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The health minister for the answer. I have to disagree with her because New Zealand got it, it got better. New Zealand had things like ours now, with antiviral land, they got it, and they've got it way better than we can do so. Children are now crying that they are not allowed to go to a bar mitzvah, and the second time in a row, children cannot celebrate birthdays. But there's something else I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to, it's the Brazilian ship. Is it true that they didn't report the illness when it entered the weekend? And another: What guarantee is there that the Brazilian virus will not escape? If there is a serious illness on board and someone has to be taken to a hospital, how will this be done? Is it safe, and has it been ensured that there is no danger that this Brazilian virus species will be released from the ship inland? What measures are being taken to ensure this, and what if they need to take someone who is seriously ill to the hospital?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u50	A respectable president. We have certain obligations to people who are seriously ill on a ship near Icelanders, and if they come up with serious health problems on board, they need to be cared for by the Icelandic health system. We have had very strong anti-pyretic measures against those patients who have had to lie down because of Covid-19 and we do not have an example of these cases being infected by them because we are very careful about these cases. I'd like to mention it to you, too. A senator, because he's going to be talking about children crying, that in all our actions, we have been guided by the lives and health of people, and especially by young people. I'm gonna pray. A senator is just reevaluating a case about someone wanting children to be crying.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u51	V.E.G. President. I appreciate this discussion today. I don't have a lot of time, so I'm just gonna sit around and ask questions. Is the European Medicines Agency permitted to be recognized by the National Competent Authority or the U.S.A. rather than to wait for the approval of the European Medicines Agency? That's the first question. The next question is: When will the people be vaccinated? Then I'd like to introduce to you this information mess that I have to call so much about vaccineing at 70 years of age and older, which was formerly 65 years of age. What accounts for this change? I don't think it's done well here during the discussion, and I know that people of this age ask themselves questions and that they would like to know.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u52	A respectable president. First about what I expect. A senator's point is, when he's asking about 70 plus 65 plus, that's the discussion of AstraZeneca, isn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u53	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u54	The reason exists for the reference to 65 and elsewhere about 70 is that a group of vaccinations in the European Union recommend that the materials be used before 65 years of age and older, as it is safe to do so. We have decided to start setting priorities for 70 years of age and older and then 65 years of age and older. That's why this may be a mistake. We assume that all over 16 will be vaccinated by the end of July. That's the numbers we've had now. For the Marketing Authorisation Holder (S) it can also be authorised or authorised by the National Competent Authority on the basis of the European Medicines Agency.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u55	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the answer. It was fine with 70 years of age and older, the explanation for that. What about younger people with pre-existing conditions that are more important, they will be vaccinated under AstraZeneca or not? Like the British, has there been any talk that more people have a degree of protection? AstraZeneca gives us 76% activity. Finally, I would like to ask about a story that now shows that there is infection outside of a carnivore that has to do with the sodas. I'd especially like to come into this because there's a common contact surface that has a rope. There is no controlled traffic, there is no disinfection, there are no compartments, there are no mass restrictions, there is no masking, there is not a rule or it is not followed. However, these areas may be skied, and these same ski areas are not allowed to open despite having all the setting in order. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u56	A respectable president. The prevalence order of vaccination must always be based on the current Regulation but in addition to the medical judgment on which vaccines should be used. It must, in fact, always be that way. For underlying conditions, etc. Of course, there are multiple diseases until coverage, and this is just part of the local health care assessment. It is correct for the transmission and connection to the stations. What's being done, from what I understand, it's been discussed about masking abuse and talking about walking in just one direction, etc., so it's trying to get around at the public defences and the police, taking into account the risks of disease prevention.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u57	A respectable president. I'd like to start by asking the highest. Healthcare Minister for the current procedures. We grabbed it fast and definitely in the arm brake, and if this works out, which we all hope to be natural -- that's exactly how it looks, a few people have been infected outside of the condensation since we did it -- we're not gonna relax on the hand brake as hard as we can see when we've got to stop the fourth wave, is it a wave? It's number one. And is there still any reason to believe that this will affect the optimism that has come to account for the fact that by May much more vaccinees would have been vaccinated, and we have gained a better grip on this? Although these three weeks of action are tighter, possibly for a shorter time if it is successful to stop, is it not just summer, as if we were starting to visualize it from May onward, unchanged, except for something bigger?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u58	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's questions. Yes, absolutely. First, the goal is to treat the hand brake so strongly, as we say, to be able to remove it in a very decisive way after the end of the three weeks if we maintain a certain level of confidence. We're starting to have a bit of a fire in it. There are always three possible stage photos: keeping the rules, relaxing them, and hardening them. The reason we did this so quickly now was that a psychiatrist thought that by doing so, we would be more likely to get a good grip on the situation. We agreed. I also believe that there is no reason to turn away from the optimism we had in mind when we spoke about the situation soon after a year's visit. Vaccinations are natural, regardless of the position in this country and we have actually received some positive numbers about the Janssen vaccine and how much of it comes in the second quarter of the year. Although not very fast this April, it will arrive considerably faster in May and June, which is very positive because only one syringe is needed. In other words, we are not interrupting the rhythms of vaccination and the possibility that we can re-enter the community, but this also helps us to determine the level of epidemics in the countries around us.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u59	A respectable president. Thanks for that. I welcome the highest words. A minister that hopes for the sacrifices we make, to tear down our hand brake now, will cause us to get it back in the fast run when we have reached it. I just want to follow up on this with the vaccinations and their availability. As with AstraZeneca, e.g. has been given this vaccine by young health care professionals and may now no longer be considered as safe for this group. What's the situation with that? Will there be any particular attention? Will that be accomplished? Also for those who have received their first dose of AstraZeneca and other vaccines, are they considered as vaccinated or not vaccinated? Now they will have to wait very long after the second dose. What is their position?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u60	A respectable president. If we're here to talk about the proof of vaccination, you don't have a certificate unless you've gone twice, i.e. if the vaccine is expected. For all the people who have received a previous dose of AstraZeneca, and who are part of this group of health care professionals and are often young, they are being examined, not only here, but in many places, how best to respond to that situation. We have time because it is expected that there will be three months between the first and second vaccinations with AstraZeneca. So there is time to explore and put on the stitches of how to handle the situation. It is not just being examined in this country. Rather, it is a medical examiner with his colleagues in many countries to evaluate their status.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u61	Mr. President. It did not have to be this way if the border had not leaked, seen in many parts of the Internet, in many of the community media, and even in media discussions. I keep asking the highest. Health Ministers to see if the legal rights are clear enough to oblige all tourists and local residents to live in a facility of disease if they come from red countries. Is room for approximately 1,300 people a week? One health - care professional has talked about the possibility of needing more contagion than a week. In New Zealand, we are talking about 14 days. And then I'd like to ask a few questions about these red countries, because a pathologist says that if one area within the country is red, the land is red. It is now a European color encoding system. What about the United States, what about Canada, Britain, if one area is red there? How's that? What will it be like? How does a health minister visualize this system, the color code system, and the presence of people at a cartel?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u62	A respectable president. Thank you. Senator. The first question is, Is there a legal right to use a diseasehouse? Yes, that's a legal warrant for what the Allied took care of here. So the question is, is if we are ready for all this group, we assume that housing will be ready for those who come from red countries today on April 1. They're working on it. It is proper to assume that the areas of the country that are most darker or red limit the requirements for the country and that it is therefore reasonable to do so in order to be careful. Hv. A senator quotes the Internet as saying about crossborder interactions and measures within the country. Then I'd like to say that the reason why we had a new group infection was indeed spread from the border, but it wasn't because of the rules, but because people broke the rules. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u63	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for. Yes, people broke rules and people break rules, and we have very little control of them, as shown earlier today, unfortunately. New Zealand is obliging everyone to a convalescent house for 14 days, and it is forbidden to travel that is not absolutely necessary. Now it is possible for those vaccinated to pass it on. They can carry the virus. The vaccination will protect you from illness but you may touch a surface where the virus is so that you can carry it on. What protection is there from proof of vaccination if you are, in fact, flying at many airports? What effect does a switch have on these red areas, yellow areas, green areas, if flown through Denmark or Poland? How does this affect us? [[The president calls.]] Where are you actually coming from if you are living in Oslo, a burning area, while flying through Copenhagen?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u64	A respectable president. First only about the surveillance. It's the police taking care of surveillance, as I did earlier today. Hv. A senator here claims that the vaccine can be passed. There is reason to believe, because there have been cases of a vaccinated person having the virus in the nose. However, we do not know if he is contagious or not, at least I don't know about that from a D.A. However, he has suggested to me that, in addition to the certificate of vaccination, there will be one stroke on the border, saying one sample will be taken on the border of those who bring vaccination cards. We've discussed how it might be better to bring both a vaccination certificate and a negative PCR test because there was a lower chance that there would be an interference in the travel programmes of the person who had good faith to bring a vaccination certificate and then to get positive results from a single screening on a border. [[The president calls.]] This is one of the things we have to consider, and I hope I can make a policy transformation through a Minister's Committee on Monday.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u65	It'll be the end of the day. Healthcare Minister's discussion of the oral report on the hard disease prevention of disease with his 25th speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u66	A respectable president. Once again, I thank the highest. The president for keeping a count of these talks here and would be delighted to have the conversation sometime, the cumulative numbers. But for all laughs, I'd like to thank you again for a good discussion here and a good conversation with the Council. I think it's a good arrangement. It was here from above that I came here all over the world before the changes in antiseptic law went into effect, but with changes in antiseptic law, it is certain and clear to deal with the epidemics of this magnitude, and maybe not just of this magnitude, but of some magnitude, that a minister at any given time will be able to improve the situation, the situation of the epidemic. I think it's good because this kind of epidemic affects not just health and health care as a whole. I'd also like to say that I'm very happy that the talk here primarily reflects solidarity, and I want to say that although we still have to put our heads behind us and turn the pies together in the hard work of the country, we know that we have very good results to defend. We have had a very good position in the country, and thanks mainly to the solidarity of this community, which we are fortunate to be part of. I expect the agreement through these three weeks that are the right port will lead us to the return of bright days.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u67	By letter, by day. March 25th, 2021, President has requested that, str. 8th cycle 1.mg. 13th par. Congress, to the Commission and Control Committee that it deals with a report by the National Reexamination Agency.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u68	Madam President. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize a patent law, no. 17/1191, sector 666. 1071. This bill introduces special access to the manufacture and export of concomitant medicinal products while the primary product still has a specific protection based on a so-called secondary certificate. The scope presented here has been referred to as manufacturing waiver, and is based on Council Regulation and Council Regulation (EU) 2019/933 from 20 May 2018 on a change in Regulation (EC) No. 469/2009 on proof of additional protection for medicinal products. The rules went into effect in the European Union on July 1, 2019. The EEA Convention has not been set up but will be discussed with the fixed committees of EFTA. It is predictable that this induction will take considerable additional time. Until the above exceptions have been implemented in the EEA Convention and formally implemented in this country, it is clear that the position of the cohesive manufacturer in Iceland differs from that of the manufacturer in the European Union. This bill therefore suggests that there will be changes in the regulations of the civil law of additional certificates and the proposed production requirements made by law. The exception is two ways, one of which, prior to the failure of additional certificates in order to collect and store products for the market within the EEA on the day of the failure of a certificate. The premise that it is permitted to use authorization is that the manufacturer is properly informing the Ideas and the owner of the additional certificate what he intends to do. This should be received at least three months prior to the start of the production by the relevant Member State. The manufacturer must then only be allowed to export production if marked with a specific logo as detailed in the Regulation. The identification label must be attached to the outer carton and, if possible, to the inner package of the product as well. There has been a huge growth in the production of concomitantly used medicinal products, especially biomedicants, especially outside Europe, where patents, protection or additional protection are not available or expired. To date, there has been no exception to the protection provided by the pro-drug manufacturers. This situation makes it more difficult for the cohesive manufacturers in Iceland to relax their position than the EU manufacturer can now take advantage of such production resources. It is therefore essential for the European Commission's competitiveness to receive comparable regulations for national rights as soon as possible. The bill aims to match the position of the Icelandic synonyms, thus promoting the competitiveness of the Icelandic manufacturers of hard, international competition, and to create export costs, as well as to preserve and increase jobs in Iceland. A respectable president. After a discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u69	Madam President. I recommend a bill to correct the conversion of electrical law, No. 65/2003, and Landsnets Institutes hf, No. 75/2004, sk. 1085, 628. The bill suggests changes in electricity laws in view of the past few years' experience with the act of the law. In common, their aim is to achieve reforms that aim to increase signal translucency of electrical activity and to promote increased efficiency and incentives for efficiency when it comes to transport and distribution of electricity and monitoring by the Power Institute, which eventually results in lower user repercussions without providing quality for these important infrastructures. The bottom line of this story is that in 2011 at the General Parliament of a bill was adopted to correct the conversion of electricity laws, which included fundamental changes in the specificity of electronic law in the sentence of income markets for the Landsnet and diffuser. In accordance with law, the Power Institute has the responsibility to set Landsnet and diffuse income limits due to the costs of transport and distribution of electricity, to regulate the limits of the income markets of these special marketing companies. There have been reports of problems with the electricity law on sentence and recovery of revenues, including the bill. You're responding. Great interests are involved in the order of the electrical layer of energy that is involved in the transport and distribution of electricity. Therefore, it is essential that the measures of electronic energy laws that set the limits of income sentences are both clear and efficient in support of the current target of electronic energy for the national economy of practical energy systems and efficiency and efficiency in transport and distribution of electricity. In the latter part of 2020, Fraunhofer's work and innovation report was presented on the analysis of the competitiveness of Iceland's large industry based on electrical costs. Following that work, Deloitte and I were moved to perform analysis of the regulations and procedures for transport and distribution of electricity, including In view of the indication in Frunhofer's report on the cost of transporting electricity in Iceland, but also in a larger context as well as a growing discussion on the general issue. Deloitte had a meeting with all stakeholders and received information and viewpoints from them. By the end of the last year, the Ministry received a report from Deloitte, followed by the Ministry, Deloitte, and the Power Institute to produce this bill I recommend here. Much of this bill is based on their proposals from Deloitte's report, which is public and accessible. The key elements involved in the bill are the following: First, in the bill, it is suggested that the power layer's objective be taken into account to ensure adequate power security is one of the goals of electronic laws. This is suggested in order to respond to indications from a pan-European energy security report on total electricity markets and to follow the focus and recent energy policies for Iceland. At the same time, the bill sets up a definition of the term electronic energy security and was suggested that the definition follow the indications listed in the workgroup on energy security and take into account the four-dimensional electronic security. Further criteria and criteria for adequate electrical security based on the definition will be implemented and explained in Regulation. That work is started and will be over for the summer. Secondly, changes in efficiency, clarity, and simplicity of the source of the Energy Agency are proposed to set Landsnet and distribute economic policies. Current sources have proved to be difficult and complex and have not been used. It is important that the Power Institute has this authority and can use it in logical cases according to economic assessments when it is found that the aim of the electronic energy law on operating efficiency is not achieved. The greeting is clear on this process in the bill itself. Third, it is suggested that the Power Institute have a better view and monitoring of dispersible investment programmes. Electrical law contains the authority of the Power Agency to monitor Landsnet investment programmes through a system plan, but no such sources are available for distribution investment schemes. Deloitte reports that the current system may involve economic incentives for dispersal hosts to overinvest. The network of distributions provides a basis for about 40% of the income market period. Is it therefore reasonable to believe that the Power Institute has a speculative control of dispersible investments. Therefore, the bill is suggested to inform the Power Institute about the methodology for investments and to promote their investment plans for the Power Institute at least every two years. The specific approval of the Power Agency is not required. Fourth, it is suggested that transport companies or distribution hosts do not meet the energy quality and delivery security targets in accordance with the laws and regulations on the quality of electricity and energy, and that energy agencies should be allowed to take into account the level of revenues. It has been noted that the current system is catalysed to delay the necessary maintenance. This can be managed by linking the power quality criteria, revenue sentences, and income limits monitoring. Such criteria can be found elsewhere in the North countries where they have been implemented so that the cut-off limits are reduced if the defined quality and supply safety criteria are not met. Fifthly, more efficiency and simplicity are proposed for the contribution of the Landsnet Systems programme to the submission of at least every other year instead of the present, which is annually. The experiences of the past few years have shown that because of the detailed systems requirements being implemented, it has been difficult to achieve a work programme every year. Similar problems have developed in other European countries, and various European countries have changed their protocols to put a system plan forward every two years instead of each year. That's what we're suggesting. Sixth, there are changes to the possession of Landsnet. The Landsnet Corporation Corp. Was set up by law on the establishment of Landsnets, No. 75/2004. Its owners are Landactivation, Rark, PGE Reykjavíkur and Ennishus Vestfjörður. The law says that only owners can sell property in their own land net. In the long run, it has been proposed that in some respects the national network, which has the patent right to transport electricity and system management, should be owned by energy companies and distribution agencies. This arrangement is generally in accordance with the core ideas of the separation of competitiveness and specialisation of energy markets. Energy market partners have increasingly made comments to the current arrangement and in the 2015 State Reconnaissance Report on Landsnet, it is important that all means are examined to secure and promote national independence from other sources in the electricity market. In March 2019, the government approved an employment force appointed by the Directorates of Employment and Development and the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs that was assigned to represent the Landsnet, its current owners and the State to determine whether or most of the territory could be settled in the Landsnet or to the State. The commission of the task force stated that the results of the discussions should lead to the signing of a declaration of will between parties. Such wills of all owners are now available and are the next steps in the case to initiate formal negotiations with owners. This involves reaching conclusions about the price of each owner's share and payment arrangement. To continue this project but with the bill it is proposed that the conversion of the transport company's ownership should be subject to direct State and/or rural society from July 1, 2022. Since there is no work left to negotiate such transfers, it is suggested that the proposed changes in ownership be carried out on July 1, 2022. Thus, there will be room for the work beginning with the change in land's ownership. Seven: it is suggested in the electricity laws that one of the activities of the Energy Agency is to keep a perspective and a check on backup. It is also suggested that in a Regulation, there will be more details on the surveillance and resources of the Energy Agency to ensure that adequate reserves are available to cope with the effects of the electricity system, such as natural disasters. These suggestions are in line with the results of a construction group from March 2020, set up after the Adventiststor so called in December 2019. Suggested suggestions were provided after what they had to do and the need for special action. In the eighth place, the bill suggests that the energy monitoring of the Power Institute will be supported. Electricity watch is financed independently through electrical watch fees paid to monitor members of the electrical market. The new project proposed on the bill has been costed and is suggested to increase by 30% from January 1, 2022. In this way, the electrical watch can deal with increased responsibilities resulting from the bill, which is in general the process of promoting and strengthening the electrical monitoring. The total is 30 million. K. which distributes over all electricity consumption in the country. As a result, the increase does not have a measurable effect on the company's electricity accounts or the public. In addition, the bill provides suggestions for increased efficiency and clarity, including with regard to time limits for the sentences of income limits, definitions of terms, energy exchange on loading stations, flexibility due to entry and/or the underdeveloped pay, actions due to tree management of electrical lines and so on. In February, the bill was opened in a court of agreement and received 18 comments from the government. The reviews generally reflect differences of interest stakeholders within the seminary and their differing interests in changing the order of electricity. In short, a part of the case is that too much dosing is undergone to change and to increase the management of the EU's own marketing companies and to reduce transport and distribution costs while others believe that the bill is too advanced to the advantage and increased control of the Energy Agency with special market companies. These differing viewpoints and priorities are taken into consideration by the bill. The bill generalises a moderate standard and does not go beyond what is needed to achieve the declared targets of the bill. Madam President. As I've traced, this is a huge and important case that must be handled well by the General. The bill is one aid in reforming the nuclear energy program presented at the beginning of February. I believe there is a great opportunity for improvement in this field, towards increased efficiency, simplicity and efficiency incentive, as I have here, and the bill I recommend here. I also view the bill as in line with recent energy policies for Iceland and its implementation, a document for the General and will be discussed in particular later on at the council. It may be that in the energy policy Action Programme, several points are referred directly to the bill I recommend. So these terms of Congress speak well together and continue to care for the road. A respectable president. After the discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u70	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the history of this case, of course important, especially for the delivery of electrical energy. I just want to look at it. 10 of section 3.5 of the bill discussing the quality of electricity and delivery security. It specifically says that the impulse to delay maintenance will be weakened. It states: The current system has been motivated to delay the maintenance of the necessary cost and to include the short - term benefits of the owners. Of course, it is a big, big matter, and we know that at the time of privatization in Britain, including the United Kingdom. The British railway system, began postponing and subtracting to achieve short - term produce that would then have serious consequences. National standards are considered and handled. On land, we own, for example. A large distribution company, which is largely non-part, owned by a private member. For example, there is a shortage of maintenance, knowing the highest. Minister? How is it being monitored? Who is in charge of adequate monitoring of the energy - carrying workers?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u71	Madam President. I can't give you a specific example of this, but this comes out of the job we went to and got Deloitte to hold our arms. Deloitte met with all agents and ran over the data and worked out the analysis we took and won the bill from both Deloitte and the Power Institute. But today, the Power Institute does not keep track of dispersal investments. It is not yet being proposed that all projects, totally down to minor projects, are being sent to the Power Institute and Power Institute have minor projects. This monitoring is suggested by the provision of the network for the Energy Agency's investment programmes. In fact, there is no monitoring today, and this is suggested to correct the problem because within the rule of work, there is an incentive to delay maintenance without being seen in the field of income. This is a suggestion, then, to make it up so that the Power Agency can monitor it more than today, by reviewing larger distribution investments at any given time. It is a suggestion that comes out of this work. It is estimated that there is an incentive to delay maintenance, and this is a suggestion to correct it in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u72	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I think it's very interesting. Of course, I rejoice that this is being handled and that it will be evident here and now that there is a need for monitoring. There must be a reason why there have been some cases of deferral. It is this moral hazard, in the case of the personal enterprise, to maximise the profit. The cases in Britain are well - known, as I mentioned, that humans have deferred and detracted to increase their interest in the work. That's why I'm so happy that it's in here and it's being brought to light that the present system is catalysed which leads to a delay. As I mentioned earlier, a very large public company is here, which is partly owned by a private citizen and is set up for certain remuneration requirements. I want to finally say, Madam President, that I'm glad it's on the bill. I think it's very important. However, it would also be informative to find out if there are examples of delayed maintenance. This could lead to serious consequences if, during the day, humans were tempted to resist important energy workers. When it comes to this important issue, it turns to the issue of communication and security.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u73	Madam President. Some maintenance can be said to have been delayed, and this is indicated in Deloitte's report. But just to correct the discussion, it can be said that the company was a good one. A senator specifically refers to, in part, the private person's possession, almost not underneath, but to the fact that maintenance has been delayed in exactly the companies owned by public property. It is a particular temptation, such as mental confusion. A senator comes in, he's right, and that's what we're trying to do. The current cost of earnings is fixed and delay in maintenance costs includes short-term goods for diffusers. But just as it is said, this proposal is not raised because of the type of company that is owned by a private person, but rather because of others owned by public property, in different ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u74	Madam President. In connection with this bill, which involves changes in electrical law and including electrical law. Electric security, I'd like to introduce you to a matter that's happened only because of the Gedingad sala and we all know it. The god in Gedingads is an amazing event. This is the first eruption of the Rhine Peninsula for 800 years, as we have seen in the media. We hope that this will not harm us, and it may cause us to consider things better with the Smokey Sonar and what could happen there. Scientists have said that this could be the beginning of a period of more sodas and there is uncertainty as to when the next soda will be. They have even said that there is going to be a marked increase in its fire metabolism and that there is a new beginning in the Smokeynes. These events all of us keep our eyes fixed on the electrical transport systems of electricity to the Southnes and its safety. There is no debate about the need to strengthen the electrical transport systems to the Southnes, however, there has been a debate over how to transport the energy, whether to use a new airline or a ground cord. These disputes have lasted for many years, unfortunately, and must say for the moment, and I have previously said in this chair that the government and the Landsnet have failed to hold on to this matter. Governments included develop a recuperator with a ownership warrant, so it's still in a hurry. But this is a big security point for the Southnes, and we certainly saw it now in the great earthquake explosion that before the eruption began that no one really knew what was going on and where would come to a eruption if it became the case. There was an energy force at risk. We saw a flow map published by researchers at the University of Iceland, where lava flowed over energy efficiency and electrical lines and could have caused much damage to the Southnes. That brings us to the electrical security. In preparing new electric transporters, there are many factors to consider, and the safety factor, of course, is a major factor. This metabolic event raises questions as to whether a Southnesic transport system is compromised, whether the current line box is above its head suitable for a debridement. I think it's normal, Madam President, to mention this here because the bill is about electronic security. Then I'd like to find out that there's been an idea of laying a cable between Straumsvík and Southnesia. The ideas are not new, and it would be interesting to know whether this possibility might not have been examined further and seriously, as we do not know how these cases develop in Rhinenes, and especially since scientists believe that the Smokey Basin is on the way into a new period of euphemism that could last for decades. I want to encourage the government and the highest. A minister to examine all possibilities in these materials, does not rule out any possibility when it comes to electronic energy security to Southnes, and does not rule out the fixation of a cable. It may be more costly and may need more maintenance. But it is important for humans to look at all these things and in cooperation with geographers because we are naturally experiencing things on the Smokenes Peninsula that no one expected would happen so close to and important energy workers, the eruption of Gedingadalas. This is an area that has been almost silent for 800 years, and no one knows what the future holds. However, these events indicate that this area is all becoming more active, so I believe that it is normal to look for the safest way possible to ensure electrical access to the Southnes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u75	V.E.G. President. I recommend here for a bill to correct a change in the P.R. law. In June 2008, open - air laws on public security were established, and they have since made little material changes. The law and the arrangement laid out in them has been tested when a public defense situation is established and a public defence level is declared by the state police. During the past two years, there has been an event. A storm of snow, landslides, earthquakes, a pandemic crown virus, and now last volcanic eruptions have tried public defense organization and are subject to changes in the depth of experience that has been experienced in the past few months. One of the findings of a special assembly set up following its predecessor in December 2019, was just to promote public protection through a legal review. The purpose of the bill is to better define the terms and focus on the change in action and suggest changes in action. The different public defence levels are defined in the bill and the term a time of crisis, but these terms determine when the authority of the law will be activated. The public defense levels are three, uncertainty levels, danger levels, and emergency levels, according to the severity of each crisis as the population has experienced in the past year. The bill also explains the responsibility of the police officer and the ability to react and the investigation of trauma tolerance. The name of the Public Safety and Security Council has been changed to a public defence in order to further illustrate its role compared to the National Security Council, which acted by law No. 98/2016. Small changes are made in the order of the council, including by allowing the secretary of transportation to become involved and the title of representatives in the council to be corrected for changes in institutions. In addition, the arrangements for the receipt of foreign helpers are laid down to ensure that the provision of civil staff should be permanently laid down, but this has been legally established twice as a provisional principle. The use of the product in the Covid-19 pandemic has shown that this source is necessary to cope with conditions such as the pandemic has now been due to the pandemic. The bill also suggests that only when this law is not sufficient and, of course, in the absence of other measures, the current law on civilian activities will be used. The changes in the review measures include the submission of the PMP, but the step-wise review is replaced by each requirement. Thus, after the completion of the procedure, the reactents will always be called together and evaluated. The Marshal is responsible for this and is monitoring that respondents make adequate improvements in accordance with the results of a review session. Exogenous review should be performed if control of co-ordination and management centres considers it necessary and would be called to persons with the necessary expertise. Often, there are conflicting issues. There is a variety of reactions that must be present and knowledge needed to deal with very different issues handled by the public defense system, as it has evidently been in recent years. In most serious cases, a justice minister may also initiate such a review, and I believe that this system is more flexible, taking into account the actual needs of each one rather than the systems that now exist. Other changes to your bill include It is necessary to ensure that no doubt about the role of the operator when the public defence level has been declared and that the community can function without interference in such situations. The bill is only the first step in revising the P.P. It is proposed that in the period 2022-202025 the total legal review will be carried out in accordance with the P.R. and Security policy adopted in a meeting of the P.R. and Security Council last week. A respectable president. I have now explained the subject of the bill, but it makes the public defense organization clearer, a key to dealing with natural and other threats. I suggest that the bill be following this discussion. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u76	Madam President. It's a matter of public protection, a sort of legal review. When you talk about P.R., you're talking about a lot of things. We are even discussing finding and saving in certain cases. We're talking about national security, natural problems, and other disasters that may be threatening us, and if anything, they've increased. I want to thank you very much. Minister of Justice for doing a donation on the case because there are a lot of benefits in this bill. Then, in my opinion, it has to go further. The next step could be reviewed by the P.O. and the preparation of total law, which may be relatively exhaustive and longer. Things have changed over the past few years when it comes to public defense, including what we can call anti-Semitics. It's usually just an increase in incidents in a number of ways. When I talk about public security, I am discussing national search and survival because these are inseparable items, although the daily survival of the Landsaver does not depend on public protection. What has happened especially is that we have seen an enormous increase in the number of tourists and will no doubt see it renewed when the virus has succumbed to our efforts. It has something to do with the P.R. It's inevitable. Climate change keeps calling for more projects, and it will call for more projects, whether because of landslides or the rise of seaboards or anyone else. Then comes into this unexpected event, as we see now on the Smokejanes Peninsula, i.e. A volcanic eruption that is in good places and small, but no one knows how to develop in itself. Nor does anyone know how events develop over the next few years and decades regarding agitation, both earthquakes and firework, on the whole of the Smokebones. So there's an increase in incidents. Since then, the attitude has changed toward the public defense. This has become more pronounced, we can only call it a community institution. The link to national security and national security is always getting clearer, so there is a particular change in attitude. I like the changes that have been made, such as. in the public defense and in terms of the clear authority of the state police authorities. Well, it's the Minister of Justice who's in charge of public defense. It's all known, and there's been quite a change there. But I want to take this step further, and I want to connect P.R. to the National Security Council and National Security and to make better coordination, planning and so forth. Then I'm not just talking about deportation plans, I'm just talking about head-to-head management for the whole country and part of the country for a different kind of disaster. All of this I want to coordinate and put under the Ministry of Presidency, which then deals with all other departments. Still, the minister of justice is the head of the State Marshal, who is responsible again. The Marshal is the High Commissioner for the Foreign Minister, and that doesn't change in my opinion. Of course, this would also include public security scientific Council, co-ordination center, local police officials, and the rescue forces again in different districts. These include, and we know and thank, in fact, over 4,000 volunteer workers, more or less, and are, of course, the foundation of public defence in the country rather than in the event of a piece, as some say. We can mention more people. We can name a general law enforcement officer, we can name the ambulances and firemen, but I usually feel that when the list is set up, and it's National Security. I feel that its central involvement in public defences and consultations should be emphasized particularly when these weekly meetings or every two weeks are and the members of the public. Of course, this is where the National Guard should be included. These are things that I would like to add to the problem when it becomes necessary to make the next decisions on these matters. It involves considering whether it is true that a part of this large group of volunteers -- which is and will always be the big task force when help and so forth - perhaps 5% or something like that - become the core of the country's rescue forces on pay. There will be constant workers who cope with the pressures of the volunteer forces without reducing their role. I'm thinking of a group that runs in the battery, and even things can take on certain types of action, such as quick searches and avalanches, where everything is built at a tremendous rate. It's a national core. Part of it may have a legal role so that they can perform law enforcement work in the highlands, for we now know, whether this highland park exists now or later or many national parks or how the end of that organization will be, of course, that there is a need for much more law enforcement than the common police have ever been able to carry out when it becomes possible for us to see what it might be. This may also apply to national security flight options, possibly a smaller rescue helicopter that has been discussed that could be so easily below the airport. If we look at this whole thing, I'm actually talking about developing a team of professionals as a relief to the pressure of a large group of volunteers that still plays a key role in all of this. These are the ideas I wanted to come here on the Navy. Finally, Madam President, I'd like to remind you of the P.R.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.A.S.S.S.P. and I met, that I know, just once, was never really active, but was supposed to do -- what? Yeah, she wasn't just supposed to be some kind of patrolr, she was also supposed to take the initiative to change. Such a group of members, therefore known as the Public Defense or Public Protection Committee, or what we would like to call it, is a group of experts in different matters, not as needed or in any other way, and is a side group at the Public Defense, a side group at the Presidency, if this looks like I'd like to see, where the machine is meeting regularly, how the organization works out each time, and most of all, but it sees what to be done in advance and must be done to improve the public safety, so I'll get a Slash, Mrs., Proctitati, and sometimes say. Then changes or actions have been planned before they need to be taken. I hope so. A top-of-the-art Board of Education and Education will take care of this great bill and I'll be done talking about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u77	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a hearing of public health policies to the year 2030. The proposal for a hearing of public health policies to 2030, adopted by the Council of the World in 2019, is presented here for the resolution of public health policy, but in the above health policies, the aim of the Icelandic health services to be on a global scale and public health care, with emphasis on health care and prevention, is to become part of all services, especially the health care services. The proposal for interpretation as recommended here is part of achieving this goal. It is also a factor in creating a debate about human health in Iceland, but it is essential that policy-making be on sound ground and that the views that are public health in Iceland to the year 2030 need to be settled. A respectable president. People's health is a cross-cutting term that has a broad definition. All ethnic workers are built on cross-cutting cooperation and cooperation in the community. Good People's health is not only dependent on the nation's life - style and good health systems but also on social and economic factors, such as education, employment, balance and social relationships, much of such factors as housing, accident prevention and even law enforcement, but also access to clean water. Therefore, it is clear that non - medical policies affect human health in many ways, directly and indirectly. Thus, growth in human health needs to take into account other policy measures with progressive cooperation and common goals in mind so that the synergies and success will be greatest. This approach complies with the government's objective to take into account the public health agenda in all planning and policy. Health problems for chronic diseases have gone on increasing, leading to increased health pressure in recent decades. The World Health Organization considers chronic diseases, such as cardiovascular diseases, cancer, lung disease, and diabetes, and mental illness to be one of the major health risks. In view of this, it is also considered important that the General Assembly handles public health policy for the next year. There are many opportunities to meet health challenges, and it is vital that we make good use of them. One of the main instruments is public health, with regard to health management and prevention because of the benefits that result from such measures not only from the quality of life of the people of the country but also from economic views. By focusing on preventing disease and helping people to choose a healthy life - style, they may be less likely to have poor health later in life. How important it is, then, to emphasize measures aimed at improving the quality of human health that embraces the entire nation! Iceland is increasingly aware of life - style that contributes to good health. To reduce tobacco smoking and the harmful use of alcohol and knowledge of the importance of proper diet and exercise have been effective. The proposal puts emphasis on health care and prevention that will become part of all services, especially in health care. In order to contribute the policy's objective to reality, the main objective is to support human health in Iceland through equality and equality. A respectable president. The proposal is, in effect, divided into seven chapters in the same way as an approved concierge on health policy. It is suggested that the future vision for public health in Iceland will be a world-based public health work that is characterized by a multiracial cooperation between health care and other health care providers in Iceland, e.g. Unites, focusing on health and prevention. People's health will be assessed by measuring quality, safety, success, bioavailability and costs and costs. In order for that vision to become a reality, the following subjects are emphasized in the main chapters of the proposal: Leadership to success. The section suggests a policy to explain the role of managers and work on improving control and coordination in public health work in Iceland. Second, the chapter has the right service, which is designed to create a global system that contributes to the health of all the people and to the practicality and equality of the country. Third, there's a section of the people in foreground. It suggests a policy to ensure a targeted public health work that meets the needs of users in an individual way and contributes to the health of all the people of the country. Fourth, active users, which section covers policy targets that contribute to active and responsible participation in human health. Fifth, a more efficient service purchase, a policy laid out to promote practical, targeted public health, in accordance with government policies and the needs of users. Sixth, quality and safety in public health. And finally in chapter 7, with the heading for the future, there is a policy to ensure continued progress in the national health of the people for the future. The last two chapters of the proposal suggest policy aimed at ensuring continued public health development. That's what it's like. suggests that Health Ministers order a group of personnel who wrote down that national health bill with emphasis on health and prevention and that national health data collection will be ensured. There is also a suggestion to implement measures in collaboration with key parties, such as rural areas. Such programs will be updated every year while policies are in force and health ministers will submit their annual public health agenda to the General Assembly. A respectable president. I have now explained the main point of this proposal for interpretation and have assumed that it will be referred to accordingly. At the end of a previous discussion, the welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u78	A respectable president. I recommend here for bill to legalize the market for financing. The bill's on the roof. 1081 and No. 624. The bill is large, about 160 pages, and it suggests considerable changes in the work of the European Commission. The bill includes the implementation of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council 2014/65/EU on the market for financial initiatives and the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council No. 600/2014 on the same subject. The 2008 international financial crisis revealed a failure in the economic markets. In accordance with the opinion of international institutions, the weaknesses in a number of controlled financial companies have been one of the factors responsible for the collapse of the financial crisis. Excessive and preventative risks can lead to the fall of individual financial institutions and an increase in system risk in individual countries and internationally. These factors led to the need for more reliable financial initiatives to ensure transparency, to promote investment protection, to increase investors' trust, to fill in order, and to ensure that surveillance agencies have sufficient authority to carry out their assignments. In order to accomplish this, the European Union adopted a new market policy for financiers to replace earlier regulations in the same field. A respectable president. In accordance with recent developments in the legislation of the national financial market, it is suggested that a new total budget will be set up for financing markets that will guide the regulations of the directive and of the Regulation in Icelandic rights and that the relevant regulations for the same content in the terms of stock exchange will be canceled. It is also suggested that the law on Wall Streets, No. 110/2007, should be removed and, however, any change in the stock exchange law will be made, No. 108/2007, as well as financial law, No. 161/2002. In addition, a minor secondary change in twenty other laws is suggested, mainly in terms of laws and conceptual use. The bill discusses these points: 1st The requirements for stock companies. 2. What is required of those who run the markets and markets themselves. 3. The requirements for reporting services are those that are required. 4. The rules relating to debt and insurance rights associated with derivatives. On the basis of the mother types discussed in the bill, the EU has published about 60 changes and secondary types which include: Draw closer to the arrangements made by the mother that are suggested to include either the Icelandic bill or the administration instructions. The bill, however, contains some changes from the current court. It has a greater value field than existing legislation, takes into account technical innovations and is aimed at increasing financial transparency and sharpening investment protection. The bill will e.g. changes in current employment permits, business practices and planning requirements for stock companies as well as new business types. In this case, monitoring authorities are provided with the authority given as part of the marketing, distribution or sale of certain financial products for the expected conditions. They can also include some financial operations or financial projects. Otherwise, I refer to a discussion in chapter 4 of the bill's report on changes from the current court. A respectable president. The changes in the bill that markets are most concerned about, according to the advice on consultation, are limitations affecting the income that can be derived from giving or sharing independent research or advice. Some feel that they have a significant impact on business models of stock markets. Changes in other market requirements are not considered to result in an increase in cost for investment services users to limit competition. In contrast, harmony with European rules in this area is likely to promote competition. The market directive includes minimum Member State requirements to adopt in each Member State's rights. In chapter 5 of this bill's report, we will consider how the scope built up into the directive is new, which has gone beyond its minimal requirements, and in what cases it is suggested that the current autologous directives be canceled. For example, in 2021 an increase in the status values for stock market projects is expected. This will take into account the increased projects that the National Bank will be entrusted with the bill, both cost and calculation of the monitoring fee. Thus, the use of the Internet on the state fund will be zero. This change in law is not expected to have a significant impact on the surveillance role of Iceland's Central Bank, which is currently monitoring markets in this country, and no effects on state funds are expected. In the end, it is reasonable to assume that the bill refers to a new set of measures to take on market fraud at the same time. The latter bill is in the conniving treatment of fish. 992, 584. It is intended to implement the European Parliament and the Council for market war. The issues are linked, e.g. In terms of values and usage, it explains why it is suggested that they gain value at the same time. The Act of the Law is expected to be on May 1, 2021 - let's see how the therapy works, if that's practical. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee, after the end of this discussion and then through 2nd. Here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u79	Madam President. Thank you very much. The financial and economic secretary of the past. You're right. You're right. In his speech, a minister says that this is a very important bill. I think it's clear that there's probably going to be some bait on this thing because of the magnitude of the situation, but I'm glad we're done. However, that is a question I would like to cast forward to the highest. Minister, i.e. Whether this has been fully consistent with the European Community legislation in this respect. If I understand this correctly, this is a full MIFID2, which is, of course, important. But I also wondered what appears on page 19. 80 in the bill, which says the law should take effect on May 1, 2021. I'll take it from here, tops. Minister, delaying the draft and giving the financial market an opportunity to respond to it? To be honest, it is a very short time to respond to this vast bill. So there are two things I would like to ask, on the other hand, whether or not there is a full harmony with the European Union's rules, and on the other hand, about the time of validation, whether it is too tight.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u80	A respectable president. Only in terms of the filming, I briefly began to think that it might be too short of a time. But at times it may be won, so to speak, and then to speak, and then it will be handled, and it will be held when it enters the council, even though it has not been written before. But, of course, the Senate must evaluate whether this is practical, including the following: taking into account the treatment period at the council. Then I'd like to call attention to chapter 5 of this bill in a specialized form on page 101. It is only available in this period of national recording, both briefly discussing the matter in general in terms of minimal requirements, and it discusses how the built - in scope is changed and in what cases goes beyond the minimum standards. In fact, I think it could be done better and more accurately in billmaking, but here it has been broken down on pages 101 and 102. I hope there's enough response to the question asked.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u81	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I think it's quite clear that in such a huge bill, where the law is short enough to take effect if the bill is approved, there will definitely be something that needs to be examined. Of course, I think it's important that these laws be accepted, but I'm a little worried about it and I'm wondering if it would be preferable to delay the recording to give the financial market a chance to react. This is a very short time in my opinion given to them, and it sounds like the highest. A minister agrees. I just wanted to step aside. On page 18. 103 on the bill will discuss consultation. I find something interesting, as the review of Arion's bank account is general, but it includes. Make sure that you do not go further than is necessary during the introduction of MiFID2 in Icelandic. I agree, but I am stressing that we agree with the European Union, that we have no other rules here than in the European market, which is naturally large and large, and we would like to compare with it when it comes to financing. In its review of Arazon's bank, the testimony points out that it is time to revise the legal section of law in a financial market. I think it's a bit of an interesting sentence. If the highest. A minister would like to respond to this, would he agree that a financial fair needs to be revised?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u82	A respectable president. I'm not quite sure exactly what is being referred to in the comments of Arion bank end up, as the bill says, the review of Arion's bank is quite general. But now there has been a considerable discussion of judgments committed in the past decade because of various matters that are rooted in the financial collapse. I shall not rule out a lesson that can be learned from a legal interpretation or a judicial action requiring response. What has been discussed recently, and I don't know whether or not there is a concordance with the views that Anionquone bank floats into this case, is the period of treatment. Paint time may have an effect in the context of appropriate repairs. I specifically mention the moment of treatment because it is shocking that we see the last decisions due to the collapse of the events that came in common with it now fall 13 years after those events took place. Of course, this is not acceptable during the course of the treatment. It's far too high a person's life to wait for a decision for so long.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u83	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to set up a digital mailbox on a central government service puzzle. The bill aims to improve effectiveness in public service and in simple contact with individuals. Through extensive development in telecommunications and information technology, individuals have been enabled to obtain information and services anywhere and at any time. As a result of the introduction and widespread use of electronic documents, people have to be more and more concerned with themselves with institutions and companies. This trend has helped us to improve public service. The Government's Declaration of November 30, 2017, states that a digital service problem should be developed where the people can in one place approach public services and take care of the issues that concern governments. With the portal of ice.is, we have laid a good foundation for such a service puzzle. At a government meeting in May 2018, the policy was established that digital services should become the main source of communication between government, public, and company. Then, on January 29, 2020, the Council of Congress states that financial and economic ministers have a major increase in the quality of public public public services. The central service mystery on Iceland is the basis for achieving the objective of the Declaration of Public Service to be digitally digital. An important step in this process is to ensure adequate legal clearance to send data to individuals and legislators electronically, allowing their display to have the same level of right effects as when sending data in other ways. Tens of institutions already use mailboxes to send data to individuals and legislators, although specific laws or formal rules have been passed on the service mystery or the data received there. The bill aims to eliminate any doubt about the proper effect of exposure in the mailbox. This bill complies with the above definition and allows the administration of data to be transmitted to individuals and digitally, to a greater extent than it is currently being done. Setting special laws on the mailbox ensures that the right effect of making data available in the mailbox will be the same as when data are received by mail or by other means. Once data has been made available in the recipient's mailbox, they are considered to be the recipient himself. The bill includes all the data, including reports, decisions, and rules that are bound by the recipient, in terms of time and otherwise the content of the data. Once data has been made available in the recipient's mailbox on the ice.is thus considered to be the recipient himself. The procedure to send data to an individual mailbox and to a local law on ice. This will result in a large amount of simplicity for recipients. Thus, individuals and legislators can be assured that all official data can be found in the mailbox. As a result, if those without any available data in their mailboxes on the Icelandis can assume that there are no outdoor data from the government over their heads, i.e. An empty mailbox there says there is no outdoor information. At present, the recipient receives mail to his home, but thus the sender has no knowledge whether the recipient actually reads the mail, whether it is a responsible letter or not. The same is true when display data using a policy certificate with the required certificate of publication. The certificate confirms that the individual has received an envelope, but the certificate does not indicate whether the recipient has studied the contents of the data contained in the envelope. There are other methods of publication, such as when publishing to those who meet at the local legal home, as it is called in legal language, that are less safe in this regard. By publishing the data into a digital mailbox, it can be said that the candidates are more likely to have direct access to the data, that the data are actually transmitted by the recipient, and thus have access to their material. But this can be said of a great deal. We do not go so far in this bill to demand that the recipient, in effect, have opened the data and confirmed their acceptance to make the benefit appear to be published, result in a greater degree of obligation involving abnormalities from existing manifestations. Thus, neither more nor less responsibility is given to the recipient of the benefit than to the current legal procedures. It is suggested that both persons and companies who have received the specified social security number in accordance with their own mailboxes, which they usually have access to. All will be given the option for access to mailboxes. Those in need of assistance or service, but such needs may be very personal. An individual's choice to receive data in another way is expected to be allowed to collect a fee for that service. However, such a price will not be collected until this law is fully implemented on January 1, 2025. It matters. In other words, we are not proclaiming that we agree to these laws will remove this new communication entirely and be considered as the legal method of publication. Rather, it will be fully implemented in 2025. It is a time of relative adaptation, and it is clear to all that we cannot switch from the long - term system that has been used by people, for decades, and that we are transferred to a digital mailbox just over the night of this year. It can never be like that. The arrangement will unequivocally lead to substantial savings for long - term government funds. At the same time, the bill will have a positive effect on traffic and carbon emissions, just because people don't have to be running errands all over town, and it saves the public a considerable amount of time. Despite the expected increase in cost and work at institutions at baseline, especially during the induction period, it is evident that in the long run there will be considerable financial gain for the community all, including the institutions involved. Great social benefits follow the adjustment of the law because of individual economics, and this also applies to the public. The matter is not least a major step in the government's important journey to largely improve public service and contribute to our becoming a highly digital Iceland in the near future. A respectable president. So I suggest that once we finish the discussion on the bill, it will be referred to. The Council's Economic and Business Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u84	President. I'm going to briefly enter this discussion on this fine subject, which I am convinced will be of good benefit, especially in order to make clear a warning that I and two others have. However, Congress officials of the left green did so by decommissioning a party of left greens. We believe that it is important that electronic identification provided by the public be sure to be essential for the completion of this case. In this context we remind us of a case that we've been living here year after year, and I've been the first transporter to, that the state provides a reliable public ID. I also remind you of the authority to purchase ID. It has been in financial terms, that I think, for a year or two, and such work as I've been over and over again, when I'm measuring for Congress guidelines on the safeness of public electronic identification that has taken place in the North countries where we have, throughout the North countries, been in a particular partnership. In other words, President, it is necessary, before we go into such national agreements as this, that citizens and citizens of this country are being enabled to obtain a reliable official electronic certificate published by the government, like other documents that are forced to be used by people, as it were. If the government has something to use to produce a product, the public is simply to publish it. I'd like to make an account for this notice, encourage the highest. A minister to the honor of either making use of the legal right to purchase or getting all of us to set up secure public e - mails.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u85	A respectable president. I'd like to give the final talk a few weeks ago and say that we're working to get the full identity of things. In fact, there has been quite some communication over the past few months because of that. They have both turned to the prices of the company and as far as it depends on the price of the state to pay to other shareholders, but the state is both directly and indirectly with a greater proportion of the stock in the community if we look to the segregation of the bank in that context. On the other hand, this conversation has been about the future and the future cooperation with the main service workers here, the financial system, and other such, as the public has shown great interest, if it were possible for them to get out of the community as shareholders, to have some kind of access to a field that would discuss the development of the software and the importance of society's affairs regarding technical solutions in particular. We have, for example, done well in trying to create such a scene for this largest person, since they could promote their views on the priorities of our society so that we would be better able to meet the needs of the user countries at a time. The price, however, may be more important than saying that we face this assessment as a matter of reason. A senator entered, of course, the possibility for the State to simply develop new electronic IDs on its own terms. Rather, we wanted to put into practice first, and we have helped create and develop, and all the peoples, so they say, have access to it, and the government is taking the cost today. However, it will not be finished without a price agreement, and we will need to compare these advantages a little in this context. Had to say this, I'd like to make it clear that I'm still very hoping that we're finishing our contracts on these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u86	President. Thank you very much. Minister for coming to inform us. I think it's very important that we get this out. That's good news. I'm thinking, because this is the first case I proposed to the Council and I've been talking about it since I was elected in here. I've talked about it and would have thought it would have been good for a minister of finance in the position he's currently in to negotiate a price. If the General had the wisdom to make this suggestion, we would have given the scales to the other side to say: All right, if we can't get together for the price, we'd just go the other way and make our own ID. It would make the government's contract better to have such a suggestion. That's why I'm especially happy to hear the highest. The minister declares that it would only then be possible, of course, provided that treaties will sail on the coast. I think that the way to buy part-time money in an informed company is wise because it's just so much simpler. It doesn't always have to be found out, so you can walk into what you already have. I'd like to, Mr. President, ask the highest. A minister in which he entered it gave us this fine news: Is there anything to say about the timing of this? Can we see that this is becoming a reality? It's the highest. Ministers agree with me and other members of the council of the left green that this is a prerequisite for passing the matter below?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u87	A respectable president. Yes, I can tell you about the time frame that I've been rushing this very late, and we're making a crucial attempt to complete this negotiation. I just want it out, if we don't get the deal on an acceptable basis. I just want it out to look at the options mentioned here. Regarding the other point: If we legalize a digital bioavailability requirement for everyone, who will hold the terms? I understand what you're doing. A senator is saying that there must be a state holding the foundation of the terms himself. However, we have done so widely in our technical resources that we offer all kinds of services to these systems. But I think there's a lot to it by then. A senator that it may be necessary in this particular case to simplify the possession and ensure full custody of the Society and thereby freedom from the interests of other shareholders in the community that may have other expectations of the community's role but fall together with what the State needs to see happen there. In this regard, there may be a great deal of simplicity that the State will solve all its possessions. However, I had been quite able to imagine that the state, if we were starting from scratch, would simply separate from having everything that was worked for us and that we could provide some role in this. But we are not there right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u88	President. Again, I'm just gonna celebrate the words of the highest. Minister. It sounds like we're pretty much in agreement about the important thing, and I'm glad we're at the top. A minister agrees with the viewpoint that the two of us and others in our council have discussed. I can agree with the highest. Minister to some kind of land of consultation, I can't exactly remember what wording the highest. A minister used earlier, the people involved in this situation may have a good idea. In the end, all of us want to have electronic identification that is safe only in an increasingly complex world when it comes to the electronics, but at the same time that property is clear on the hands of the State. We say to people, " You can't drive unless you have a special driver's license. ' You can't travel from country to country unless you have a special passport. And I think that we who put such conditions should take it from us to publish it. I just wanted to make it happen, Mr. President. I'll figure it out. Minister from the authority to come here and answer the counter, if he chooses to. There is no question about this. We've been having a nice time here. I'm just celebrating those words. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u89	A respectable president. I recommend a bill for a set of key information documents due to certain investment products for general investors. The bill suggests the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council No. 1286/2014, which has been adopted in the EEA Convention, will be given a legal value in this country. The protocol covers key information documents that produce certain investment products will be prepared before they are offered to general investors. That's where even the tides fall. The products of investment funds and special funds, life insurance with investment risks and combined financial products. In accordance with the Regulation, this information document is intended to become the basis for the investment of investors. The objective is to make it easier for them to compare information about different products with their characteristics, including risks and costs. The document should contain detailed, inverse and clear information. on the product subject, description of the risks it carries against the potential benefits, benefits that may be available and costs associated with investment in the product, accounting time and minimum time of ownership and counselling options for general investors. The main focus of the bill is the legalisation of the Regulation and the necessary rules, such as the monitoring of the regulations of the bill, the reporting of the Rapporteurs for information collection, the inclusion of the decision of the EFTA and EFTA Management Board, judicial hearings for the police, the protection of the employee for the reporting of activities and licences to set regulations and Seurdal Bank of Iceland. The bill assumes that the UN will supervise the procedure of the law and have standard surveillance clearances. The financial management will also be authorized, under special circumstances and under certain conditions filled, to ban or limit markets, distribution or sale of insurance-related investment products, a particular type of financial activity, or to conduct with a health insurance company. In exceptional circumstances, the EFTA monitoring department will have the same authority. In that case, the SEC can prohibit sharing of the key information document that is not in accordance with the regulations of this Regulation and may prohibit or temporarily stop the marketing of a particular legal investment product. Implementation of additional insurance protection, as it is permitted to give in this country under the laws on life insurance and the operation of pension funds, No. 129/1997, falls outside the scope of the Regulation. However, the Regulation requires the right of Member States to set the space of the obligation. In view of the fact that the agreements for additional insurance protection are about to be made on a number of agreements that meet the regulations set out in this Regulation, and the comparable information related to these agreements, it is recommended in the bill that a change in the above-mentioned legislation should be made in line with a key information document allowed to be made on the land. A respectable president. This bill sets a uniform box on key information documents for investment products directed to general investors and is linked to stocks and insurance. In addition to increasing financial participation in the financial markets, growth in markets and efficient prices may contribute to investing investments that information may lead to investment decision-making, which more fully reflects the actual risks of investing. This may enhance transparency to produce a more diverse investment, which, in turn, leads to an improved risk distribution into an investment library. I suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee following this discussion and then the 2nd. Here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u90	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize a financial law, no. 161/2002. The bill suggests a few changes in financial law to enable the Ministers and the Bank of Iceland to introduce with the administration of several European regulations for financial enterprises. The most important of the types involved in limiting the scale of banks and their chances of financing long - term bonding with unstable short - term financing. Both changes support financial stability. Legal changes required to enable the Ministers and Secret Bank of Iceland to introduce these types are mainly subject to narrowing the definition of high-risk commitments, to reduce the obligation of small financial companies to provide data and to what may be considered for the general financial resources. In addition to conforming to the national commitments of Iceland, the timely introduction of these types, including the U.S.A., is timely. It is necessary to ensure that information exchange between UNECE and other authorities in the European Economic Area can continue at the end of June of this year, when part of the rules of the Council takes effect in the European Union. Then the bill is also suggested that theisation agency and the local loan fund be suspended in a legal way on financial reform programmes. They will discuss how financial companies will cope without having to rely on public financial contributions. This section is based on a European Directive for dealing with financial problems. In view of the fact that there is no traditional financial enterprise, the credit institutions owned by government agencies are the exception of the directive and the Icelandic legislation on the return management of financial companies. However, a comparable exception has not yet been recommended from the section on financial reform schemes. It is important to assume that both institutions, together with the Department of Transport and the Ministry of Transport, have presented the opinion that it is essential that the section be excluded as soon as possible. Iceland's SEC has concluded that the requirements for this section are not relevant to its institutions. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u91	A respectable president. I recommend here for bill to correct the conversion of the conductive and centrally shaped laws, no. 15/2018. The bill includes the implementation of Council Regulation and Council Regulation (EU) 2019/834 for the variation of Regulation (EU) No. 648/2012. It suggests some changes in the law of decontamination based on EU Commission assessment of the quality of legislation and whether legislation has achieved its objectives. The results of the evaluation included The need to minimize the various requirements of the Regulation, mainly those made for economic developers and smaller financial reformers, and to improve the quality of the information collected on de-mutation. A respectable president. Hence, the bill means that there are many requirements for economic molding and low financial shapes. At the same time, the duties of large financial shapes are increased to some extent. The changes will affect people in this country, which most of which are considered economic shapes or poor financial reformers. The change is aimed at simplifying various responsibilities for the deduction process, even competitiveness, and reducing the cost of business without reducing the translucency in the conduction market or in the monitoring and invasive authority of the Rapporteur for the system risk. This change in law is not expected to result in an increase in financial monitoring of Iceland's Central Bank, which supervises the implementation laws. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee, after the end of this discussion and then through 2nd. Here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u92	V.E.G. President. I hereby suggest a resolution on the response to the information raid from the greater part of Iceland's Council of Northern Ireland. It means that the General concluded that the prime minister would appoint a team to shape a policy for dealing with information. The task force needs to be: a. provide tools to map out the distribution of information collections in the country, b. Define the responsibility of the institutions of the country and its partners for integrating projects in this field, c. the assessment of the legal environment, and the existence of necessary legal modifications, d. suggest actions and organisations in the fields of information and services that cover all age groups. The staff will submit a report with proposals for Ministers no later than March 1, 2022. The minister continues to present a policy based on the proposals of the Group for the Council no later than November 1, 2022. The proposal is now reimbursed from the last council somewhat different. Access to sound information is essential for informed discussion. In recent years false information, so - called false stories, has been more widely distributed and with the development of social media, with increasing use of it increasing. As technology spreads, real news and false news are increasingly difficult to distinguish. Thus, the importance of communication has never been more, but the term means that a person can separate false news from real news. False news and their impact on election ends and democracy in general have been very much discussed in recent years, particularly since the election in the United States in November 2016 and the National Book of Bgret in Great Britain. Research has shown that foreign people have tried to influence elections by various means, including the distribution of false news. The main focus in this country has been placed on providing information and technology for children and young people. National research has shown, however, that people 65 years of age and older are most likely to share false news on community media. There is a risk that users of community media are caught in a vicious circle with a range of information on the users of the servers collected and tailored to false news and propaganda. And as I say, at the highest. President, this may not be a surprising conclusion, that older people are more likely to spread false news on community media, but there is something to consider and react to. Today, children and young people grow up with technology and community media, learning about this as well as teaching one another while older groups may be dejected with little warning and having to take a lot at once, perhaps making them weaker from false news. They land, for example. in all kinds of online frauds and all types of viruses, and this, which can lead to very serious consequences. It may be not only about information lock but also about this channel and how you can read information and appreciate its value. Clearly, we need to put more emphasis on the older age groups in order to protect them from these harmful things. Information problems are mainly involved in discussing controversial issues. The goal is to spread propaganda or to mislead social discussions. Information problems affect the public's ability to get the right information about government policies and decisions and other interests. It poisons social discussions, increases tension between different social groups, and undermines campaign systems, which can seriously affect national security. V.E.G. President. The most intimate and tragic example may be the last election in the United States, where various groups took advantage of both false news and such mismanagement to face groups and people that ended in disaster at the Washington U.S. House. The correct information and access to information are the absolute basis for democracy. This is a real problem that we need to take very seriously here on land as well as elsewhere and in nomadic cooperation. In view of the harmful effects of public democracy and information, many of our neighbors have taken these issues to the limit during the past few years. For the European Parliament's election in 2019, the European Commission encouraged action in the Member States and introduced a work programme to reduce the impact of European information trajectory and to protect the core value of democracy. Rules were set to reduce information mess, as the largest community media, advertisements, and organizations committed themselves to follow. There is the active group of East StratCom Task Force, which has been evaluated and charted with information collections from Russia in Member States of the EU. Also, in Sweden the government has proposed a white book that will be considered to establish a new organization designed to increase the nation's resistance to external disaster. The Agency would include ... toseethe informationprogramming of the campaign in Sweden. One of the most effective ways to cope with information management is to increase awareness, education and training of the public in the field of access and information. The Icelandic government, however, has not yet developed a comprehensive policy that covers all age groups. There is a need for awareness and increased education in this series of subjects. According to the press law, a media commission is designed to promote the press lock. In this context, it is positive that in a bill to correct a change in the media law, no. In this respect, 38/2011 (EES instigation), a government consultation, is expected to increase the role of the media committee. V.E.G. President. In 2020, Iceland was premeditated in the Council of Northern Council and had in its prehuman development program used a discussion of the distribution of false and misleading information with the aim of increasing consciousness and knowledge of the common people. Evidently, much less is known about the extent to which there is an abundance of information in this country than in many parts of the country where the distribution has been mapped to a much greater extent. This process must be halted and the distribution mapped here. In this context, we would do well to consider the most practical methodology in a foreign country. The national responsibilities of the Agency should be defined by the countries and by the members responsible for integrating projects in this field. Then an assessment of the current legal environment in this area needs to be made to define what adjustment is needed for institutions to fulfill their role. It is preferable that in a working group to shape a policy-making strategy to address information level, the main institutions involved in communication and security, as well as advice and other relevant institutions and institutions, are represented. The main areas associated with measures to counteract the negative effects of information disorder are: 1st Media and information. 2. An act to counteract hatred speech. 3. Education for the public media and information agents of the institutions. 4. Does media and social media require campaign support, including advertising, publishing the results of the polls, etc. 5. Implementation plans for state and rural organizations due to organized activities and/or organized information campaigns with false information. 6th The training and re-education of public workers on the information problem. 7. Legal adjustments, such as Germany, France, and the United States, on various issues involving subversion and anonymous propaganda. 8. Systemic research on the distribution of false news and information into a foreign role model. 9. Communicating with neighboring countries on technical solutions to detect and eliminate online information disorders, including material produced and loaded using artificially diagnosed. At this council resolution, there is a greater proportion of the Council of Iceland, which is the one that stands here, Inga Sæland, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Odnew G. Harðardóttir, Steinunn ÞóraÁrnadóttir and Vilhjálmur of the Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u93	Mr. President. Although I'm not going to go out on a lengthy discussion of this matter at this point, I think there is still reason for caution against such ideas. It describes a problem that is real. It is a real problem that many false stories are being discussed, and even foreign countries are suspected of trying to influence public discussions and political situations in other countries in an organized way, by distributing false information in an organized way. So I don't interfere with the rightness of the proposalaries about the present problem. On the other hand, when such ideas come to the conclusion that a stately effort to ensure that public opinion and information are correct, I will be discouraged. It is dangerous for the state to feel that what is the right information and what is wrong can be written very quickly, and if this is not a careful matter, the other side of the coin can be approached quickly. There's a problem there, but there must be a very careful step to the ground, so we don't go into a censorship. Many of the things being said and presented in a public discussion can be debated. It can be debated about what is right in it and what is wrong. I have to admit that I always feel cold when I hear an idea that the state of state is going to put herself in court for the information and the opinions, the opinions and the facts, and the wrong. Without trying to minimize the efforts of proposalists to deal with a problem that's real, I'll say that when the council talks about it, it needs to be very carefully watched out by freedom of speech and freedom of speech. If you choose to control your freedom of speech and your freedom of expression and take the chance that false information is coming and spreading false news, I'd rather take the risk of spreading false stories and that the wrong information is presented than doing the censory.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u94	A respectable president. I can agree with the senator that it's a very fine line when we're discussing these things. I agree that we must not impair our freedom of expression and have a hard censorship unless clearly necessary, and perhaps, as I mentioned earlier, if for example. it is national security. Consider an example that I mentioned in the previous U.S. speech, a recent election in the United States, where local centers felt that it was a reason to shut down the then president of the United States because he was considered a threat to democracy and a threat to possible national security by misinformation. This may be a real danger, and we always have freedom of expression, as well as public interest and national security. It's certainly complicated, if it wasn't so complicated, we'd have made laws and rules, and we'd frame them properly. I wanted to ask the senator who opposes him if we do not agree on the emphasis we primarily need to apply, i.e. in the public's opening of information - I mentioned it in my speech earlier, and it shows that older groups are often worse than young people - whether we do not agree that the government's focus should be on promoting information, making it clear that when it's being held out wrong information, perhaps by some means we should look for only the source of the information and whether there is any knowledge in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u95	Mr. President. Of course, I can agree that key elements to promote a more reasonable, well - informed discussion must be pushing critical thoughts, promoting where the right kind of information is looking, whether or not they are dealing with it, so that people can decide for themselves whether they will take a note of something they see on community medias or elsewhere on the Internet. I realize and agree that this may be a problem, but the fact that public members, public committee, public agency, public agency, or someone intend to go to the blackout on what is proper information, permit information, and information not to appear to the public is a very unpleasant idea to me and would always take a stand against such suggestions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u96	A respectable president. Yes, it is difficult to see how far the State power should go to weigh information. But we don't just have democracy. I know why. A senator well knows that we have been talking about Internet security and multi-item threats, and we know that distribution of false news and information is a method that is used effectively. Some countries, yes, I can say it here, like Russia, are known for being highly developed in that field. This is a targeted and planned process, and it can have very serious consequences for what we trust in, i.e. Democracy is founded on a measure of trust. If trust goes away, I'm afraid democracy is a real threat, if we can't trust that what we're told is true and right. As I mentioned earlier, our main allies and neighbors have been putting a fixed frame around these things in various fields, laws, and rules. Does the senator not agree, however, with the reasons he has already mentioned, that we should go to this job and look very carefully, of course, critically, what our allies have been doing, and whether there is some reason why we should follow in any way their circumstances in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u97	Mr. President. I'm not gonna answer it with a yes or a no. Of course, we should learn what is going on in the countries around us, but in advance, I do not agree or object to any suggestion made there. I simply think that we have to deal with the problem of information and false news in ways other than limit freedom of speech. Even if someone says some awful things, some awful nonsense, in public, I don't want to forbid the person to say it. On the other hand, I want someone to reason with it, to communicate the right thing. All the restrictions on freedom of expression and all human rights, in our countries around us, are based on the fact that the information is being guaranteed. The government, whether in the Soviet Union, China, or Turkey, under the current direction of Erdogans limits public discussions, restricts freedom of speech on the grounds that they are trying to stop false information, prevents people from being confused with false stories. Erdogan temporarily shut down the Internet to stop misinformation. In Uganda a few weeks ago, the Internet was shut down for several days before election because the then government thought the government was using the Internet and community media to share false information. If we talk about some action that limits freedom of speech in this regard, we are at a very high level of ice cream. But it's good to realize the problem. In the lands around us and in what ways others will react, we do well to examine the discussion as it takes place. But I think the only way to deal with the wrong information is to spread the right information, deal with it with reason, handle it with information, not with bans.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-26-75.u98	I hereby recommend a resolution for a resolution of the conclusions of the Western Council in 2020, of the Westnoric Department of the Westnoric Council. It's not all that seems, as will be seen later. The suggestion reads as follows: ▪ The General concluded to challenge the government's work on the implementation of the three resolutions of the Western Council adopted at the Council's annual meeting on November 6, 2020, to further cooperation with the Western Minister of the Northern Nations (nr. 1/2020), increased cooperation with Western Ministers responsible for northern affairs (nr. 2/2020) and to support the addition of the Faeroe Islands and Greenland to the World Health Organization (nr. (For example, see publication). An essay with the proposal says this: Three conclusions were adopted at the 2020 Western Council meeting, held on November 6, with telecommunications. The first involves increased cooperation between the international co-work ministers of Iceland, Greenland, and the Faeroe Islands. In 2002 a joint agreement was made between the Western Council and the government of Iceland and the National Governments of the Faeroe Islands and Greenland, on the other hand. That agreement requires a annual meeting of the Vitanoric Minister with the Western Council Presidency Committee for Prime Ministers and the annual report of the Minister to the Council on its sequel. Yet, there has been a lack of mutual cooperation with the Ministers on the conclusions of the Western Council and its implementation. No. 1/2020 calls the Western Council, according to the international cooperation ministers in Iceland, Greenland, and the Faeroe Islands making a multi-annual meeting agreement. At that meeting, there will be a discussion of the findings of the council and further cooperation with Iceland, the Faeroe Islands, and Greenland. This will contribute to increased coordination between Ministers and governments, increased information flow, when it comes to Western interests. In conclusion of the Western Council No. 2/2020 is called after a formal Western partnership in northern languages. Climate change has had a tremendous impact on the North Sea, with the melting of ice at the Arctic, affecting resource use and navigational routes. These changes cause tension between countries in and around the north, and it is necessary to strengthen international cooperation to ensure stability in the region and to promote sustainable solutions to the challenges facing. In view of this, the Ministers of Iceland, Greenland, and the Faeroe Islands, who attend the Northports, are encouraged to meet each year for the advancement of Western interests in the north. The Ministers are also asked to provide the Western Council with a joint report on the Western governments' policies in the Arctic and the Arctic Council. In conclusion of the Western Council No. 3/2020 is the government of Iceland and the National Governments of the Faeroe Islands and Greenland are encouraged to support the possible addition of Greenland and the movers to the World Health Organization, WHO. The World Health Organization, under the United Nations Organization, has the primary goal of promoting health. The Agency provides the Member States with support and technical assistance based on science and research, set standards and help with their induction. The Agency has a wealth of funding for research on health and the wide network of investigators who provide new knowledge and techniques for coping with various challenges, such as we know today of the Covid pandemic. At present, the Federal Governments of Greenland and the Faeroe Islands operate with the World Health Organization through the Danish Ministry of Health and are invited to participate in the Agency's main meetings. Yet, when it comes to health care other than Denmark and may have other research interests, self - management countries of Greenland and the Faeroe Islands face challenges. Countries that do not have full independence and the management of foreign affairs can be added to the Agency. The application for additional money must be received from the state of the countries. In recent years, the Faeroes have declared their will to be added to the WHO's increase, and the Danish government has responded. Mr. President. In short, I have made three suggestions for the council, so here's an offer, three for one. This suggests that the National Department of the Westnoric Council, together with its stand and cover up the storm. Senators Egilsdóttir Eglursdótttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Brítís Haraldsdóttir, Guðmundur In Kristinsson and Magnúsdóttir Rafney Magnúsótir. Mr. President. I will now conclude my case as soon as I am chairman of the Western Council and my last speaker here in the Council of Easter before Easter wishes members, staff, and all the people of the country to be happy during the troubled times in which we now live and wish peaceful days at Quartal week and Easter.
