ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u1	The president considers an agreement that may last longer for a meeting than the Parliament can expect or until a financial discussion is concluded in the agreed agreement. Let it be considered approved if no one says the same thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u2	As an answer, financial and economic minister, transport and local government ministers, education and cultural minister, social and child - care ministers and resource ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u3	A respectable president. In Iceland there is a class distinction and it bites children to the worst. Consider an example of two children. On the one hand, there is a child who dwells at home carefreely with his parents and has good things to do. The other child lives in a single parent's home, with disability and spiritual and financial concerns. The unconcerned child can continue to live at home and pursue higher education without taking a student's loan and being able to choose from university without worrying about cost. They do not have to work together with study, and they can consult a psychologist if they have spiritual worsening, thanks to parental support, and can even graduate at the end and receive financial support from their parents to buy their first apartment. Your child's spiritual and financial concerns need to choose between moving away from home and living at home when he is nearly 18 years old and not being able to attend a private university because of higher education costs. At 20 years of age, home - to - house work falls, and when the child continues to live at home, his parents'provisions will be significantly impaired. Furthermore, children's pensions die at age 18 or at 20 if the child is in full - time education. They need to rely on student loans throughout the university, and they can expect serious financial consequences if they fail to test and cannot afford to consult a psychologist if they have to get worse spiritually, have to work together in the winter, and thus have less time to focus on the study. Does a minister think it fair to think that the opportunities of children in Iceland are so wrong based on the financial welfare of their parents? Does a minister naturally feel that children of single microorganism need to be exported so that their parents do not suffer significant financial difficulties? Is it reasonable that poor people's children have to make a debt, as well as work while studying, in order to reach a university degree? Is it not just fair and reasonable to expect children to live carefreely at their parents'home while they are studying, that children do not have to worry about their financial situation, let alone their parents, during study, as do other children?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u4	A respectable president. Before I answer that inquiry, I want to say that it is generally good to be a child in Iceland and in general, so Iceland is a country where potential children born under difficult circumstances and more challenges are most likely to get ahead in life, and that's good. Do we have to do more? Yes, we need to do more. Hv. One of the points that a senator mentions when children are living with parents to form single parents who are desperate pensioners, is that the parent will continue to receive household chores when his child is studying. When I started serving as a minister, it was up to the age of 18. At the end of 2018, we changed, allowing this period to be extended to 20 years. That is a change that has been made in the history of this government. However, the matter has come up, and we have considered whether there is a reason to respond to it. The reason for the 20 years is that it is because once the person has a university education, he or she has the possibility of borrowing a loan or something like that. You might wonder, " Is there any reason to be more concerned about this matter? ' But we have already opened up our age from 18 to 20 years, but we, from examples that have come up, have come to see if there is any reason to make any further changes in this system. We want all children to have the same opportunity in Icelandic society as our system to hold them and encourage them in any way possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u5	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Social Affairs Minister for an answer, but I can't accept it because it's not normal to punish children for wanting to live at home during school. If they could extend this by two years, they could do the same for them, so that during study parents would not be punished. What's always happened is where to get the money? It is always said when it comes to microbubbles or their children. There's no money. But will it be the same time when foreigners are to stay in a fishing house? It is possible to pay if the Norwegian and the English do not pay. There seems to be always money in anything but to help those who need help most, i.e. single - parent families, microorganisms, and their children
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u6	A respectable president. I do not intend in my reply to mix the government's disease prevention procedures with the status of microenergy pensioners or children living in difficult circumstances. On the other hand, I'd like to say and repeat that we've taken steps and made changes by increasing our age from 18 to 20 years. We did that during this terms, at the end of 2018. In view of what has since developed and the problems we have received, we are considering whether there is a greater need to make further changes in support of young people who are studying and living in such circumstances. There is simply no decision to make, but we are drawing out a number of possibilities for responding at the same time. A senator was asking and making additional motivation for such youths to continue studying, so that they do not have to leave home, they do not have to go to the job market, etc. and can continue to educate.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u7	Mr. President. Many times we have observed the government reporting increased funding for public construction projects. Since the reign of the government began three and a half years ago, such declarations have been being made by governments. In the 2017 fictitious Treaty Treaty District Convention, the Left Green and Independence Party, it is spoken of as speeding up road structure and making many comments about the challenges faced in national infrastructure. During those days of the government's wheat bread, they were to take steps to make up the great need for investment that lay before them, including the time of the end. In the road system. During those first days of the government, governments presented the major projects that would be needed to take place, including a two - fold foot block from the capital area, the Rhines Way, the Southland Way, and the West Side of Kjalarnes. Since then, government officials have reported additional funds to the road, several times. The government has also presented special challenges. The government introduced special public projects at the beginning of 2019 when it became evident that the economic investments were getting together. It is best to remember the campaign that was announced at the beginning of the Covid epidemic that would provide additional government projects to fuel the lives of the citizens of the land because of increasing unemployment. It's supposed to be a special government policy. In view of these statements, the recent assessment of Iceland's Habitats states that public projects have met by less than 11% in 2019 and again last year, 2020, the official projects have been pulled together by 9.3%. That's why I want to ask the highest. Transporter: Has the highest. Despite the repeated and beautiful promises of the government's expanding projects, do ministers explain how public projects meet year after year? Here we go. A minister of surprise, like me? Where did that money go? Or did they never come?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u8	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for reviewing the government's key policy in the infrastructure. In fact, in the season of election, we have spent an average of 17 billion over the years each year on the road. We've increased construction funds to reject about 300 percent. There were 400 million in the years before this government began ruling, but today there are 1,700 million people each year. I know why. A senator travels through the country, especially our districts, and sees all the current projects. I'm gonna be, like, what? A senator, a little question mark in front of these definitions of the Habitat. Are the exact same methods used to analyze investment? There is no question that transport projects have never been further. That knows why. Senator. He sees it, he drives them around, he sees the road workers in progress. He knows that the harbor has never been done so much. He sees it, he has visited the places, and he knows it. Of course, the numbers speak for themselves. We have also had considerable investments in innovation. Is it defined as an investment from the Hauspú? These are things that need further analysis so that our system provides the same information. But there's no question. A senator, that we have certainly lived up to the goal of putting considerable force into the infrastructure. All around the country, it is happening. These include the three founding pathways he mentioned, where we gave special attention to separating road policies. All these projects are going on, far along, or they'll be out in the next few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u9	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. He makes mostly comments to the Habitat definition and her assessment. In other words, the messenger is to be shot. We're not talking about increase, like the highest. Minister here, he's talking about growth, but we're talking about contractions, 10% in a row, Mr. President. And we are going to shoot the messenger, Haushaust: they have a wrong thing. The microblown highway in Kjalarnes has been extremely slow. There is no craming on the double smokejanes track at the plant, where the road is one lane in each direction in a section over five miles [5 km], leaving the main course at the airport. We did not make beds on the circle above Lake Red, where there is a long ridicule. There was a section eight miles east of Whoville, but there was nothing left to do on the Elfjörður Bridge. The most difficult situation, though, is here in Reykjavík. Of course not on a Sunday night or on a Sunday night in Reykjavík. There's no work on any stock. Of course, no one is aware of this agreement on transportation in the capital area. [[The president calls.]] All of this happens very slowly, Mr. President, at the speed of the snail. Now the government is completing its fourth year - fourth year: Will these projects be carried out by the next government?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u10	A respectable president. I'm thinking about suggesting that I invite him. A senator with me driving around showing him the projects, if he doesn't believe it. I wasn't shooting the messenger, I wasn't saying that the Hausp was doing something wrong. I was just saying that different systems tell us different things. The fact is that we have never seen such projects in transport, so do we in the capital area. It's all going on, even though it's not cutting in and out, it's not what I think is most important in my life. We took, for example. A big part on the Smokey Way to make it happen. There was no haematoma, there were no ribbon cutters. But if you do. A senator will miss them. I'll just take him on a roll with me and show him what to do. Every day, tens of thousands of people enjoy more traffic security when they go through new projects that have been completed or have delays due to current projects. That's the fact. In other words, it's all going on. The good news is that we have also made sure that this project will continue in the years ahead because it is not a work assignment that humans take during one term period, cut to eat, and then retire. [[The president calls.]] It's a big project, and we've started it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u11	Mr. President. The climate is one of the most important issues in politics now and in the coming decades. In order for the nations to be able to prevent disaster from occurring, the years must all be cut off. They need clear goals and increased financial resources, green investments. Iceland can't leave its mark and the government can't give up. Instead of showing real ambition in the climate program for the next five years, the government employs statistics and calculators to raise their contributions. It is certainly a little sad that, rather than obvious action against the climate problem, let us see the growth of contributions, Mr. President, during the financial program. The decrease in donations for climate change is clarified, including of the taxable attractions that should be drawn each year to 2026, in times where we will need large green investments and the government will have to pull the wagon. It needs to speed up the city line and other green transport improvements, increase energy exchange and recycling economy, the real amount in technical solutions, and make us proud of international affairs, not because of past fame and repairing the heat system of 1937, but by new measures that meet international competition. In view of all of this, I'd like to ask the highest. Environment Minister, whether or not he is pleased with seeing the contributions to climate increase, in order to show a clear ambition for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u12	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator's inquiry. When that government began, major ambitions were immediately put on the climate. This has been particularly evident by large financial contributions to the seminary. If we look at the change from 2017-226, which I will review in my case in the following discussion of financial programmes, the increase in environmental issues in the 17th sector is nearly 70% in the period. Much of it has gone into climate. Hv. A senator's testimony here suggests that making contributions reduces as the financial programme runs down, but they are considering that contributions that are considered to be indelibly reduced from 2024 onward, simply because decisions have not been made, the decisions do not go beyond what is acceptable to environmental automobiles. Of course, the government that follows the next election will need to decide whether it is necessary to continue in that capacity. If, in fact, there is still need to be a discount to promote the trends that we all want to see in energy exchange, I think the government, whatever it becomes, will make a wise decision. According to this, there is no decrease in the number of lawsuits. The amount of money for climate has increased dramatically. In fact, if we look at the direct contributions that have been made through the Environment Ministry, we are talking about an increase of 800 percent between 2017 and the period covered by the financial programme today. Of course, it's impressive results that I think all of us should look to with pride.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u13	Mr. President. I think we should avoid all the information mess when it comes to climate and environment. Sadly, arithmetic and statistics have been used to make things look better than they really are. will be made up for the next ten years in a financial program for the next five years so that it will look better. But there are good things in the list at the top. Minister and I don't doubt for a moment that he wants to do better. But better, if it's enough. In all likelihood, land transplants, forestry, and recovery of wetlands do not include the commitment of the Paris Convention. And only in terms of energy change: Additional improvements to climate during the financial period are also decreasing. We don't have enough ambition, Mr. President. We need to add a great deal of money. Increased contributions to climate and real measures to cope with disasters can provide countless opportunities, such as the highest level of opportunity. Minister knows, for growth and application for Iceland; transport, public transportation, energy exchange and so forth. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I will not lie on my team to help with that work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u14	A respectable president. It is not right for energy exchange to go down. As we look to the next ten years where the government is heading for a billion each year to be spent extra on climate, 3 billion of these 10 will go to the energy exchange. That's a clean addition to what's today. So it can't be said that it's a shrink. However, there are a variety of distributions over time, which are wise because we want to add emphasis to what is happening now in order to contribute the energy exchange of heavy transport, our next major project, and continued energy exchange, especially when it comes to car rent, which can have a multiple effect on society. What is being presented is primarily a thrilling increase to climate. Surely we can agree that this is for the better of an Icelandic community. I trust that when it comes to making decisions about the indiscretions that go down after 2024, they will be wise and will take into account the need for the invigoratives, whether they become people's cars or other energy exchanges. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u15	Mr. President. Just six days ago, less than a week ago, a volcanic eruption in the Rhine Peninsula began, and it is clear that there is much to think about in such a situation. Happily, it is a very small eruption, and it has not caused much noise, yet South Coast Road is closed, and Grinsavík has become a bit of a parking lot. Of course, when such a situation occurs, transportation in the area is confused, clear. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to plan, both for the eruption of this region, but also what has happened to a projection for long periods of time since the eruption began. So the light could run out later today, but it might even last a year. It may not necessarily be reasonable to expect that there is a complete framework for all possible outcomes at this point, but it would be good to know whether there has been some planning or policy or something in the Ministry of Transport that is involved, which has the concern of ensuring that transport is least advanced, especially in the area of Gravit, during the time of this situation, whether it is short or longer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u16	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It is obvious that mainly the work of the management system, such as the roadmaker in this case or counsel or others, has been turned toward some kind of response, to ensure safety as possible, to monitor the roads and effects of the earthquakes, and then to the possibility of a volcanic eruption that I take with the wind. A senator's position is at the most suitable place in which a potential threat to destabilization or threat can be made. As a result, all of this has been successful despite the need to close the South Coast road. Then there are plans to fix what needs to be fixed, where there are cracks or risks, where traffic safety decreases. This is primarily the case, and then perhaps we need to react and put excerpts in places where more cars could turn or park. Of course, there are no plans here and now, for it would be irresponsible only to start building up some tourist place with the relative change of priorities and to take money from other more important things to this project. However, if it proves to be so - called Dingos, and there will be a continuing fire cycle or lava flow out of these small crates at this time, then it must be considered to try to make this a safe area of some sort to look at. [[The president calls.]] There will be a lot of people and a desire to do so, and then there will have to be some improvement in the road system.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u17	President. Thank you very much. Minister for good answer. It is, as I say, difficult to plan fast. However, it was long known that local police were not properly equipped to care for all the exits and all the needed controls, and in the past, rescue teams have taken a little step into this. I know the police are at custody. Minister of Justice, but I would like to ask myself, " Will a minister ever act in any way to get some kind of long - term plan to build up a local police force so that he can do this, rather than always rely on the unselfish volunteer work of the rescue forces? ' The rescue forces have been offered to save people, but I don't think driving is the main field in the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u18	Mr. President. I just want to review it here for this reason that in the storm of 2019, there was something that wasn't good enough in our system, including tools and tools for the roadmaking, in cooperation with police and others, including to close the roads and such. We've already financed it, and it's all gone in such a way that such a reaction exists, and it was responded in a rapid and effective way. I agree that the rescue forces in the country are excellent, and people are willing to work hard. But I'll also admit that I thought it was a plan for people to go through the confusion around this eruption and expect people who had spent three weeks on a shift in Grinsavík would also be saving people who might have been a little more careful. [[The president calls.]] Happily, however, the rescue forces are ready for all good things in cooperation with the police, and so it will be.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u19	Mr. President. Yesterday's news on the virus and the government's response to the news may not have been just what we were hoping for, i.e. the virus coming up. The measures taken, the preventative measures, are understandable, and have no comment. But it is the economic effect that you are considering, and it was not clear yesterday that special action was announced on the economic side for this reason. We're going back into the closing season, and we know that a lot of companies are going to get hurt at this. It is also true that we were hoping that the tourism industry would be very effective during the summer, and economic forecasts are going very well. As a result of this year's new economic forecast, there are some 700,000 tourists. The inflation is not working well, and unemployment is very high. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister may not need to make any reexamination, and then he will respond, whether we need to face it, although we hope it will not be this way, but the chances that the tourists will always be more and more, that they will not come to the country on a much lower scale than any other ground would expect.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u20	A respectable president. First, regarding the measures presented yesterday, that our experience is to intervene early, when there is evidence of transmission into the community outside the ranges, will have the greatest results, both in protecting people's life and health, and as much as in economic context, that it is better to do so, despite the difficulties of the end and the mass boundaries, than to be stuck with the more extensive measures later on. Regarding specific measures to cope with the latest disease prevention measures, it is important to remember that we have a lock for use throughout May and that we will extend them according to the proposal made before the council. Similarly, we still support the strength of resistance, and it is a plan that we too plan to extend. They're a long way into the summer according to a current rule of action. Other measures are still active, such as the pricing pay, the postponing of tax pay, and we now declare that the pay days coming in summer will be revised and people will be able to distribute them for up to two more years. And so you could continue to count. So there is nothing special about happening right now because of the latest measures required for additional action. For a number of tourists, which I can better fit in later, I simply feel that there is still a lot of uncertainty and that it will not be fulfilled until we see better in the country about vaccinations, both at home and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u21	President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. What I might be fishing for, and what I asked is if we don't have to start preparing for the worst stage in the world. I'm worried that we're not prepared. Now we see the situation in the countries we trust in is very uncertain. Britain is considering a national travel ban. Your age is on its way to Europe. I think it is, especially because the British species is spreading very much, which is much more contagious, that some people's hopes for herd resistance are completely unrealistic. That's why I want to ask again: Is the government preparing for, or is it preparing for the tourist side that we've all hoped for, indeed, simply not coming, and even going to be no tourist head? What is the government preparing in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u22	A respectable president. I can't answer this differently, so we aim for the best information at any given time, and we've shown it so far that we're flexible. When dealing with a pandemic like this, it's like climbing a mountain. It's a very high mountain. We didn't know how high it was when we started and in such a expedition, you sometimes have to take a break and go shopping, and now we're finally seeing the peak. The distribution of vaccines is becoming complete. In Britain, since that was mentioned, it has been successful in vaccinating up to one million people in a 24 - hour period. Our plans are to assume that today, in the middle of the year, all major people of the country will have their vaccinations, from adults. So we are now entering a quarter of a year - long period, which is like the final layer to the top of the mountain, which is supposed to fill us with optimism. We're not supposed to talk like we're going backwards. [[The president calls.]] We are reaching our destination for the next quarter, with all the most important things. And then I believe that there will be another reality in the latter part of the year.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u23	Today, there will be a discussion of some of the issues that will be held by the Prime Ministers initiating the discussion and giving an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u24	Mr. President. As we have seen, both costs and policies in this financial program are largely consistent with those adopted by the General of the Council a few months ago, in December. I want to be like them to give special attention to the heavy emphasis the government has placed on increased support for innovation, research, and evolution. It's been kind of incredible to hear the prelude to the reorganization of the emerging environment overshadowing this emphasis, for it certainly does not. The fact is, contributions to innovation, research, and knowledge have increased more than proportionately by all categories during the period of activity of this government, or by more than 70%. The new world has been a special target for the pandemic, and the new birth is one of the largest and most dramatic responses in the face of a major economic crisis. To support the intelligence, creation, and initiative of the pioneers with greater force than ever before is one of the most important things that will lay the foundation for the economy and the nation's future success. It is our vision, and it is our policy, and it is expressed in a very decisive way in the actions of the government and this financial program. To illustrate, this year's contributions to technology increase by 1.3 billion a year. It has never had as much money in history as this increase will stay in the next year on this financial program. A new Lóa fund of $100 million for the country's settlement is being implemented, but over a third of its applications were received during the days in this new fund, showing the need to answer in exactly what is needed. He gets back 100 million next year according to financial plan. This will occur in the coming years of 8.3 billion for Koria, sceptre and innovation, but Kía will strengthen and promote the innovation environment in the interests of investments in Icelandic indicator funds, which will then invest in the growth of pioneers. This decisive action in the present situation is crucial, but I would like, despite these examples, also restate what I have said before, that in general it is not my primary goal at all to increase my government spending as much as possible as possible as possible in the longest future. Mr. President. A travel service company is well - known to be faced with emergency problems that the government has met by both general and specific measures. Expenditures for them appear largely elsewhere in this budget than under the matter itself, but tourism has, of course, enjoyed a large part of the general support measures proposed by the government and by the General Assembly. For Covid, we had a future vision and guided by the tourism services where sustainability and profit play a key role rather than the number of tourists, as well as the developing of balanced tourism as a control tool for the article. These tools will be useful in building this article, and despite the shocks of the Covid epidemic, the policy frame will be even more relevant. We have continued to believe that the tourism will take on a strong grip as soon as the situation allows and to support that application, we, who are known, have put considerable money aside from an international market project that is certainly begun but still have much to do, much of it. An additional amount of travel introduced in the last financial programme is already beginning to be made up of additional donations for the tourism sector as well as a new project on the definition of model destinations, which will be better introduced in the near future. Of course, energy has the highest energy policy and operation programme for Iceland. The energy policy is carried out in a transnational partnership introduced last year, but I want to draw special attention to the change from the last financial program that energy exchange contributions are up by less than 2 billion dollars. the details of the period, of which approximately Half a billion a year for the next three years. This greatly supports our objective that Iceland will remain a source of energy exchange and will support our ambitious aim to become independent of fossil fuels, a great opportunity for us, economic and environmentally. In this structure and that as a country in this area, we have an enormous opportunity to build up jobs, to make money money money, to create new and valuable jobs, and that we are simply offering interesting options to build up on such projects, and we certainly have much to offer ourselves. To illustrate, at the end of the last year, it was agreed that the full range of electricity across the country would be ensured by the next fall. At that time, there will be effort in geostringing and inculturation that allows us to complete certain goals there in five years instead of 15 years, and reduce the interference in the electrical distribution system by 85%. Mr. President. These are in very short terms the lines that are broad in regard to the classes of speech that I hear. But I'm glad that I have an opportunity to have a conversation with members of the council about a few things below.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u25	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for her review of her litigation. A financial program contains an important part that is, like, beyond time and space. This chapter provides a guide for public activity. That's where the President's permission says: ▪ In recent decades, increasing effectiveness and transparency in public activities has been increasing. Rather, it was important for the public to receive the expected service. Such a approach is often attributed to a successful budget and is based on the basis of the fact that making decisions on individual resources provides information on the progress of governments and the results of previous budgets. Go on, with President's permission: This is the case with a legal law on public finances. [...] Each year, a special annual report shall also be published to each minister where the results and benefits of the provision of funds are considered. It goes on to say that although one meter cannot be provided to determine whether success can be done successfully and still explain the effectiveness of the results, it still provides a good indication of how efficient the function is and the quality of the service is performed. Now I'm asking the highest. As a minister of innovations, what scale does it consider to be a failure to assess more money recently for innovation? And also, what scale does it provide for the evaluation of success in the decision to put down the Newborn Center of Iceland? However, this decision has been asked in a number of equally different ways, as can be seen from many comments on her bill on this subject and has also been presented in the case of many visitors at meetings. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u26	Mr. President. Of course, there are a lot of things that play here together. Although I make a big deal of it that government policy needs to be clear and important, and decisions made on that basis, of course, it is also that the force in the environment and the powerful individuals who jump off with innovation companies, new companies, take big steps, attend capitals, etc. - Not all governments are responsible, but our mission is to keep the environment as clear and efficient as possible. We watch, for example. in many new funds. We felt an added force in planning to set up a Kristian investment fund to support the source of index funds, which then invests in individual companies. We find it with plans to put NMI in the form that this institution is, for the region itself to have a clear view of what they want to stand for, where they want to move forward. It has simply produced remarkable results. They've run. There have been some amazing ideas that now appear in an amazing number of applications for the motivational power of Lóa, who are, I just admit it, a lot more than I expected. It shows both the growth and the power but also the need for areas to move forward on their own terms. The reimbursement of research and development costs is a general procedure for employment, but the importance of growth. We see that almost all of these innovation companies are recruiting almost every month. Plans for Iceland's New Creation Centre depend on us creating a policy with a particular guide and a focus and, of course, we're moving some of the projects that used to be at NMI's place in a different part of the management system where they live better. To establish a more technical approach is a step that we've been discussing for a very long time, and I believe that will result in great success. We are so confident that there is a huge increase in support of innovation, and we find and see so many standards of this amazingly high power in the modern world of Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u27	Mr. President. This time I'm pointing my case to the highest level. Minister for travel. It has been said that the aim of tourism should be to maximise the profit of each tourist while leaving what is left of the resource, as it is said. Here we are not talking about the excessive mass giants, so to speak, with the resulting challenge of tourist resistance. Which leads to the highest. A minister to achieve this goal, if underlied on her part what was previously described? What does she think is the role of the government in this subject, in a industry that is self-principled and motivated by a private campaign in the marketing economy? Counts Ministers, e.g. that government procedures to increase quality and security requirements for tourism, such as requiring that Icelandic guides are on the road, at least in certain types of trips that might be determined in consultation with Iceland's Guideline Association, would there be a loss of success in this subject? Another procedure would be that only those who had been employed as guides allowed on the basis of approved study.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u28	Mr. President. I would say that governments have a clear role here and the decisions made are involved. Therefore, it is important to have this clear policy frame and order of action matter and decision-making, how we put the priorities and bones of money in the structure and in the market. In order to increase the number of sails, a tourist's budget is important, but we also have certain goals. We watch the total consumption of international and domestic tourists, such as whales. A senator came in. We watch the annual increase in expenses of any foreign tourist. We watch a number of tourists in our home, as well as the percentage of inns in hotels outside the country's rush hour. The facility is then designed to promote greater quality, and we use many other tools to do so. We have destination agencies, destination strategies that are then out in the areas to set up their own specific positions, how their destination will be, and try to stay in touch with the travel fund, and take into account the financial programmes of rural society in order to set priorities for building up money in places that are consistent with their destination plans and those areas themselves want to set up. And then we have an Iceland lab with analysis and policy and how we're considering this market budget. I can totally agree with that. A senator's demand for guides and a company to hire a particular kind of guide to him, especially on heavier trips where security is needed, is a way of improving quality. But to inform them. I have not changed my mind about the predetermined demands of who can be guide. But I find it quite different to expect them and their companies on certain trips according to their kinds. [[The president calls.]] It is the work we are working with just the guides and is clearly a control device to improve quality.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u29	Mr. President. There are countless interesting cases to discuss here at the highest level. Minister. But under the minister, there are lawsuits that are of special importance in our time. Last night, I took notice of that last night at a vote on a top bill. Minister for official support for innovation, claiming that contributions for innovation were being made significantly. But, Mr. President, the fact is that although this year has truly been added temporarily and the next year, it is immediately combined to a total of 10 billion donations for innovation from 2022 mouse. Sadly, this temporary increase, as wonderful as it is, has not come to be. Another thing I'd like to mention in this context, Mr. President, is the fact that at the same time the government has been raising funding for competitive funds primarily, Iceland has fallen to the Global Innovation Index list at the time of 20153/42020, the same time as steady economic growth has been in this country. This has been brought together in support of innovation, research and development in colleges and public institutions of great concern, as has been shown by research that by raising their own money to university and by developing public institutions, the State encourages further growth in the private sector. At this time, a great deal of emphasis is being placed on the use of innovations that led out of the crisis that we face and the realization that we need to do much more and strengthen further measures to support innovations and to promote the institutions of the government that carry out technical research, the services of employment, and the use of many activities. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers whether she is really not concerned about the situation as it is in the government financial programme and if there was no reason to give more. Similarly, because the minister mentioned Lóa: Is funding just secure next year, not on?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u30	Mr. President. The big change is certainly the 35% share we increased from 25% and is temporary. Whether we make that temporary decision should be taken into consideration. It means that your joint has gone up to a high level of payment but it also means that there's a lot of growth in research and development in Iceland. We're working on it, and I've stressed that this project is being completed so that we're absolutely certain that it's only a real research and development project that's being reimbursed. This should be clear because it is a great deal of indignity and clear goals, and we need to be absolutely sure that such a course is in harmony with that purpose. The results of that work will be before we are faced with a decision whether to extend this temporary situation. We expect Lóa not just to be this year and the next. It took 700 million people to the New Creation Center and a part of that work to account for 100 million in Lou so that we make sure that 100 million go out into the regions each year, in accordance with the concentrations coming in so that the areas themselves may be somewhat aware of where they want to move ahead and what works in each area. I can't say that I have major concerns about the status of innovation here in the country or in the expansive development or the support of the public to the innovation environment, despite the changes. A senator will do so if no other decision is made. All we can find is how much to do and how much to develop. The wealth is increasing, new Icelandic funds, extracurricular funds coming into the environment here. A lot of employees are being hired. We're getting closer. Because of the Covid epidemic, we're getting many of our most outstanding people back to our country, and it's also, so you look at the bright side, very great opportunity. I'm not worried about that, and I believe the environment is developing into a permanent and long future here in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u31	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I want to continue with this only because in the past few weeks a minister has discussed a new cluster policy, and so have we discussed it before at the Assembly Hall. Now that there is a financial programme, I'd like to ask the minister what the situation is in the introduction of the cluster policy. Will a minister assume that funding for the implementation of policy policies, which is good, could spread a certain way out of the current position? Of course, for that to happen, the State has to take decisive steps toward the induction of projects, although it is certainly the heat and weight on the shoulders of those who choose to work as a team. I think it's important for the Minister to answer this clearly. Mr. President. In this context, I cannot fail to ask the highest question. Whether it considers the basis for this financial policy to be practical, a financial strategy now allows for 600,000 tourists to arrive this year and a total of 1.3 million tourists at the next one. Does a minister think that these figures are practical, perhaps least in view of what happened yesterday? It's a question of whether we can improve the situation. While we can improve the situation in this country and if the government decides to follow the changing measures on the border, the situation remains to be changed, in many other lands, a great limit for freedom of movement is being made, as it is announced that citizens will simply be fined for international travel unless strictly necessary. Therefore, Mr. President, do I believe Ministers find it realistic that the situation will be so good this summer that there will be a total of 600,000 tourists for the remainder of the year and almost twice as many people next? If not, then, is this schedule not the basis for smiling?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u32	Mr. President. With regard to cluster policy, it's brand-new. We have not set aside money to introduce it, but this, of course, is always a priority. We have our subject field, which calls for priorities in the field. In fact, I see a significant additive effect in the catalysts of Lóa and part of what is suggested in a cluster policy, especially in regional clustering, that is an instrument. And you can see that there are many applications, in fact, to start or to get on with regional clustering. This requires priorities in the field of paint, and we are fully involved in both the induction and the action needed to advance and achieve the desired results in the cluster policy. You know, with the tourism and 700,000 tourists, you've basically done your homework. The budget assumes that plans are made and that there are some underlying factors. But then, this virus is really the only control. I just don't have the nerve to tell if it's practical or not that we're seeing 700,000 tourists. If I had to answer today, the answer would be that I thought it was more unlikely than the other. If I had been asked a few days ago, I would have said: " Well, it's working so well to have a vaccination around us that it's quite practical. We've taken away the market money, the campaign's ready, and the vaccination's going well elsewhere. If she's doing well here in the middle of the year it should play well together. So, things just change. The underlying criteria are there as well as those that may be moved toward something, but vaccines and vaccination are actually the issue of how fast people are going to be received.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u33	Mr. President. Now we have this financial program, so to speak. It's kind of a semi-moving document. It can't be said that this is a plan. However, the lack of goals is not better when it is associated with the decisions made in innovations during the present ideal period and in an effort to look ahead to the future. I wondered, in view of the highest. A minister says that everything is in a great rise in innovations, the standard for greater success. I'm waiting for the highest. Minister to mention one because I don't know anyone. I heard why. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Peace of Elíasdóttir's daughter spoke of a so - called Global Innovation Index or an international innovation Index, which, according to her report, was in Iceland's 11th seat in 2017, at the beginning of this terms, which goes out of this terms period twice the bottom of the list. If we look at where we score high, it's in three categories. It is in poor business skills, which depend on the economy. It's in the creation form, which just means that the Icelanders won't be told to stop being creative, and then there's the third reason why I don't know better than to the top. Minister is about to slaughter. We challenged submoderate marketing profits, human research, technology, and infrastructure, all of which we could have worked very hard to build up in the current season rather than tear down. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: In what way is it a fine success in innovation to fall down almost half and at the same time destroy one of the few that we are doing well without adding anything else?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u34	Mr. President. Of course, it is unbelievable to listen to what is said. A senator speaks of a minister who is about to slaughter the establishment environment of innovation. It's just hard to have a proper conversation in that context. Rethinking and re-creating one institution in Iceland capable of about 700 million. K. to fund and then to treat with care - the innovation environment stands and doesn't fall by it. Second, we would not be making these changes unless we believe it, based on our work, that we are benefiting the innovation environment. After a lot of work, we do it. Technology centres will change the environment here. The growth of innovation in the country will change the new-born environment for the whole country. As a result of increasing financial development, new ideas are produced in far more valuable and new companies. The infrastructure fund is to strengthen specific equipment so that the infrastructure is more powerful here in Iceland. If we are dealing with Ranni, the extra funds are also built in. The increase in research and development costs, both roof and percentages, is also relevant. The growing number of workers in the sector, which, of course, is very wide and wide, is a concern, of course, that we look at. Corporate is a real wood for promoting a more mature and powerful financing environment, which is exactly what the companies need, and the people and teams that someone needs to bet on and staked into. We're putting billions into it in the next few years, to do exactly that. Of course, it's important that we are looking to a standard, but then we also need to be sure that we're mapling and identifying and having the relevant information called, and I think that the operating system there also needs to be better at that job.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u35	Mr. President. Now it's got the highest. A minister has a perfect period to map out what may be better for innovations, and I don't quite understand that answer. First, it is not as if change, even replacement, cannot be planned, and similar in some organized way. But when the Agency's demolition is reported and cut down systematically before it is passed and said it's all done in the name of building up, I don't understand the structure involved. The following is what I studied in my first talk, that we have fallen 50 percent on this international innovation scale. These new structures that have been announced have not proved themselves. It may well work. I believe it when I see it. The fact that more people are working in innovation today may be primarily evidence of the conditions we live in. When economic trauma strikes, people simply go into innovation to save themselves. However, this is not necessarily a measure of improvement in the overall picture. They need some standards, e.g. increased export costs, increased privateaccess, or similar, have not yet been applied. Of course, it's great that more people have just got a new job, I don't criticize it. But I don't see how it is in any way something that the government has been involved in.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u36	Mr. President. What have I been up to for the past few years? We're starting a business that's taken a lot of time and we've done well, that's what I'm very proud of. Lóa is also new and will promote the innovation environment. Increase in reimbursement for research and development, change of the source environment. A fortune, a technical square has been created. We've made eight contracts, and more people are on their way to building digital carpenters all over the country. We'll see that there's an enormous amount of money coming from out here to the country that shows that people are willing to bet on Icelandic intelligence and these companies. The status of the innovationindex depends on, including of other aspects of the economy. In this way you will need to take your position in advance. There are many standards of growth in innovation, including increase the investment of foreign and international people, so it's good. The reduction in Global Innovation Index is amongst those observed in the Global Innovation Index. because the economy grew very much in recent years, including due to the increased number of tourists. It needs to be viewed in the context of the economy. The measures we are now working on are to be returned to an improved environment in the years to come. If I was a politician who wouldn't make any changes unless I got the compliment at the same time I tried it, I wouldn't be suggesting it. But many of the things we've been working on for the past few years, and now we're initiating it, and it's going to bloom, and people will see how well they've been doing and the environment's improved. Well, I guess someone else will be on the bridge at the Management Board, but I believe in what we're doing. We allow ourselves to look for a longer time because we are going to build a new environment in Iceland for a long time as a real economy, a real way to make sure that people want to live here, that our most sought-after people see their best interests in setting up their own business here, and we are competitive to the countries around us, and we have an environment that will help us solve all the challenges we face and prepare us for the most uncertainty of the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u37	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a Senate resolution on financial plans for the 2022 mouse. We're going through one of the deepest economic crisiss in the last 100 years, but the current financial agenda is a clear policy forward. I hope we're dealing with this pandemic with immunizations that we'll see to it that ends in the middle of the summer. Governments have been used to deal with the economic consequences of the epidemic by a number of and varied measures; the part-time improvement, income loss, maintenance, income-related unemployment, and so forth. These actions have proved their worth in recent years and have ceased to be hit. Investment projects have been new in building up the infrastructure in an effective way. Today, we have a peak of recent roads to protect and create jobs. It was also particularly involved in investments in the distribution and transport pathways of electricity, and particularly in the development of the storm in December 2019. Orcs'pay came from the West and the state was about 400 million. K. every year. The need for these partners is high for new investments and maintenance, and this is an important factor in increasing the safety and income of partners permanently. A respectable president. In this relationship, it would be good to hear from the highest level. Tourism, industrial and innovation ministers, whether or not they think they will need extra investments over the next few years to continue the development of the electrical distribution system.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u38	Mr. President. This structure is affected by the initiative for infallibility but also by the geostringization process, which speeds up the effectiveness of Endocrine Vestjörður plans, e.g. a circle connection of the West We have weathered in the first place at the Parliament's resolution of government policy on the building of the power system, and this has greatly helped to speed up the structure that is certainly needed for the West. Of course, that's why the West are first; that's because they haven't been there yet or not enough. Both are difficult situations, and there are areas that are far behind other areas of the country. You can't help it. That's what matters here. There are large investments on the budget, both of the Power Company and the Landsnet. Of course, the hosts are under obligation to work within the boundaries of which they live. We have a quick triple charge to speed up the country from 15 years to five years, and we were able to work at a considerable speed after a storm at the end of 2019 and return to important projects in the plan. We've done what we can to support it, so there's certainly big investments in a system plan and a landline development and cleaning up that matters for the West as well as for others. But more work is being done there than is done in many other parts of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u39	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for answers, and I intend to stay in a similar direction. In a financial program, it is said that as the world opens up and allows room for growth, jobs can be used when growth has not occurred in voids. The last financial program adopted by the General of December reflected the need to give more intensive support to the economy than have previously been seen. A better outcome for the next year will, hopefully, slow down, than a new national interest forecast will give rise to some optimism. The predictions show that the economy's rapid recovery returns to the improved supply of the State Fund from what was thought to be earlier in the year. The main challenge ahead is to create jobs. Unemployment is a concern, and there is a high risk of permanent unemployment. Business development in most parts of the country suffers from the insecurity of electricity in these areas. Unstable electricity is less competitive with regard to job structure and habitat. Iceland's energy policy to the year 2050 stresses the sustainable energy future. Therefore, secure supply and solid infrastructure should be sought. The future we see in energy policy is closer than we know. The financial plan says, under the title of Public Investor, increases the production capacity, with the permission of the president: ▪ As discussed in the above box, the multiplicity effects of investment spending are more and more long - term than other market costs in current economic conditions and it is anticipated that countries will continue to lose weight. So from the beginning of the epidemic, it has been clear to the government's objective to contribute an investment to soften the pace, both to counteract a recession in private investment and to increase in public investment. A respectable president. Finally, I'd like to ask the highest. Tourism, industrial and innovation ministers, whether they do not consider it necessary to promote the availability of electricity in the country and particularly to complete the conversion of the electrical energy system in Western and North-eastern countries to ensure competitiveness and structure of both jobs and habitats. When and how to do the highest. A minister sees that this goal will be met?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u40	Mr. President. I can't name a date on it, but the campaign I mentioned earlier, both in the form of triune and geologicalisation, will hasten the development of Orcsinus Vestafær, which is subject to the swirling process. As I mentioned earlier about the West in general, they are in the leading priority at a church resolution approved by the Council and the Landsnet work by it. However, the whole cycle turns more towards the Landsnet, and we may not make decisions here that directly affect it, but certainly in an indirect way, such as the decision to speed up triune and speed up geographing, and then, of course, other rules can do so. But it's inside the Landsnet System Plan and the project there. Exactly when that happens, I don't dare tell you. The decision we've made, with the interpretation that the West are in first place, and the aim of us to make a contact with the Weststrest will help with the decision both of them in the hands of Energy Vestjörður, in the regular work there, and in the Landsnet and in the System. System plans will, of course, go to the Power Institute for approval. So this goes forward and the sooner it happens, the better. I can say with what. A senator on both the provisional security and the opportunity to advance and bring up new investments and to build up on the foundation I know much is discussed. Electric energy, both delivery and the presence of it, is certainly part of the infrastructure that needs to be present to allow areas to move forward on their own terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u41	Mr. President. There's no question that innovation, technology, and science are extremely important to our future, and I know that we are the highest. A minister wholeheartedly agrees. First, I want to say that there has been a lot of good in this class in recent years, that it should be acknowledged and commended. What I'm worried about is that we lack endurance and really long - term thinking on these matters. That's what I've said and I've had a place to say. Minister on that. Therefore, it cannot be denied that in the current schedule, as it is set, there is another possibility that money will be reduced to this category. It's not good because it's so important to have the experience. I agree with the highest. Ministers that there is great growth now, and why? Could this be because these injections have been injected? What happens if it is taken away? Since it is not yet proved that the injection is important, we should extend the good work that has been done, for example. increase in roof and proportion of reimbursement for research and development? It's hardly gonna take long to find out if it's working. Another thing we've suggested in Reunion is to give the pension fund a permanent warrant to invest in so - called index funds, which I think is also of enormous importance. [[The president calls.]] The important thing is that humans have long - term vision, that is what everyone is calling on.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u42	Mr. President. I think that part of the growth we feel and look forward to, and so many of the examples, are here because of the increased support we made at the council, that it has this effect. People are taking bigger steps. This requires that research and development be accelerated. There are other people involved. I am convinced that this is going to work. Of course, our objective is that we are competitive with other areas, and we are simply setting ourselves up in this values chain, where we think we may be really strong. That's clearly in research and development. This decision is temporarily made, and then it remains to answer whether it should be extended, and it needs to be established in a financial program. This financial plan is virtually entirely unchanged from the budget program published in December, and once we've gone to elections and a new government is created, it is actually necessary to build a new budget of financial policy. With regard to the fossil record of pension funds for investing in index funds, it is my personal opinion that it should be long-term and should be permanent. I agree with that, and we feel it, and we hear it from the pension fund that it disturbs that it's temporary. But these are steps sometimes when you're in the system and you're trying to change them. The system itself is going through certain changes in attitudes toward innovation, how it surrounds rotten vessels, and the pension funds as well. Some of them, at least some of them, have been more afraid of these investments than others, and you realize that things are changing too. This is as far as we can go by having it temporarily, and I'm sure there's some period of testing. But I believe that there would be improvements in the fact that the warrant would be permanent.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u43	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, and rejoice that we agree on this. Actually, I don't quite agree with her that it's not right to put this into a financial plan right now, I'll at least... If her problem is that she does not have the support, help her. But I just want to step aside, and it's our tourist sector that has a huge problem and doesn't have to talk about it to many people. Yesterday's seasons do not produce a special cheer or optimism, unfortunately, although, we all hope that it will come true. We compared it to walking a mountain and seeing the top, but it seems to me that it's just passing through a cloud so we might have lost sight of it. I wanted to ask the highest. Minister how to react, if there's any plans. Last year, it was fine to stimulate a very domestic tourism, and let's just hope that we ourselves will be able to travel in the summer and in the autumn. That's why I'd like to ask if it's the highest. A minister has considered a proposal to renew the so-called travel, to raise it considerably and expand the range of values to more and more age groups. It seems to me alone that there is a need for some stimulus in this regard and the sooner the decision is made, the better. This raises hopes again, and it can be tried to organize the summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u44	Mr. President. I will, hopefully right after the weekend, put forth this for granted, extending the time of travel, which is normal for everything. We have not yet paid out but just over half of the amount of money we anticipated during our trip, and I have said that I am quite open to the fact that it will be extended because we have some experience in the last summer. But there is also a need to consider how we bring it into play with regard to technology, software, and programming, which we used when making our travel. But it shouldn't be too much of a case, and I think it's very relevant to consider it a clean, completed Covid operation to repeat the game. The bill that's coming here is just an extension of what has already been decided. However, it can also be assumed that not everyone will use the gift. We have already assumed 1.5 billion that do not go out. It is possible, then, to consider how we put them into the economy in the most reasonable way because this is, of course, a major economic operation. I can agree with that, too. A senator says this mountain tunnel is getting tired, but we don't go back now. There's a fog there or a cloud at the top of the mountain, and we still don't know when we're gonna make it. While struggling with it, we simply need to keep our mind open and think: " How can we help to take steps, big and small, to increase activity, to encourage people to go around and help their companies in a positive way? The travel was very successful, and she was well received, and it had an effect. It also had a positive effect on the activities of the companies, which began to introduce themselves in a different way to Icelanders and to offer an offer, etc. I'm obviously open to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u45	A respectable president. We're here to discuss financial policy to 2026. V.E.G. During the election period, a minister has organized organizational changes in its institutions. These changes are characterised by the transfer of projects between isolates and downs and the reduction of institutions. It's time to shut down the Second Creation Center. Does Ministers believe that these are measures that are useful to the world of unemployment, to put down highly expert organizations, institutions that have undergone needed research in recent decades? I recall the damage to home earlier in the winter when construction experts said that the quality testing of windows was necessary for special weather conditions here does not ensure that the windows and wind are being tolerated. In view of the seeming leakage and gathering of molds by every other house in the country, does this mean that further research is needed in this area? We know exactly what happened when the construction of buildings was brought into the hands of a private member. The public frees themselves all the responsibility for the neglect of private members of surveillance, and the buyers repeatedly find themselves in trouble when damage occurs. Then there are the laws that enable the construction industry to escape financial responsibility by means of social security. This policy of Independence Party, to reduce public surveillance and public research, has caused considerable damage to society. Is it really advisable to continue this nonsense? Is it not rather necessary to turn the course around, build up knowledge, promote construction research, establish a general building control, prevent consumers from sitting down with ruined houses and huge expenses?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u46	Mr. President. Just to answer that question, I think it is just the role of the politicians and the executives to be much more efficient than we are in going over the jobs we usually do every once in what we put our money on, whether the priorities are right, whether the projects we've started with 20 years ago, have to be done by the state, or take over just to reassign money, but not always ask for new funds for all the created things and shovels to the foundation that we're on and working people in this country need to pay for. We are making sure that needed research continues. We are doing just that. A senator went over here. We're off to start some of the tests that should be professional, were not professional, but will have these changes. We're promoting both construction research and construction tests. The monitoring will be carried out by a Housekeeping and Human Resource Institute and they are working hard to increase this monitoring. Of course, these things need to be okay. These changes in the founding system and the management system are also part of our uniting energy and benefiting from the existing classes of languages and the lawsuits involved. It is often a delight and is able to add to human resources and projects and to the like. It has simply been published that it will increase the quality of the construction industry and put this trade into its center, and it is simply very important. Both of us are making sure that needed research continues and that we are developing research in this field. We're doing some tests that weren't professional at the Second Creation Center in a professional process that's a great deal of quality and really important. There are international requirements that this is professional, and that is what we are doing with this project.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u47	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers for the answers, and I sincerely hope that all of this will work, and especially with the fact that the general public is better off building and studying molds, so we don't have to worry about that far into the future. But the highest. A minister also has another group that has access to tourist locations. We've been through this before. Unfortunately, the bioavailability is not good enough at all. Sad to say, when trying to do well in tourist areas, the availability of the disabled often goes forgotten, e.g. is stepped up to the salerator, even to the Service Centers. It is forgotten to have a bioavailability in such a way that those who are in wheelchairs or others who have difficulty walking can. Is that the ultimate prospect? Ministers to ensure that the availability of the disabled will not be forgotten over the years? And then there's a trip: Is it not possible to give more to those who have been trapped by Covid for a long time, have underlying diseases, are disabled, are desperate, are motorists; have higher travel supplies for these individuals? They have less resources and have less chance of traveling within the country. Is it not a good idea to give them a chance to spit in their hands and to give them a proper amount so that they can really take advantage of their trip within the country to visit tourist locations, at least where bioavailability is restored?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u48	Mr. President. First of all, questions about tourism funds and access to all causes. A senator comes in on a regular basis - I thank him for it and just so he knows it makes a difference, the drop breaks the stone. We're looking at it at the Ministry, so I'll report it here first. A senator asks, to use money that is present in the European Commission budget for the tourist attractions for the Covid arrangements, and to find out what we can do to work on things that should be relatively easy to fix. I believe that funding would be well worth it. I also think it might be an opportunity to get up and possibly change our outlook on the future; get into action, show how you can do that, it could also create a discussion so that more people put on those glasses that you wear. A senator is always involved in the construction of destinations, that there is a access for all. Of course, we can't be doing and fixing these things afterwards. Rather, we need to do things in order to make sure. We're gonna go for a second. A senator has often discussed that it does not mean that there is access to all that can be done everywhere but that everyone can enjoy nature and that everyone can enjoy being put on public funds to build up the destination for people, to consider that it is available for everyone. This is what we're looking at at at the Ministry, and I hope this will happen. I'm pretty sure that's what it is. A senator will be pleased if we succeed in putting this through.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u49	V.E.G. President. By approval of the last three financial agendas, the General Assembly has determined a significant injection for projects on topic areas 17, i.e. The environment. The main focus is on the activities of the climate and the carbon share of the country before 2040, the actions for the protection of the Icelandic species for future generations, the protection of nature, the promotion of the cycle economy and the efforts of irrigation. State funds to the topic area, by the budget of 2021, are about 21.4 billion. and estimates that there will be 21.8 billion in 2026 or about 6.7% increase compared to the price of 2021. On the other hand, if changes are observed since 2017, the contribution of the State Fund to the topic field has increased by 68.4% to 2026. The budget assumes 1 billion dollars. increase annual contribution to climate for the next ten years or until 2031. There is increased contributions to action based on government action plans on climate change. These increased donations are divided between four topics of activity, according to the homework of projects, i.e. Transport and communications, agriculture, energy and then environmental. Climate sources have more than tripled between 2017 and 2021 of names. The biggest increase is due to a direct projection to climate, which has increased eightfold over the period, from 227 billion. K. In 2017, 1.9 billion dollars. in 2021. In the years that follow, direct contributions to climate continue to increase. It should be noted that by the year 2022, total years of donations for climate change will be over 13 billion. A climate operation program is the principal tool of the government in fighting the climate problem. The added financial support for climate is aimed at speeding energy exchanges in transport and related activities, promoting innovation and increasing carbon binding with greater capacity of healing, recovery of ecosystems, forestry, and so forth. Natural protection is another large group of subjects in the 17th sector. The primary objective there is to ensure the protection of natural resources and sustainable future use of the land, including with development of infrastructure and agriculture, which is based on scientific knowledge, education, information sharing and cooperation with stakeholders. Budgets will be spent on a wide range of projects for the protection of nature and sustainable innovations, such as the continuing development of infrastructure across the country. Some 8 billion are involved in this project over the next five years, including funding to follow government plans for the establishment of a highland park of less than 4.2 billion dollars. will be spent, especially in the years 20226, in the construction of infrastructure and operations. I'd also like to draw attention to the fact that during this terms, we have completed funding and have performed three guest rooms in our national parks on Hellissandi, a local gang, and a Moy Lake band. Preservations were increased by paying off the latest financial programme, while during the period 2022 mouse/026, some 13.4 billion are expected. Looking forward to the seminary so that in 2030 the building of the superabundant waters for urban areas will be completed. The function of the cycle system involves responsible production and consumption, reducing waste management by preventing waste production and helping improve its treatment by recycling and recycling. This year it's 500 billion. K. used for the economy, including will attack food waste, plastic pollution and waste during textil, but during a financial period, 1.8 billion will flow to the expansion of the circuit economy. There's a call on the government's policy declaration to get into the hold. This financial program assumes 2.4 billion dollars. in the form of mutual support for rural society to improve the quality of the irrigation system, but with a billion already spent on this initiative. The project is part of the government's investment campaign and is expected to be able to apply for funding in order to meet part of the cost of irrigation projects up to 2030 laws. V.E.G. President. Again, I welcome the attention and coverage of environmental and climate issues in general discussions during the past few years. The increase in budgetary contributions from the state funds during the time of this government's work is very good at this. And it shows a clear political view and an emphasis on the importance and importance of money.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u50	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for his opening speech here. There are no questions about the importance of being guided by clear goals, especially by government spending. It also matters that success is measurable. My question is about measurable results, both after the operation is over and also equal, that the results can be measured and measured. In fact, the plan says that government activities should be guided by good results. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ In recent decades, increasing effectiveness and transparency in public activities has been increasing. [...] Such a approach is often attributed to a successful budget and is based on the basis of the fact that when making decisions on individual resources, there is information about the success of governments and the results of previous budgets. [...] Even so, problems and clarifies results can give us good evidence of the effectiveness of our activity and the quality of our ministry. This makes it important to the government's officials to meet the growing demand for transparency in public activity. It is important that the citizens involved in the cost of public activity with their taxes can be confident that public funds will be used most effectively and that information on use is available. You're not gonna have to argue with this, Mr. President. The rising environmental costs, especially for climate, are my subject in this question. It's time to go to the top. Minister well over the increase, especially this latter class. I'm going to ask him, "What's your success? How is success measured in terms of money set up in this lawsuit? And also at the end of the carbon cost of fuel that has been rising over the past few years: Has the success of its stress been measured? [[The president calls.]] And how? What has been the result of its strain and increase?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u51	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the deposit. Hv. A senator introduces a very important point that focuses on efficient and efficient budgeting. I think that the development of this five - year plan of public financial law has been very effective in recent years, both in creating for the public and also for the public, in order to become better aware of the priorities that exist at any given time. The priorities that this government has had include: to increase the focus on the environment, climate, waste, floodwater, irrigation, climate, and nature protection. I'd like to mention in particular my answer to why. A senator's provisional figures for the EEA's emissions of greenhouse gas in 2019 that were published last summer indicate that we are beginning to achieve results from our actions. What a joy it is because for years before, we had been standing in the way! It'll be exciting to see now that the numbers are finally coming in the spring where we stand. I expect over the years, we will continue to see this trend, which is a measure of our projection on climate. I'd also like to mention the assessment of the EEA, which takes place every year in peace-installed areas. There we see, as I've seen at the agency, quite a change in the number of years, where we're getting results for the funding we've been setting up in the development of infrastructure.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u52	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for his answers. Of course, it is a pleasure if such results can be measured, that they are returning. It is a cause for rejoicing. I'm also going to ask you about the extra money for climate: What's the highest estimate? Ministers that a great deal of money goes into buying outlets according to this program, since we have not fulfilled our responsibilities in climate matters according to our global commitments? Is that amount expected in this program, and how high is it? When it comes to action, I'll ask a few questions. The highest. Ministers agree with me that it is necessary that we personally burn our wastes, which cannot be replaced in this country, and that we burn it in the environmental waste management, technological and environmental practices as far as possible? Can he agree with me that it is our goal to do this and then, in line with my proposal for a synopsis to build here a high-tech dump, that we build it here on the land? Can he agree with me on this? I also ask, "Can the highest. " Ministers agree with me and the subject of my proposal for increased woodforestation for carbon binding? Can he agree with me that we should increase forestry to carbon binding in the next few years, or is he in a different light than is indicated by a memory of growing forestry?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u53	V.E.G. President. First, it is to answer, only to add the answer from earlier, that the results are likely to be successful. A senator made talk on a successful scale always published in the Minister's annual report. Of course, you're right. A senator sees that there are some things that will help him to appreciate the results of others. We know what it's like. Some things are more measurable than others, but we do not have to waste time in a philosophical debate about them here. I'd like to come in for the release warrants if you don't mind. A senator mentioned. This will be the year 2013 of the Kyoto Protocol, and it is clear that we will, unfortunately, have to purchase emissions simply because the Icelandic government did not handle this period long enough early. Although it was done by massive action by the current government, it was late entered a period of failure, unfortunately. We do not have the full cost of this process yet, so it is not included in this program so that it needs to be handled specifically. About the incinerator stuff I had. A senator has often discussed in the public assembly, and I welcome that discussion over and over again, and I think we agree that it needs to be burned to the extent that it cannot be reused or recycled because it is better to be burned than waste. We can also generate energy, electricity, that kind of thing. The waste is the responsibility of the rural community, but we are in cooperation with the European Union to figure out which countries are best prepared to do this for the whole country. Only with regard to forestry: I've been putting extra money on forestry, land healing, and recovery of wetlands, and it's my opinion that we should continue on that course simply because it brings us results in climate and is also important for other purposes, such as this. regaining ecosystems and facing challenges in nature protection
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u54	Mr. President. It is not easy to come up here and discuss financial plans for the next year under current circumstances. It is vague, and it is largely repeated material, repeated content of a government that disappears soon and seems to go unconcerned. The climate crisis is the greatest challenge mankind has ever faced. This well knows the environmental secretary. We are struggling with disaster, some countries talk about an emergency, and it cannot be avoided, nor does it mean that we are also dealing with the global conflict. We too have responsibilities for Icelanders. This is a significant step toward a total of 1 billion dollars. This year according to budget. What does it mean, what would this money go to? Is this factor not defined, or is it part of this general project, such as foresting, a good job, or is it also a city line, that is part of this billions of produce? According to a new McKinsey report, Europe needs about 5.8% of land production in less-emission investments in order to have a chance to meet its obligations. If we look at the McKinsey report, it would take about 174 billion a year to reduce emissions if we apply this percentage in Iceland. That is 20 times the amount given in 2026. Where are new and radical action during the time of disaster? How will this achieve the ambitious aims of the government? Are we just in such a good situation? There is concern that this financial program, as far as it goes, simply assumes that donations and elements will be reduced to climate in the coming years. Isn't there something wrong with that? A respectable president. I allow myself to resort to wording that often comes from another's lips. A chairman here in the symposium: How on earth is this?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u55	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Hv. A senator claims that the government's financial plan is repeated material and that if I understood the reason, the government has no regard for things. A senator is correct. I guess I don't agree very well. The budget presented here basically protects the increases that have taken place in various issues, including environmental issues, in recent years. In addition, as we look at the environment, we are increasing our donations by a billion each year in climate. I would've thought that. A senator who I don't know better than to be with me and others on the climate car would celebrate this rather and if it hadn't been, would probably have been heard from the corner. I would like to agree that inequities are a point we must look to when it comes to climate. Depending on how much we have in the hands, our actions may affect people differently. This is one of the analyses we've started at the Ministry on the basis of our strategy. But what is this billion increase? Yes, it is looking to speed up energy exchange, and 3 billion out of 10 are taking extra energy change support in the years to speed it up. There we focus on energy exchanges in heavy transport and energy exchanges for tourism, especially. This will increase land healing, forestry and recovery of wetlands, i.e. Less than 4 billion of this 10. This will take better public transport and infrastructure, especially when it comes to environmentalization of vehicles and then on climate-based agriculture. These are all measures aimed at helping us to increase our commitments to Iceland, introduced by the prime minister in December.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u56	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer and assure him that I am a passenger on the environmentally friendly bus with him, celebrating every cent, every million on the project. We only get one chance to save the planet. It's just that way. I call attention to the fact that as early as 223 C.E. and until 2026, the scope of climate action will be much lower in financial terms if this works. Is the future of the government's view that budget should be reduced for climate action? I'm asking the highest. Minister. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Secretary of why the contributions to climate are taken out of parentheses, have they decided to raise the budget until 2031? Why until 2031? Why not to 2026 or even to 2040? Is there a show, some tents, to fulfill the terms we have taken, the Paris Convention, and to prepare for the United Nations Climate Conference that will be held in Glasgow in the fall where we must have a ten - year plan? Is there a game set up? Are these illusions, some tune of patem tents? Is there a point of mind? Do we have any chance? If we do not do better, is there any hope that this will be achieved by the current emphasis? There's nothing else to do, a respectable president, but to put it all in perspective with the unfair and weak response of the government of the Covid-19 Depression and the resistance we need to focus on. In every neighborhood country, we see an example of this. Norway's government has started a tens of millions of conflicts in the transport of carbon. Dans have set up a green investment fund which supports eco-friendly structure and energy exchange and climate change development and earlier, the Scots state-bound investment bank, which invests in green, industrial development and projects that promote carbon shareless society. That's how you can go on for a long time. Won't you be needing a much bigger response, Mr. President, a decisive action and a clear view?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u57	V.E.G. President. How important it is that all of us appreciate that in this discussion, what we do well to do! One member of the United States noted that contributions to climate decline after 223 C.E. is correct if you look at the figures on the income side, i.e. the coincidences, because it's assumed that environmentally transmitted vehicles will collapse. However, this may not necessarily be the case, simply because the decision has not been made here at the General on whether it will be extended. I hope they do not need to be extended because, hopefully, these vehicles will become competitive with the diesel truck and the fuel truck, but if they need to be extended, I'm convinced that the Allied will make a decision to continue in the course of promoting energy change, or to direct these people in some other direction, e.g. for heavy transport or ships. Why is this in 2031? We naturally aim for the 2030's period of commitment. I think it's fine only if the public knows that now it's a show of the Icelandic government that puts this billion in every year, and it's also moving forward over the periods of this financial program. Finally, I want to agree with it. A senator refers to the importance of innovation and green investments. I remind them of the Senate's prime secretary's bill of raising green investments, that they give tax appeals to companies that attack on certain types of investments that meet specific criteria and can be considered as ◯green. The same could be said of innovation. There's been a huge increase in funding. Last week, funding for innovation from a climate Fund was being allocated, finally being implemented in 2019 C.E.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u58	A respectable president. As you can see from the financial program here, over tens of billions of people are built up in climates for the next few years, and I think that goals and realistic expectations are important, and most of the results are being achieved when such large amounts of taxpayers are given the highest-relevant job. Environment Ministers and I agree that there are certain challenges and positive tasks. The report Restored by the Environment Ministry, a number of years ago, evaluated the cost of recovery of wetlands, a single operation in all of this. The conclusion of the report was that the cost was about 800 bucks. per ton of carbon dioxide, if considered to be one year's success, but only about 16 k. if you look for 50 years, which is not far off because this is a permanent method of recovery. According to Icelandic scientists, the largest part of Iceland's greenhouse gas emissions from land use, the most advanced land, accounts for a range of 60 to 470 percent. That's what I've been pointing at for the next decade. Wetland's reserve provides a carbon balance on the ton of 2,000 bucks. With the recovery of wetlands, another company called Sirwood provides a carbon equation with woodforest for 2,200 k. the ton. In other words, the cost of this particular operation has been evaluated. Does the story point to this financial program on page 20. It says that between 2020 and 2,2024, it is estimated that a total of 60 billion people are being joined. What do these 60 billion bars have? reduction of emissions? The answer to this is important to me. What, then, is the cost of a ton? As far as I can see, the ways in which the government is going on climates are potentially far more expensive than, for example, in this case. The recovery of wetlands by the methods I have mentioned here, perhaps even 50 times more expensive. I'll do it for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u59	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for picking up the side of climate issues facing the recovery of wetlands. What I want to talk to you about. A senator is the very important thing to attack in the recovery of wetlands, not only from climate change, but also from other goals, especially in recovery of ecosystems from birds and other animals, because it is important that natural protection exists too. We have been globally initiating wetlands around 50% of the wetlands that existed before man's influence began to be as much as it is today. Wetlands hold enormous amounts of carbon, like a whale. The senator was actually pointing and pointing to, so I agree that it is very important to increase the urgency of the situation. A plan presented in the summer of 2019, covered tenfold in the recovery of wetlands from 2017 or 2018, now in the four years up to 2022. This will be of great importance to the climate but also to the protection of the environment. The point that I would like to draw to this end is that we have to look at a variety of activities in the climate, simply because some of them are more involved in our climate commitment than in others. The restoration of wetlands has diverse goals in mind, but it does not count as much as many other factors to reduce our accounting.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u60	A respectable president. At the top. Environment Ministers agree that there are a number of advantages for this particular operation that works so well in Iceland, the recovery of wetlands, because it serves so many purposes, and the recovery of both wetlands and forestry, of course, increases land quality. But the highest. A minister did not answer my question, which I think is of great importance: What is the cost of each ton of the measures described in the budget that are 60 billion in the next few years? How much is a ton? I'm right, if you hit it, it'll cost the ton even $150,000. which, of course, is enormously high compared to what the Wetlands Fund offers, e.g. That's 2,000 bucks. the ton, or carbon, with tree farm 2,200 kr. This is what I think is important to me. I've mentioned here in this hall and several times that one of them leads as such. biofuel uses for conventional fuels. It seems to me that way has cost the state budget about 10 billion dollars. The tax returns from 2015. I have often asked, " What is the real result of this wealth? ' He's nobody, exactly nobody. And if we stop this operation, we're still at the beginning, in contrast with wetland recovery, that's a long term operation, a permanent operation. A respectable president. I'm asking the highest. Environment Minister, if this could be so that the international agreements we are parties to the issue of directing our resources and energy to the wrong direction. V.E.G. A minister himself mentioned that the recovery of wetlands was just so much and so much. This is because this operation is not suitable for other countries. Iceland is to have a unique status and to deal with climate and environments that are suitable for us, our great country which is already with an 80% share of renewable energy in all its energy use. This must have to be taken into account when there are tens of billions of dollars left out of taxpayers each year for the next few years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u61	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator came on something very important and is a cost-and-resurrection analysis for the action being carried out. What the government's strategy is based on this point is the analysis available from the National Economic Institute of the University of Iceland, but we have also begun our analysis now specifically on the strategy that was published in the last summer, where these factors are further addressed. I think this is going to matter a lot when we continue to make decisions about each one of us directly at the government's capital in the climate. I'd like to mention to you about the energy exchange that it is extremely important that we continue with these indiscretions that have been, as long as we need it. Thus, we make good use of the government's funds to promote the transitions that must be made. I don't agree that international agreements are turning us in the wrong direction. I think it's very important that we keep track of Norway and the European Union simply because there's a great ambition. We need to show that we can reduce emissions of key factors, such as energy, agriculture, fishing, waste, and other factors. Then there's a natural, which is right next to what's wrong. Senator, a special situation in Iceland when it comes to agriculture. It is a large amount of emissions that we also have to cope with. But I think I appreciate that in many of these matters, it is important that we do more.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u62	President. Iceland has just added its commitments to the Paris Convention, and we have reached 55% reduction. It was announced on December 11, last December 17, that a financial plan, which we are dealing with, was accepted, and it did not explain how we were going to reach our goals by 55%. You expected a new program to produce plans for meeting this newly announced decision to increase your contractions to 55%. However, this is not done because the plan is materially unchanged from the last financial programme before the year. The only thing you see here is an intermediate transfer of 1 billion from reserves to the topic fields for which the billion were intended in accordance with a special investment initiative due to a Covid response adopted last year, a billion which was there before going to increase the commitments to 55% decline. My question is very simple, where is the plan on how we get this 55% contraction? Why isn't it somewhere very accessible, just black and white? This is our big goal. Why can't I access the EEA or the Environment Ministry web and see our 55% objective - that's this date, we're here and we're going to achieve the objective by certain measures and guards? Why, first of all, is it so hard to have something like that? Second, why is this not discussed in a financial program where governments are to discuss it?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u63	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for today's discussion. Maybe you should go over this a little bit first. Of course, the change in earlier financial plans is only making clear in this regard, adding a billion more each year to the climate, which I think we're going to have. A senator can agree that there is a good and positive action. But this also means that all the increases that have occurred in recent years, not just to climate - I want to use this opportunity to talk a little more about the environment - but to myself. There we are talking about a 50% increase between 2017 and 2021 and an increase of almost 70% between 2017 and 2026. I don't think we've ever seen such an increase to this group of paintings, and maybe we've never had to do it as much as we do now. But, hey. Senator wants to know where's the plan, the exact plan, about 55%? It is to say that we have a plan in the last summer, which was about 40%, like the winter. A senator remembers. Exactly how we achieve more goals, we have not come so far, but we are putting in the extra funding that we believe will help us and get us to the point where it will succeed. There are many other things besides funding that will matter, of course, i.e. ... ontheminder. We've also discussed a little bit about the income side, especially the indiscretions that I know and what I'm doing. A senator agrees that the decision has not yet been made. There, too, I welcome the prime minister's bill on the appeals to green investments that are so important.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u64	President. In our last financial program, we had a goal of 40%, and we found in the evidence that half of what it took to achieve that goal was inexpensive and inexpensive, considering how I understood it at least. We saw in a special investment campaign as a response to Covid that there was an extra market and half of it went to agriculture and forestry, which still seems to be not directly involved in this 55%. You'd think they were counting on this unexplored, up to 40%. Where, though, is the missing objective of 55% reduction? That's what I don't quite understand and how much less in this financial program, where it's just decided not to make any material changes. Every time a financial program is submitted and a government policy study is being conducted, the situation is being updated. What's the status of 2020? In a financial program that we agreed on by Christmas, we had the 2019 position. Now in a financial program, we should have an overview of the situation to be able to compare and see how the trend is being developed, but we are not getting that way because the government's financial policies are not being updated in the last financial programme. Then we have no idea if we need to respond with less money, more capital, the same capital, and not knowing what its effect is in putting money into these classes. Now, I suppose, considering how much was before, it needs more money, but it's just a guess. I don't like to guess when it comes to public money.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u65	V.E.G. President. The government's operation program since June of last year showed that by the measures that were then assessed, 35% of reduction was expected to be achieved. By an operation that had been prepared but was yet to be evaluated, because they were still in the process and many of them are still in the process, it was believed that we should be able to make it up to 40◯46%. What we are doing now by adding this billion is an injection to carry on with these tasks, and time needs to be shown exactly what they will return. But the objective of the government is clear. It is reaching a 55% contracture between the Norway and the European Union. I do not agree that there are material changes when it comes to the climate between the budget of December and now, simply because here we are adding to the financial resources for climate - related solutions, increased support for energy exchange, better public transport and infrastructure and climate - changing agriculture. The underlying issue is e.g. in the previously unsettled energy exchange, to place capitals on heavy transport energy exchange projects and, in particular, transport energy exchange. This is of utmost importance because the car fleet that is bought from the rental and returns to the retailing market is about 40 to50%, and it is very important that the more and more of it become climate or environmental vehicles. Then again, I remind the bill that the secretary of finance spoke for in December, in the same time as Iceland's increased commitments were made, of the green investments that will be important and will be a good example. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u66	Mr. President. The climate is a real threat, and we need to take major steps to reduce emissions and keep our international commitments. Although there are many positive aspects of the government's operation, I feel that I lack the tendency to get the public in the country and to have a strong job life in and on this journey. The basis for international competition for the production and the development of Icelandic exports is that the enterprise may be involved in making our community sustainable and sustainable. In this way, we will permanently secure a better standard of living in Iceland. To me, the only right answer is to focus on just how much money goes to the seminary. It must also ensure that the actions work and reach all. V.E.G. Ministers have spoken of an increase in climate expenditure at this time of the total of 10 billion. In fact, it calls me to note that the Minister's plan reaches, as far as 2031 C.E., but the budget itself reaches only 2026. It seems that the period has been extended in this category just so that it can reach the 10 billion. Why not just talk about the year 2050 and see what number you get out of that exercise? In order to be successful, we need the collective effort of all people, not just the efforts of governments, which may inevitably be all on the basis of the government. The European Union has approached the situation in a way that I find healthy and beautiful to get companies with and developed a powerful system of support to help SMEs in this regard. My question to the highest. A minister is whether any similar work has taken place here in this form, to ensure that the remuneration will be restored to the job and to the households in the form of support for those who reduce greenhouse gas emissions and improve their activities. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u67	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for a good comment on the discussion. Whatever it is. A senator specifically mentions where the public and the company come more into this, not just what is involved in government. The financial resources involved in the environment, and I'd like to mention both what goes into the recycling system, what goes to the climate and what's deduction or decrease on the income side, e.g. to green investments and the parks, all of it is something that is useful to the public and to the business of the country. How important it is that we look at it with their eyes! Thus, the government is promoting green investments by means of a prime minister of finance, which was put here before New Year's Eve, as legally established. For example, the government promotes green investments by advertising funding for the promotion of the cycle economy, where we post funding in order to carry out important law changes in a bill that will have a light for the day after Easter, and it will include the following: about waste. Then the government has adopted a special partnership with the companies of the country through Greenland, which, in turn, is heading for it. to give suggestions on how different sectors can reach noncarbonization in the year 2040, and we expect to see it this summer. Only to enter it as a dog. A senator mentioned the year 2026 or 2031 when we decided to make this statement simply because the commitment period in the Paris meeting is out in 2030, which made it appropriate for us to make this statement, of course, but simple accounts show that when it is a billion each year, it is 5 for the present period. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u68	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers are very happy for the answers, perhaps especially the answer to the time period and the basis for that, and the figure in question is then 5 billion. It is good to hear his comments about the viewpoints I used in my earlier talk and that there are things in my pipe. I may miss the fact that the line to work on this is not completely clear and clear in view of the fact that the ideal period is almost over. This is the last financial programme of this government, and time has been in place. However, I found many good things to be said in the highest language. Minister. Climate priorities must be in my mind based on the best available data and based on what measures will be most effective in the shortest time and, of course, under best circumstances at the lowest cost. In order to achieve that, I think that a close cooperation between the Ministry of Environment and other Councilies, especially the economy and the sector, is required, but also a close partnership with the rural community on action, e.g. including the city line, and measures such as density based at least Part of the environment. But in order to ensure real success, I think that you always have to look very hard to get your professional life to the table. It should be easy and desirable to participate in green progress. Key elements in this, I think, is that the increase due to climate change will be not merely a new major stock for state funds but that other expenditures will be reduced equally so that climate activities can be reconciled on a broad scale and that the necessary solidarity of this enormously important issue will be assured. It would be wish to obtain clearer suggestions and measurable goals for employment and home life. Therefore, I would like to ask a minister now whether he will suggest or whether he will expect to have a clear and timed plan for the government's support of homes and businesses in support of this important objective before the season ends. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u69	V.E.G. President. I'd like to first mention what was being said. A senator says the frame isn't quite in the position. I mean, he does. Actually, we're working after a first financial programme, where there are goals and in whatever way we should work on them, and the addition to the climate is explained here. I think it's very important that we be moving on after the great structure of the funding to this category that has become plus this added addition that is now becoming. Hv. A senator introduces a very interesting point, which, of course, is between recruitment and cooperation with rural society and, of course, the business community. In fact, this is quite a challenge because climate issues address so exorbitantly many issues and because that is how the government decided to set up a special Ministerial Commission on climate issues that will take in all the major decisions that depend on them. It is also a staff of Ministry Directors to follow up on the issue because someone has to hold on to the strings and make sure that they are working on and following up current schedules, and it is new from this government financed. I've given tremendous importance to the budget we've been providing for the Environment and Resource Ministry is following financial support. I agree with this, too, regarding my rural communities and development, there is one factor there. I'd like to mention that I have a Constitution of revised rural policy, including... comes into the way rural communities look at climate in their organization, which has already taken place a great deal of conversation and will continue. Then just in terms of a time plan for government support. [[The president calls.]] It lies, I'd like to mean, for the most part, just on the basis of the current strategy and the increase now being under way, but it will be clarified even later. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u70	A respectable president. We're still discussing a budget to 2026. I'd like to ask the highest. Environment Minister if the risk of forest fires has begun to be charted and placed on fire chambers or if it is expected to be completed during this period, up to 2026. I've asked him before, but I just want to know what the situation is on, especially if we're also involved in the moss and tendons, whether the risks have been crossed. I'd also like to ask if there's a plan on how to handle it, say it would be. large forest burns at the Hallorm site or in the Surgeon Valley, whether there are plans, whether there are tools and tools to react, or if there is something that may be handled in the future. Then I'd like to ask about pollutants. I know that me and the Icelanders have sold some smoldering dishes, but could it be that we might even have to buy some air pollutant? I understand that the price of these pollutants has become quite high, and I would like to ask if he believes that somehow he does not need to change this system because there is a bit crazy that we should be selling wastey animal dishes, which are saying to increase its filth. [[The president calls.]] Do we not have to come up with some other solution?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u71	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for today's introduction, and he's going to start by approaching his question about mapping the risk of forest fires. First, by saying that these differences vary considerably from place to place. A senator even mentioned: The Inferno Valley. I know pretty well because it's close to my old home band. I know there's a risk assessment in progress, but it's exactly where it's going. I'm sorry, I can't tell why. A senator from the hospital right now. We may be in a position to deal with this depending on where it might be, but it is quite certain that by climate change, there is a certain danger that forest fires could increase. It can also play into invasive alien species - they may contain a great deal of fire food. I'll call the lollipop, for example. About the other thing. A senator made it clear that Iceland will have to buy so-called emissions from the 2013-2020 Kyoto season. When the present government began to take over and increased the force of climate, it was not enough to be successful before that time, but we do believe that we will fulfill our commitment to the Paris Convention in 2030. It's a disposal market where the companies have to deliver, and I'm coming in on it in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u72	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister for the answer and reiterates the question of whether he calculates with some huge cost of pollution taxes for us, it would be very good to know, as well as how to sell pollutants. Then there is another question that I want to ask him about environmental matters, but it seems that there is always a danger that the worst is affected. We can only take those who live in poverty, they often get the worst in terms of taxation, pollution taxes, and various taxes. Then they're also in a worse position as well. while driving, trying to get into an eco-friendly car. These people usually find themselves in contaminated old cars, unable to afford to buy a new car, and as a result, they are being confined to their positions in order to own vehicles. Isn't it time to make sure the unfortunate at least equal numbers of others in the possibility of switching from decommissioning vehicles to electric vehicles, tin cars, or ◯hybrid, or other vehicles? It is not always a compliment to those who have money but then to place the taxes and environmental taxes that can most impact on those to whom it is due.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u73	V.E.G. President. It's only about the last one or two. A senator came in. I want to agree with him, and I think we're going to debate that the transitions that need to take place because of climate change must be fair and they can't take more of the less wealthy than the more wealthy. One way in which it can be used may be to include changes in the waste laws I have proclaimed, those who do well to classify garbage can pay less. There's one way. The eco-friendly automobiles are a very good example. There's a senator here. Hence, it is of utmost importance that they be able to move to the post office as soon as possible. Most of the vehicle fleet in the market comes from rentals, there are about 40 to 50%, and there are not many eco-friendly cars. One of the things we are putting forward in this financial program is just more funding to speed up this trend, which is important. But we must also place this reasonable transition in connection with something else that is being done, such as. that there have been three-stage tax systems that are most suitable for those with the least of the hands, more child support, etc., that have been most useful to those who have the least in the hands, although they can always do better in that regard. Only with regard to the emissions-of-employment system, where companies such as our aluminium are given a set of units but have to buy what is missing. In effect, when the warrants have become so high that it pays to find ways to reduce pollution, it will. It is not in itself a matter of government funds. However, in 2030 we have to meet our international commitments, and our plans assume that we will. [[The president calls.]] Every time, governments that remain in control until 2030 need to ensure that we meet that goal.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u74	A respectable president. It is not long since we completed our discussion at the Parliament on the current budget of 2021 52025, and after yesterday's discussion, it should be clear to all that the document presented is addressed in the big picture, i.e. The government role of the government. The major change in my seminaries has to do with the rurals through the Skull Fund of rural society. By means of an updated income project, contributions to rural society through the balance fund are expected to increase by more than 4 billion dollars. During the period of financial planning. A shift in rural development is expected to improve during the latter part of the period according to the current strategy. Hall is estimated to be 28 billion k. Next year, 3 billion bucks. In recent years financial programs. As a result of improvements in rural society in the latter part of the period, the need for invasive measures is reduced, and the level of rural debt is now expected to increase less than previously expected. Another change I'd like to inform you about the previous strategy has to do with the environmentalism of public transport, just as the discussion was here. Less than a billion dollars. will be spent extra on this important project. In addition to the government's action programme for climate change since June. The aim is to promote green travel patterns and to increase the number of users. I am proud of the solidarity that has been achieved with improved transport and the results that have already been achieved and with the results being achieved. Indeed, strong and safe infrastructure is the basis for better quality of life. During the season, we have spent 189 billion on transportation. This is an increase of an average of 17 billion per year compared to the previous four years. Much has been achieved, but the need for performance and maintenance has not been nearly reduced. But the right time to invest in the interiors of the state is now, making a living, keeping the wheels of the economy going. I'd also like to mention cooperation on the road, cooperation between public and professional life. They may, on the other hand, focus on larger and important projects that support national benefits with the emphasis on traffic security. We live on an island, so airports play a key role in a valuable creation. It has been one of my priorities, and it can be clearly identified in a transport program. The amount of money to refuse has been increasing, but in the years to come, we spend an average of 1,700 million dollars. each year to strengthen seafronts around the country. Put in context, the government fund strengthened the average ports of 400 million a year in the leading period of the season. We're here talking about a 300 percent increase a year. There is a new port on the Sunday bank at Isafjord, a North Park in Gravits, a steel deck in the Deepvogur, a reinvent of Bilfs Back in Sullen, construction in the Sólveig, the Njardík Sea, and the list is endless. At the airports, there has also been a transformation. There were simply no projects for years. We are now working to expand both the airport and the airport in Akureyri, which have new opportunities for international flights to expand into the country. In addition to the maintenance of many smaller airports in many parts of the country, there are developments in the Loftur Park Airport. At that time, the air bridge is one of the most magnificent settlements in later times and is much equal to the situation of those who live away from their capital. That assignment is well-finished and started. We continue to support national parish programmes, we've raised the money. We focus on increasing the number of employment instruments, improving communications, telecommunications, telecommunications services, because this is important for the inhabitants of the scattered regions. In this discussion, I also want to mention online security only. This is in order to make a new group of paintings, new realities, actually a dark side of being associated with the world around us. Prevention and reacting in this area must be in place because it produces a lot of money to companies and to individuals. With a bill passing through the council last year, financial resources will be fully financed in this important issue, with over 600 million each year. I'd like to say at the end of this, that in a revised financial program, the government is responsible. She takes responsibility to get the nation out of this temporary difficulty with Covid, a responsibility to create new jobs and protect existing ones, to promote investments, to create innovation. She is responsible for strengthening the position of those who have lost their jobs for a while, for the responsibility of strengthening their jobs and rural unions. The actions of the government last year and the current year provide evidence of an immediate, dynamic response, and we see this in this financial program, a reaction that has probably rarely been more necessary than right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u75	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A secretary for the opening talk to this discussion about the parts of the financial program that are under the highest pressure. Minister. There are things I wanted to enter, which were only close to in unsubstantiated inquiries earlier today. There they discussed the matter. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason at the highest. Minister on how a plan for implementation actually comes forward. According to the Economic Institutes, which was associated with Iceland's Bank a few days ago, it appears that public investments are being greatly reduced. What I thought was special this morning after listening to the exchange of words. A senator and minister was just how vague the foundation seemed to be in which it was referred. V.E.G. A minister seemed to think that there could be a comparison between apples and oranges without anything being tried to cheat on numbers, people just weren't comparing comparable things. Of course, it is an amazing situation if we cannot be trusted with regard to it when we look at chapter 6 of this financial program, where there are about 4 billion each year's budget and infrastructure rights. I kind of need to reiterate and ask the highest. Minister, because it matters to all the other things in this document: Has the Minister since unsubstantiated inquiry earlier today tried to understand this, if it really is such a thing that the Hauspic Service is getting the wrong part of society's activities? If we cannot get to the very foundation of discussing the numbers on the same basis, then what this document says may not really matter. It must be the first in line for us to talk out of common ground in terms of figures and assumptions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u76	Mr. President. Thank you for the inquiry and the rest of the discussion today because I think it needs to get a little deeper. It is simply that humans rely on different standards, which sort things only differently, and we should call for complete explanations of them from our system. This morning I received a request that the government's investment have been reduced, and then everything that was discussed was about the investment of the state funds and mostly in transportation, and I was just pointing out that it was wrong. The fact is, the government's investments have increased, while rural society has declined. When we talk about the public, we're also talking about societies. Of course, we know that Istavia had a marvelous plan, called the '-masster plan, which, of course, was delayed that last year's income crash was complete. So there are a few things that explain this. We have also seen that when we invest in what we view as an investment in innovation, it may be considered a little different. This has only been discussed with the Ministerial Table and simply said that it would be very important for us to have an accurate analysis of this. I agree with the senator that we need to be able to speak about the facts as they are, not to argue about them. The fact is, when it comes to investments in my language groups, I know those numbers. I see them building, and I was explaining. A senator earlier today that if he didn't believe it, I could take him for a ride or a ride. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason is welcome for that ride.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u77	It's a question of whether there's room for both of us in the same car.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u78	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the drive, I'm always interested in driving through a new territory. But there's another thing I'd like to come in here. In the Annex 1 of Table 5 the budget for transport and communications is 2020 to 48 billion, budget 2021 to 59, then back to 50, and ends to 42 during the programme period. This is, to say, a 20% reduction in the schedule period, but between 2020 and 2021, this figure goes by 23%. Isn't this a little electiony, topsie? Minister? I ask because this one doesn't talk. This is not to say that it only keeps going on but, as early as 2022, it goes from 59.5 billion to 50 billion and 17 million to 48, 43, 42, and right to 42 billion in 2026. Granted, there may be a possibility that additional funds will eventually come, but in the course of this case, it's a great campaign plan, and especially if we keep in mind how the Habitat seems to look at these numbers and projects. It was fine at the top. A minister entered a major decrease in investments in a rural society. Now it's the highest. Minister as well, the minister of the local government, and I ask, "What do you think?" A minister in the development of rural society in this regard? Of course, we all know the horrors of the city's finances that should be the most powerful investor in the country at this time outside the state's budget. [[The president calls.]] So if time worked, I would be grateful to the highest degree. Minister if he went into the investment capacity of the rural society after he explained to me that this is not an election number, of course, 2021.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u79	A respectable president. I'm gonna start with my community. In budgets for the current year and the next year, investments have taken on a great deal, and people are involved in the game, with a very good government. I think there was naturally some anxiety at the beginning of the epidemic. No, it's not an election plan. So in 2020 and in 2021, we began two investments, one in 2020 and another in 2023. In the past, we had grown up with a very ambitious transport plan, which said the plan of action for the first five years, which had then come down and that we haven't improved. That's the project of the next government and the next transport program. So the investment will explain the high difference. There are so many good and needed projects in the road system because the road and transport plans may be our oldest project. There we were simply able to take an assignment from the shelf, many of which got started immediately last year and finished. This year, the construction of the project began to be even greater than that of this year. Some of these reach only 2022, even 223. That explains the difference and how the number goes down. Does that mean, though, that it is beyond the imagination and that it falls into operation? No, that's not because we came back with the cooperation, the PPP routes that start this year with even greater force next year and then next year. They will then lay down these figures and raise the project so that we will have a very high level of construction here for the next seven, eight years and, in effect, 15 years because we must not forget the better transport, the transport contract of the capital area, 120 billion in 15 years. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u80	Mr. President. The government has been thrilled to produce spectacular spectacles of its actions during the election season. They have stressed the extensive structure of society's infrastructure, increased contributions to settlements, build-up of tourist infrastructure, and increased land cover and environmental action. Most of this list is far beyond any cause and has been less than necessary in these most important categories. Diversity and profit - making investments are the basis for growing valuables and increasing investments will be key to getting us out of the business crisis. But we have to do much better. Investment in wood has been too small in recent years, and it will take longer if things cannot be corrected. A new report by the Industrial Association shows that the expected increase in public investment will little longer be cut to the cumulative maintenance need created after the last downturn. In order for internal conditions to be acceptable, public investments must be increased and there is a need for 420 billion investments to bring these matters to a good standing, according to the Industrial Association. Unable to meet our normal maintenance needs, we do not. It is made up of solemn declarations that make major investments on the road. Then, in the event of the event, the card is turned in the opposite direction, considering and reading current financial programs. There is more money to be made than to increase. We can see that the reduction will be 30% in the next five years. It's inexhaustible in terms of maintenance needs and economic issues. How does it explain that? Minister of this? Despite the crying need, there is no work to be done on the earth today. [[The president calls.]] What does this tell us about the plans and ambitions of the governments in these matters? What vision is being proclaimed?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u81	A respectable president. I think it was a front of everything true and right next to it. A senator, who was commending the government for ambitious infrastructure. I don't think it's just right. I think it's fair to admit it. We have started very hard in many areas during this season and have achieved great success. We have a new opportunity when there was a chance of performing an investment campaign because of the global epidemic, not just one but two. One thing that included tasks that could be done in 2020 and that were ready, many of them finished and others are running out, and the investment campaign that started this year and then looks into 2022 and 2023, and in some cases even a little longer in buildings, not necessarily for road repairs. I explained earlier in a previous talk why the number decreases to performance in the road system or in the overall process. That's even. Because of the investment campaign, but also because we were funding ourselves in a financial program, we put extra money in order to get things started because it's right around the corner. A senator, nothing was done too long since the collapse of the economy. But we have certainly turned it around, and we have already made sure that this development will remain very high. If we then add our cooperation, transportation and public transportation in the capital area on top, we are talking about the biggest investment in transport for a very long time. But we haven't forgotten the maintenance. In 2016 it reached 5.5 billion. We have reached 10, 11 billion. In fact, the latest need is estimated from 14 people, so there are still challenges to make, and the need is great, and I agree with it. A senator on this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u82	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. It is a crying assignment in many places, as the minister knows well how to guess. There are no tunnels at the construction level right now. Of course, we would have had to join in and have at least a share. two fully developed tasks, complete each time in order to seize the opportunity. A respectable president. Farmers all over the country have a crisis rated many of those who have high confidence in their tourism. It is very limited if there is room for investment. This will bite in these areas as early as possible. The government has neglected local societies, making it much more difficult for them to attack large investments that are necessary. The last fall, when financial plans were submitted, it was preconceived for a recession into the investment of the rural communities. Under these circumstances, the State, is to step forward. What are the plans? The government at the farsights has some small contributions to the rural community, e.g. Practical loans? Then we find that the projecting of road construction is reducing by about 7 billion from year to year. V.E.G. A minister has explained this in his own way. A total of 2,021 years ago, at the 2021 Society's Council of Industrial Services, an invitation was announced to be carried out in less than 132 billion, but this resulted in a 29% lower value. What Is the Cause? I would also like to ask a minister if it is not important to seek any advice to speed up the infrastructure and also to ask a minister if it has been examined sufficiently. Mr. President. Just at the end. In financial programmes, energy exchange in transport is limited and discussed the need to secure income in order to continue the development and maintenance of transport workers. You need to revise this whole tax system and that the solution will probably involve some kind of automobile taxation. Mr. President. What are some of the ways in which we can discuss and what is the greatest view? Minister of this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u83	A respectable president. It was close to a lot of things, and at the end of a lot of things, we'd probably need half an hour to explain. But it's true that because we're leaving, of course, gas and diesel expenditures and going to some kind of use fees, we're about to lose our financial resources. The technology there goes forward, so I'm not going to spend my time here today saying what I think most likely. However, we enter this system sooner than later, moving it over, where some kind of use of energy tax comes from. With a funeral plan, I agree with you. A senator said that it is a sin and shame that we have not had long - term plans before. When I say long-term plans, it's not unusual to talk about 20, 30, 40 years when it comes to such large, massive projects. That is why I stressed that in the last transport program, there is a return to a tunnel plan, such as it once was. Now, the road has been working on a comprehensive review in the next transport program, a much more detailed land tunnel program. Then we will be better equipped to set priorities and decide which projects will be next, and most important, to get the message to the people waiting to know this and to eliminate uncertainty as to how they can predict that the amount of transport to the local community will change in the coming years and decades. It's important to eliminate uncertainty. With regard to rural society, it is only this way, so I refer to this strategy, that their status was much better than expected, their payment was much smaller than that of men fear, and their ability to make investments is greater, and as I have been told, their budgets of considerable investments are estimated both this year and next year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u84	President. Last night, I was complaining to the highest. A marine dignitary and agricultural minister over the boundaries that the Parliament filled it and says he can only work within the framework and nothing more than that. In this case, the Secretary of State prides himself on the fact that the government is doing so much extra for the funding approved by the Council. You can't hold on and get away. It's the council that has the budget. The problem I see in all of this is that the council won't be able to explain why things cost so much and why they cost so little or much and what the results are of the money we're supposed to use. The highest-class painting. A minister, though, is the most effective guide in a transport program where the cost analysis is quite good, even if it is missing the benefit analysis. However, there are some standards that were complained about in the last financial program, which we really are, in fact, repeating it, not changing. They simply did not work. They are not updated. It was, for example. spoke of equal access to services, in terms of the percentage of those less than 20 miles from health care, elementary school, day-to-day store. It is a standard that often does not work, for it really encourages urban areas as such. Now that the day - to - day store was laid on a church dresser, I guess I didn't reach those goals, so I found it interesting to hear from the highest point of view. Minister on this. If the standards are defective in a financial program that is now in force and is now being reassigned, is it really the same, where is this government - oriented work?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u85	A respectable president. Yeah, that's right. We can come here, the Ministers, and complain to the council that we can't get enough money and the frames aren't too great and I can quite say that when we look at the need for investment in the transport system, road system, rejection, airports, we could really use more money and get more money. The challenge, then, is how we will prioritize it and put it in the big picture when we also have a significant business in other systems. I'm also going to agree with what. A senator says we could request a better cost analysis. I'm going to say here that the road is the best thing I can do, so to speak, maybe end up with the institution that's been the longest in this business. The schedule is one of our oldest plans, so we had a lot of ideas that we could do in the investment campaign. I'm going to say that we're not bragging about it, even though it may sound like that, but I'm at least incredibly happy when we can prove that there are exploitable projects that improve traffic security. I have often said that driving success is especially measured in the quality of life and in the lives we save. Of course, such sizes can also be calculated. I have a diagnosis from other institutions where I don't think the analysis is good enough. The numbers go up every time you get an idea, you get it in the box, and then you get it updated, and it doesn't fit the frame. Then you have some priorities and new information, and it's all gone, and that's how you give up half the time. [[The president calls.]] I understand that the council wants to call for such information, and I also understand that it is difficult for the council to do so when we ministers sometimes find it difficult to explain because we have not received enough information.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u86	A respectable president. It shows itself in exactly the same way, e.g. A transport plan when we need to take action, and when we have made good plans, it can be done. This needs to be done in more ways and, as in other areas, has been tried to improve, which is positive. But better, if it's enough. I'd like to go over it for a little bit. In his exposé, a minister spoke about the balance fund. He spoke of 4 billion in those five years, an additional collection in an equation fund. Is it because of some change in that system? Or isn't it just a tab? If this is just an accounting, why can it be said that there are additional donations from the public to an equation? It's just the same ratio as before. It's like the highest. Yesterday's social and child - care minister, who was proud of himself, spoke of some 60 and 170 billion that had been added to the litigation categories, most of which was systematic growth. Why is it getting puffed up when it's just a normal, natural increase in that kind of thing? We need stewards who require them to be a little more specific in this regard. It is not just the council that deserves it but the people who are listening to it understand that the information is correct and accurate and that we are not straddling things back and forth. At the same time, we can make good and informed decisions about how we handle our tax dollars and reach the goals we want to achieve. All groups are confident of elections of the structure and infrastructure needed. That's even. Because this group of paintings has been so well funded during the election season, there were all groups agreeing on this and because there were plans. If there had been any better plans for other groups of subjects, such as. In climates, I do not doubt that there too would have been more money, for it would have been better demonstrated to the need and the effect of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u87	A respectable president. I am proud and grateful to the Parliament for the support to take place in the road system during this period when we are watching, 2022 mouse. In maintenance and construction, it will be 121 billion in comparison with 75 billion in 2013,2017. As a result of this tremendous increase, much progress and progress are being made, and these are exploiting projects that also bring us success in the future. I don't want to argue that people are getting so high on expenses or anything like that, and it's a special decision to allow automatic systems to work. The treasure is closely linked to economic growth and land production, growing and lowering, and it is quite right to say that it is being added there. But I'm not bragging about it. Same way you did. A senator calls for the truth and correctness of the story, and I have had to stand here explaining that there is not a bloody cut off on an equation fund caused by the government. The cut-off wasn't our decision. It's just a calculation that the land production fell, normal, and therefore reduced donations to an equation fund. But what did we do about it? We're bringing extra funds into certain objects to support our communities. 720 million in financial support, 600 million in the affairs of disabled persons, the capacity to make use of the financial resources of 1.5 billion, and there will be a lot of human activity this year. [[The president calls.]] It's decisions made, and I think it's good to inform both Congress and nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u88	Mr. President. The financial program for the 20222/226 shows that there is a great willingness to engage in investment campaigns, primarily to counteract the recession of the economy, and I certainly agree my mind with the will presented there. In such an effort, the Ministry is the highest. The key role of the secretary of transportation and the government. Of course, by means of money - making investments in transport, the necessary resistance to the economic contractions is accompanied by an increase in the security and efficiency of transport. It is important that these investments are properly timed so that the state is ready to run quickly in the condition we live in today, but the same is the situation so that it can stay in place when the economy takes over the job and the economy. I'd like to ask the highest. Whether the financial programme allows the State to reinvest investments as the sector's economic situation increases or whether it allows for a growing rate of growth regardless of economic factors, which are certainly insurmountable. This is my interest in asking how the funding of new development is being done, especially those who are in the starting or in the starting rooms, and especially with regard to the new funding, so-called PPP co-operation. In particular, I ask about the situation of the six projects listed in the practices of the Minister and Council earlier in the winter or during the season of election, whether projects will be started within the recession period we now live on. Then at the end, because these are just a few questions, I ask if a minister is involved at his table with a project that can be further accelerated. In this discussion, the city line has been listed as a project that is both fully organized and timed, but this is not just what I'm asking about but: Is there someone working to increase the number of PPP projects with the others, and then considering that it was a job that the job and private people could take over on the part of the state at the time?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u89	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for taking the first session for timing and investment. I'm gonna say what. A senator that I share her concerns because we fail to make the best use of investments, that things will be over-reaching, of course positive, that economic growth has responded, and I really hope it will be. But I'm worried about how late we're gonna get things started despite the fact that things are fully designed. There are some things that play into; unexpected decisions about things that have not been required before in the environmental assessment of the Organization. Here I am thinking of the road through Kjalarnes and something unexpected. Or some minor organizational adjustments that surely take a certain amount of time may delay or delay. I'll share my concerns with you. A senator of this. I'm going to say, however, that we're starting part of the six projects that we had authorized on the way of cooperation. The desert plain will be offered soon, and projects will continue in that assignment. The way for Axi will probably be extended later this year as well, followed by the Elf - Year Bridge. Lowland roads through Micrdal and through it are under environmental assessment. The waterway is supposed to be for environmental assessment. It will be a major project and will certainly not be framed within this time period. But I think if we succeed in these early activities, we've already proved by the experience of Speli and the Whale tunnel and the new experience we need to get into this environment, which is a little new to think, that it's calling us to use this method of further projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u90	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the answer. Of course, this is not our last year on this assignment. I'd like to take advantage of the opportunity to have a conversation with the highest level. Minister to discuss the private rights of a community. The Environment and Transport Committee is now reporting from the highest level. Minister, which includes the permission of Ministers to set ground rules for airports that walk beyond the organizational rights of rural society. For example, Reykjavík would simply be removed from his organization at Reykjavík's airport. It consists of a fundamental change in this which is contrary to existing laws and is an example in which general planning procedures can be turned aside by law. As far as I can see, the agreement between the state and the city is concerned with the future domestic planning. I'll mention it here in context of something else I'll come to. I have not seen any warning or opposition from the council of this particular intervention in the rural affairs. If anything, I've been happy to hear it. But there have been other issues that have been in the limelight during this terms exactly because of this same intervention, I am calling together a legal unit known to the minister, and then the Environment Minister on a high-regional park. There are members of the board of directors, e.g. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Transport and Regional Ministers, be among those who have criticized the intervention, and make a firm decision that a community's own decision needs to be respected. So I find it simple to ask for a full - sighted minister when it comes to the organizational affairs of rural society and the involvement of state and rural society. I don't want to believe that vision, and I'm just gonna say it the way it happens, depending on the community involved. But I'm also standing here as a council member of the Smokelands. I'm worried that this movie is about to blow up. I wish and hope to the highest. A minister can simply relieve me and others of their concern by considering matters in his brief time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u91	A respectable president. I'll have the President get two or three more minutes right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u92	President says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u93	It was a joke. It's a little simple to me, and I'm consistent. I've said that the discussion of planning procedures on air travel is a storm in a glass of water, and I'm standing by it. It is a organizational arrangement for all international airports. We're updating the law. The laws are for the adjustment of organizational laws, so they are more detailed, to explain what is being discussed. No one takes one side of one or any other community. On the other hand, and there may be an interesting point in this, people need to come together in a principle like this. So there is no one alone who can make decisions that have a very important public interest. That is exactly what happened after the storm of 2019. Then we set up a team of workers who found a way to cooperate with rural society and the state to build the line transport systems. [[Up front.]] We've just been through a recent adjustment of the airport organizational order at Keflavík. We did so with the State Department because the State Department has the organizational authority and the local rural communities. The same should, of course, be the general view of Reykjavík's airport, i.e. Reykjavíkurburg should have come here and said: Of course, we're not the only ones in this situation. This is the national airport, the centre of an international flight in Iceland. It's perfectly normal that there's something in a structured order and that all parties are involved, i.e. The state that treats this public interest and the local community agree on this and is not in a modest fight. [[Up front.]] No one is taking over from one person or anyone. They're writing out that it's a team, a team, and that you need to get along. The same thing I've said about the central highland park, that little rural society needs to be taken into account. So did I regarding legal matters in terms of community unity. [[Unitity of Uniting Partners.]] I said, "Okay." There's a lot of opposition here. With the minister's initiative, let's get everyone, insert the objective paragraph, try to achieve the benefit even if it takes a little longer. [[The president calls.]] So I was consistent all along.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u94	President got a little carried away.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u95	A respectable president. We're here on financial agenda, and it's time to get to the top. Transport and Regional Ministers. Clearly, during the financial era, the new development of transport activities will continue. The more uncertain phase is the maintenance of transport workers. Is a financial program expected to increase maintenance in the coming years or simply to continue with the same patches here and there, cutting out roads all over the country, miserable road maintenance, and tar - soaking roads, with all sorts of mess and destruction of vehicles? This has created a major problem in the rural regime by maintaining transport activities. Farmers find it difficult to finance their own projects and are slowly destroying the streets of their rural communities. There is a need for action in this area, and it is clear that the State needs to maintain the roads responsible for its community. They simply do not have money to maintain safe roads. Accidents don't just happen on the highway. Has a minister been planning to resist the collapse of rural roads? What plans does he already have to fix the cut - down road across the country, as well as tar - welding roads? Is it not time for us to use good material, make good roads, so that we are less dangerous and more secure?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u96	A respectable president. You're right next door. A senator that the road system is not just a government system. The road system is probably about 26,000 miles [26,000 km], of which half are in the care of the roadmaker. We know some analysis and assessments of their roads and what needs to be done in maintenance and even outsiders have identified it, such as the industrial organization in their reports, and we've been trying to deal with it here. Actually, the 13,000 miles aren't all of them with their rural communities, they're also with private partners, but the biggest part is rural roads. There have been some things we've been strengthening through strength systems, i.e. highland roads with large rural areas, which may be paths, should be built up as such. Besides, we've had some gray zones that are highways in urban areas and projects called divorce roads that are legal since 2010, and we've been working on it. I think this is originally from 2005 or 2006, and the road structure has actually had one-sided authority to move roads to the local community and then in some acceptable condition. This has been done since the last few years, we've been working it out. It is not acceptable to say that all this road system is responsible for the State. We know that once we're building a urban street system, they're paying for it, and they're paying real estate fees to maintain construction. Of course, rural society has the same amount of money to play. But let's admit it. A senator, that there are probably 40 times more per person here than in Germany to stand under the road system, and this is expensive.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u97	Thank you very much. Transport and Regional Minister for Answers. Of course, all of this is expensive, but security costs are also expensive, resulting from accidents. I'd like to ask you if there's anything in the future with the secretary of transportation for the construction of the Road of Kew and Explosion Land. If you go out and you start out again, I don't think I could afford to do something about it. I'd also like to know about the Sunway, don't you think she's just a dream of a can? It's not on this transport plan. There are dusts from her every once in a while, but as long as the city of Reykjavík is in power, I have no faith that the Sunwaters will be able to get to the ground. There will be some committee, arguing about the environmental issues and other factors. Then I ask if it's possible or it's too late to stop this billion city line that I think is the biggest mistake we've ever made on traffic because at the same time nothing is being done to make traffic easier in the city. They're supposed to squeeze her, and they're supposed to make things so much worse. So let's take the Breinholt Road and the miscreant pavilion that has existed since then, and they have finally come to a very big change in schedule. It is as if any traffic flow can not be fixed in Reykjavík, as is the case today, and the question is: Count the highest. Minister that there will be a project and something will be done to facilitate traffic in Reykjavík in the near future? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u98	Mr. President. Yes, I am convinced that the plans we have will improve the traffic flow dramatically in the capital area. The work of better transportation, which is a cooperation project of the Kingdom and six member groups, is clearly designed to do so. It's built up, so we're building up the infrastructure, we're building public transportation, and we're building a more diverse way of travel, i.e. gang and bike path and stuff. What we have seen from a new model of travel is that this is beginning to work. And, yes, I'm also convinced that we're starting the Sunway. She's come to a place where she hasn't been before. We have a common view of where it should lie, and we need to take the next steps, which are preparing environmental assessments, organizational changes, and completing this common vision. And just as it is added to the project of better transportation, we see that the total distance in the area is reduced and traffic security is increasing. I agree with what. A senator that transport progress should be evaluated in the quality of life and life, i.e. that we save people, that they not get hurt, that they not die in traffic. It is our aim with traffic security, and we should aim for zero vision in traffic accidents, just as we were able to aim for a zero view of the sea. We're gonna get there. We probably did not believe that this could happen at sea at the time, but we succeeded, and we can do so on the road as well. I can see that this is going to work. It's a big project, it's about to start, and it's going to be effective. [[The president calls.]] If anyone's gonna get in our way, then. Senator, we're just gonna volunteer in Reykjavík, and everyone's gonna be in it with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u99	A respectable president. We deal with financial programmes for the 2022 address2,226, with special emphasis on education, innovation, research, and knowledge articles. I'd like to mention that during the season, we have put special emphasis on science, research, culture, art, sports, youth, high school and university, and we have achieved goals that we thought were virtually impossible to reach. One of the goals we set for ourselves was to achieve the OECD goal of making money to the university level. We did it. We were going to expand our high school so that we would see a huge attendance at education, industry, and all research, and it's done. A respectable president. I'd like to review the language fields that come under me. I'd like to mention that the increase in the season to science and competitive funds has been 93% in the season. A major reason is that we have decided to invest in our people. We've decided to invest in people and invest in education and innovation. I am convinced that this investment will be very effective in the coming years, and we are very proud of how we have gone into all that environment. The same can be said of culture, art, sports, and youth. During this period the increase has been 25%. During the Covid period, we have been investing especially in culture and creative fields. We've resolved that we're going to get the culture through this. Therefore, we have gone to the level of income and have looked to the future to see that we can get through this. The same can be said of our high school. All frames have been raised in the chosen period by 24%. We have done this because we have felt that it was very important to promote all high school education. We've worked systematically to reduce elimination, and it's certainly happened during the season, and we're very proud of it. The increase into college is 14%. We heard that university needs to be financed more, and we got into it and can be very happy with how we have managed to succeed. Of course, when we consider the Kingdom plan, it is based on the fine foundation that we have created and look to the future. Our education system and all culture are the keys to an excellent society. We've seen that the communities that control these classes are generally better off, and that's why we've been making this investment and investing in the future. In the cases discussed, we have decided that it would be necessary to reevaluate to form a high school and university degree, based on real - life expansion, i.e. The students who enter the system, and it will be revised. The same can be said of the advancement of students. In this regard, we are now laying the final hand on suggestions. I'm very optimistic about all these lawsuits, they're growing up, and they've been doing it all the time and will continue to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u100	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this speech, which was all about the past. I am not surprised that this is because, according to the financial strategy presented here, if we read the tables on page 6. 156 and 157, there is no apparent increase in predicted education during the period covered by this strategy. This is quite surprising because yesterday we were accepting academic policy to ten years of age, but this plan covers half of the period of education. I've described earlier that I don't feel that this educational course is ambitious and vague, that I did not support it, and that it wasn't the middle tribe. She was kind of more like aisy. This may strengthen the view that there seems to be no raise in the five years, e.g. to live up to this academic policy. Number two, I don't see that there's money available for projects such as Icelandic education for foreigners or mother - to - child training. I don't see that there is room here to help people with all kinds of problems, learning problems, such as dyslexia, and so forth. So I'm not surprised to hear that. Minister should talk about the election period that's about to be over right now, it was such a great campaign. But what about the future, the highest. Minister, what about the points I gave you?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u101	A respectable president. Why should we review what has been done? That is because the actions speak. We have seen such an offense in this series of subjects that we have not seen anything like it. This knows why. A senator, and that's why he's worried about education. In education, all students in the country are taken care of. What are the pillars there? Yes, equal opportunity for everyone. That's what I'm talking about. A senator who objects that everyone gets equal opportunities? I don't believe it. That teaching is in the best order. We know that all the educational systems that are outstandingly teaching. And what have we been doing? We've been investing in new teachers, we've put hundreds of millions in it, with special emphasis on caring for the boys. This knows why. Senator. Yet he comes up here and doesn't think he knows anything. But our actions speak, and we see how we have acted in this way, that has been praiseworthy. That's why it wants to be. The senator is certainly not talking about it. Another factor that I would like to mention that I find very important in education is that we put our well - being in the background. We're thinking about our people. We know that if we are going to be successful in education, we need to be concerned about well - being. We end up in policy because we feel that it is very important for us to cover all school work, that we improve internal and external assessments of school activities. And the reason this all works out very well is because we've been funding this, we've grown all the frames. This knows why. Senator. It can be hard to face, but these are the facts. This is what we've done.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u102	V.E.G. President. It may be nice to look back, but the point we're discussing right now is a financial plan for the next five years. This is not a review over the last four years or so, but for the next five years. If this is the case, the school system should be placed in the top order, and if it is to ensure the well - being and the quality of the school, the funds must follow it. According to the schedule presented here, I again quote tables on page 24. 156 and 157, there's no increase in funds. It's hardly that, e.g. High school maintains sea, the colleges do this in a dollar number, so if we assume that there will be no inflation for the next four years, they may not even get a corner. There's been a lot of discussion about expanding access to college, which I'm very pleased about, i.e. that people with a greater education or a greater variety of educational backgrounds than before have the opportunity to attend a university. This also requires extra funds. So behind all the wonderful promises made by the Ministry of Education here, and apparently no one has stood in public squares and objected that the promises are beautiful, just aren't enough. If it doesn't follow the funds to push, e.g. Education in progress, it's going to be empty. Then it will be, as I said before, an empty accustom without any connection to reality if funds do not follow in order to implement it. They do not follow this plan, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u103	A respectable president. Like what? A senator knows that, of course, a national financial program is very special, and we've been expanding frames and they've continued, they stick, as I went over. I know it can be a little frustrating for you. A senator sees how we have developed these topic areas. [[Up front.]] A respectable president. Let's go over this for a minute. Let's just go over high school where there's been a 25% increase. Gonna go for it. A senator telling me that we haven't done anything? Of course, education builds on this increase. What we've been doing is ensuring money for the future and expanding the frames. Hv. A senator is absolutely aware of this, but he comes here and talks about some phrase. I insist that, as we've been doing this, we've been investing in our people, we haven't seen anything like it in a long time and it's stressful. A senator because we've been successful here. We're not just talking about it, just not at all. If we look, for example. At university, there is 14% development, 14% realism. Gonna go for it. A senator telling me that we haven't been doing anything? Of course, education is based on this fine foundation, looking to the future. We've been putting hundreds of millions in education and to support our people more fully.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u104	A respectable president. We are here talking about a decline of nearly 14% in donations for culture, art, and youth over the next five years. We had a word about this in similar circumstances, me and the highest. Minister, last October, in financial discussions. That's when they said the highest. Minister of Ministers these words, by permission of the President: ▪ Keeping donations for art and culture at that location is very important. [...] We're going to revise government budgets before the season ends, and I'm thinking of looking at this part further. So I'm disappointed that we don't see a change in this, and I want to enter the highest. Ministers depending on the cause.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u105	A respectable president. When we look at this topic, the grammatical project is one of the things we've done and that we've been finishing. It was one of the points we discussed and invested in and was mentioned in the government covenants. A few things are over. For example, we're completing the grammatical project, which is why we're seeing certain reductions there. But what we've been doing, also because of this special situation we've been in, is that we've been aiming at the budget and going up from year to year. I agree with what. A senator says that when the budget is completed before 2022, the culture needs to be maintained. That's my opinion. I'll keep her. I'd also like to mention that the government has been putting special emphasis on this topic field, as we shall see. We've seen a 25%-profile gain in the season. That's what we're doing. As we look to the future, these are the priorities we have been putting in order to form my category, the forwarding group, and the government. We have been putting money on this suit, and of course we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u106	Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. More culture. It is not expected to place funding in a new national stadium for the government's financial agenda for the years 2022◯26, or a new national game for the sport. V.E.G. A minister has appointed a team of workers to collect information on the requirements of workers who host international games and conventions and identify the needs of such branch construction. The results of the group are that no construction of this country meets the requirements for international or national games playing handball and basketball. It says that there is still little time for national soccer plans that did not seem to have been time - consuming in this program. So I'd like to ask the highest question. A minister whether it is advisable to put power in this structure and to place funds on this important project.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u107	A respectable president. We have been working on it, and we have been preparing very carefully for the development of an athlete's infrastructure. We've been given information on cost and investments. However, we have felt that this needs further preparation, and we see that the cost, in order to form in terms of soccer, is that we need to work with the city of Reykjavík. We've been working on just what we're going to do these days, how we're gonna split the cost between the state and the city, if she's interested in doing this with us, and the ministry is going to go right into it these days. It's my personal opinion that we should go to this infrastructure, and we want to do it, and it's been very good planning. We've done a great job taking care of the situation. We're on business with Reykjavíkurburg, and I hope we'll find out about that in the next few weeks. But I can also tell you what. A senator that takes time because we want to be careful about all the work we do in this. It just does. But this is very good work, and I am very optimistic that we will see a new national arena, even in the European Union, rising in the coming years. But this needs to be prepared, and that's what we've been doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u108	President. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of education and culture at the university. It's clear that there's going to be a growing college application for the next year, as is the custom when the job market is slowed down. Clearly, students of the university are shrinking back from the mental state that action by Covid has led to action, to offer students a wide range of study assessments, to increase access to student counselors and psychology services, and to respond to students who have failed to see that they are able to do certain things because they need to, for example, because they need to be able to do so. to care for their children at home. If the epidemic continues to exert such an influence within the college community, will this financial program be expected to take steps to meet freshmen who are going to rush into college in the fall? Do students who experience many of the fourth wave of the crown virus during their college years expect to be given financial support?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u109	A respectable president. They're asking about college. We decided in the government at the beginning of the season that we would invest at the university. We've increased budgets for that in the terms of 14% to real value. We've also decided, and we've been in it because of Covid-19, to increase access and finance for all students entering the system. We have been working with the university to see how we come to a greater degree under these special circumstances. The study evaluation has been flexible. We've worked on it with the Education, i.e. to lend loans for special units that students have completed. We have taken up summer studies and increased summer jobs so that we have set our young people as a special goal of reaching out because we know how difficult the challenge is for them. That is why we have been doing this work in a progressive way. So, yes, we have taken this into account in cooperation with the university level for study evaluation. What we have seen, of course, is that students have made better progress, both into our system and out of it in spite of these circumstances. This has happened because we have placed a lot of money on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u110	President. I thank the Minister for these answers. I would like to give special attention to the Art Institute. For a long time, it has been said that this is where living should be built up for the University of the Arts. I talked to someone who knew about the subject that had been promising it for about 20 years. Clearly, there is a great need for housing for the University of Art. For example, in this fall of high school fees, it is ironic that students have been limited to school, which is naturally wrong for many students in school. News reports last year revealed that a minister published that a new art university was on the table. A report published on March 16 of the past stated that such a project might cost some 133/414 billion, but a financial minister also published that such large projects would no doubt have to wait. Is the construction of new housing for the Art University in financial planning? If not, what are the following steps regarding the construction and funding of such facilities?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u111	A respectable president. In connection with the Art Institute and his plans for the future, we have been working on the purpose of making it possible for us to begin investing in a new art university. We've been studying a few options, and we've come to realize how much investment it is. It is clear to me that in order to plan for the future and to make further investments, we should cherish our new art university. We hope that by the beginning of June, we will have a final result of what steps will be taken in this regard. I think we'll see that the art university will be in better housing in the years ahead because of the work we've been working on. We decided to revise some of the factors, but we all work at close cooperation, Prime Minister, Economic and Economic Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, hoping that the final result will be reached at the beginning of June. But that still takes time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u112	Madam President. Thank you very much. A minister of great review of the big lines. I don't think in itself a reason to dwell on them here but would like to focus on less than that, because the beauty is often in the small, but in the large, the size of a little one can be very small. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on the fate and status of the Gardening School on Smoke. I know it's the highest. A minister has been considering these matters and has had opinions on how they are being placed. There is no doubt that the situation there has been, so people don't really know exactly what's happening that's not good enough about such an important operation. There we are dealing with the cradle of Iceland's gardening, gardening, and culture, and their progress. I want to go to the highest. A minister as to whether these matters are simply resolved, so that no one needs to worry about the Gardening School on Smoke, where this important operation will remain, and there will be continuing to rock. The leaders of the institutions of this country can be calm with it, and especially with the students there, and so with all of us, because I am absolutely convinced that part of the future we would like to pursue is just the structure of these articles and related articles, which I might come better after.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u113	A respectable president. The place on Smoke is good and it's gonna be good. We've decided that we're going to promote the work course and that the centre will be smoking. That's what we've decided. We've been working this thing with our gardening. We've called for increased cooperation and cooperation. We have also worked with the University of Agriculture. That's where we're going to promote innovation, research and evolution. We're going to improve our schooling to smoke, and it's very important. There is no need for anyone, not students or staff, to worry that we're not going to put our arms around smoke. This is clear to us, and we have worked at it and will continue to do so. There are a lot of important opportunities that involve domestic food production. We want to increase it, and we view the gardening school and all that activity as a key factor in promoting domestic food production. We've had a lot of work at the Ministry and in cooperation with Southland High School on how we're going to ensure the future. And I am confident that this will succeed, and we will see certain evidence of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u114	President. I'm cheering for those explicit words. The course must be smoked. It is an incredibly important message to send out from here to all of us who have the best interests of this vital operation. I may have wanted to spin the thread on where it's at the highest level. A minister released him and took a little advantage of his happiness because it was the highest. A minister is talking about this cooperation between different peoples when it comes to domestic food production I think is one of the keys to the future we want to pursue, which is exactly the building of domestic food production. This is in line with our wanting a sustainable future based on climate targets, the UN global objectives and food policies at the highest level. Governments have taken their place. I'm just finishing up and now making a motion for Congress resolution on food production and education department aquifers in this area where all the members as the highest level. A minister spoke of them as key ones in further forming these cluster thoughts on domestic food production and education related to them. I think that's how we should think about it. We are to think, " How can we educate people in our hideouts? ' How can we use land quality, especially in this area, to study and work, of course, to achieve this future in cooperation and cooperation with all schools, both at university, and especially at high school and in the fine work being done at Southland's High School? I want to, but I don't want to. Ministers have seen the matter, it comes, to know whether it agrees with me on this vision, and I will, of course, interpret it as support of my proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u115	A respectable president. I welcome this suggestion. Senator. It's very important. Of course, as indicated here, everyone has an opinion of what's going on at the Gardening School, and I think it's positive. I've gone to smoke and I've met students and staff, and we've told them in the Ministry that we have to invest even more in this area, and there's an recognition of improving our training. We'll see how Southland's Mountain School gets very strong into this situation. We also care deeply about the University of Agriculture, and we see for ourselves that he goes for a further application to innovation and knowledge than that his career is promoted by smokers and what is in them and in cooperation with the University of the South. I believe this kind of cluster policy and everything that has to do with sustainability in food production is the way around Iceland. We now see in Covid that there are so many opportunities that are also related to technical progress, how we can increase production, how we can create currency. I think we can move out rather than be moving in forever in as far as this is concerned. We all have these quality, all this nature, and we know that the job is great, and we're gonna take care of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u116	A respectable president. A government's vision of the future is most evident in its financial plan. In this regard, it is presented as the same education as last year, in itself, little material change. In effect, the unprecedented circumstances do not exist when financial programs are violated, at least As far as academic matters are concerned. V.E.G. A minister of education has been, as it were, the minister of large words, but words without money in politics may not be much to say. In the litigation categories that hear under the highest order. Of course, a minister of education, culture, and sports is not the key to finding in this financial program. Yet we know, e.g. that when unemployment is just as rampant as it is, the unemployment period of the population that is getting hit by the deepest blow is growing considerably, and people are searching for study. It costs, and I would be interested in hearing the highest viewpoint. Education minister on how to handle this in particular. The high school program is looking forward to a decline in the period. We're meeting this crisis with a degree education failure at the high school. Education does not seem to be the way out of the crisis according to financial plans and the figures in high school and high school there speak for itself. These high school positions may fit in well, for example. in the standard schools, which were knocked off for a year despite being mandatory by law. Governments are out of line when looking at basic schoolchildren' positions. Our system does not compare with the mechanism used for a concerted test in the North countries, and it has been in progress for a long time. I wondered how a minister will respond to this financial program and how she will secure the status of high school students and students according to financial figures. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u117	A respectable president. Like what? A senator likely realizes that the government has made a great increase in educational matters. We've made a tremendous contribution to education during Covid's lifetime. It knows why. Senator. I'm just gonna go over some numbers because it's really important when we're going into big business that we realize what they are. If we look at the university, we have gone from 46 billion to 52 billion. We have certainly kept big words and invested in the educational system. Eight o'clock. A senator is not prepared to view the investment we have made? We will continue. I can promise you what. A member of the Parliament, for the Agency will continue to invest in education. We have shown that we have the ability and ability to do so. I'd also like to mention that like a dog. A senator realizes that we will take into account the real - life expansion that has taken place both at high school and at the university. The numbers speak for themselves. There's potential, there's courage, and here's courage.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u118	A respectable president. I notice that the highest. A minister can refer to what the senators must recognize and must understand. But I'm not the only senator who comes up here and is simply looking into numbers. V.E.G. Education minister wants to talk about something that has been done before, but here we are simply, and the highest. A minister must realize that he is discussing the current financial program. The numbers there speak for themselves, and we must assume that they are correct. That's where the reality of the high school students is quite clear. I stuck to the schools in the first talk because they have a key role in a crisis. They can be a safe haven to students, and at the same time, our attendance out of the crisis. The government has been busy blowing up press conferences with good news. For example, a minister received an e.g. last November, the government approved a conference with Reykjavíkurburg on the next steps in the construction of a new national stadium, where a team has been established. I thought about it and would be interested in hearing it from the highest level. Secretary of finance how the funding of this national stadium looks according to the financial agenda. During this crisis, is the stadium part of the infrastructure? The other question is the culture, art, and sports work that we all know has been adversely affected by the limitations and the end. There's why. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson 14% decline from the budget. It's a cold message and a noise. I am deeply concerned about my cultural and artistic activities in those days. The fact is that these articles are among those who bear the weightiest weight for disease prevention. They were necessary, but they are heavy. I would have wanted the government to be more comfortable with these articles and would have wanted us to see some vision of the future and that we would see an opportunity and innovation in Icelandic culture in this financial program, e.g. On film and TV shows. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But I would be interested to hear about the stadium.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u119	A respectable president. Why are we reviewing what we have done and the increase that has taken place? That's because we're also saying that when we say we're going into a big hurry, we've been able to keep it. The same will happen today. We've had a lot of groundwork, I'm telling you, on the grounds of national gambling, for both the middle of the game and also the soccer. She's never been this far. I would also like to mention that in this program it is clearly stated about the students who have entered the system, of course, that it will continue to be financed. It's mentioned here in particular. We know that thousands have entered the education system, and that's why the government has made contributions. These things know the high school. This knows the university, and we have certainly stood by the big words. We wouldn't have all these students in our systems if we hadn't financed them in this way. We will continue to do so. Of course, the vision of the future involves investing even more in education and culture. We have shown that we can do so, and we will continue to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u120	A respectable president. We're discussing financial policy ahead. I sincerely hope that it was just a mistake with a minister of education when she opened her speech today and finished without any vision of the future of anyone who was disabled. Education is the key to the individual's work and happiness. The policy of survival, the national network of motorists, in the educationalities of the disabled, is summed up in this, by permission of the president: The diagnosis, training and training should be initiated by an individual's disability. The parents of disabled children are to be counselled. Everyone should have an opportunity to attend school. All schools must be accessible to disabled persons. There should be adequate training and training for those who are trained and trained. Special schools should be associated with other schools. The potential for a disabled person to be educated/re-educed is guaranteed. Clothes are for academic and professional advice. I'm asking the highest. Education Minister: What is the vision of the future in the affairs of disabled individuals? Is it clear? Are you going to board your sleeves and make it up to 2026 to put these matters in order that we can be proud of that system and that the disabled are in the same position as those who are set aside for education? Then I'd also like to ask, " Is the situation of disabled children now in the Covid epidemic because their disorder has become intense and, in many cases, a more difficult problem than for others? '
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u121	A respectable president. As a matter of fact, it was very enjoyable yesterday when we were accepting a new education policy, that one of the first and most important support there is that there is equal opportunity for all. I want to tell you what. In this epidemic, we at high school have placed special emphasis on career courses and the ability of disabled students to get to school. It is a pleasure to report that students and headmasters in schools where career courses are always put special emphasis on disabled students in the more than 100 meetings I have had with the school community. We have also considered opportunities and how we can further study with disabled children and young people because the setting we have disabled persons actually shows, I would say, what kind of community we are. If there is not equal access to education in the country, that is not a good witness. As Minister of Education and Culture, I have given special attention to the opportunities of everyone and we have put extra funds into the education system, and have been particularly increasing in this category.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u122	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister of education and cultural culture for the answers and accept what she said and sincerely hope that we are taking it in the right direction. Likely, the most effective preventive measures have affected high school students. Its formative years are stained with disease prevention, and this may affect the lives of these children in the future. Has a minister been planning to examine the impact of a high school disorder on the spirituality of children, their social formative, and their academic careers? Does a minister think that any action will be required in the years ahead to prevent these children from becoming a missing river walk later in life? We know that Covid has caused quite a disturbance to our young people and children in the educational system. Therefore, there must be a clear policy on how to deal with the spiritual well - being of these children as well as the future education. We know that, for example, it is now. Unscheduled tests. Somehow, we need to find the balance of gold in the Covid epidemic, so we can take particularly the sensitive ones most likely to blow out of school and therefore are at risk of future trouble and even becoming desperate in our society. Therefore, we are under obligation to try to make sure that everyone is educated and helped to learn as needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u123	A respectable president. We have put special emphasis on young people and have been investing and raising money into high school and university levels precisely on the subject. A senator mentions, i.e. whether we're talking about a lost generation. I just want to tell you what. A senator of the fact that we've been on the watch from the very beginning, from the beginning of the season as well as when Covid came. Why? Exactly because we have to make sure there are opportunities. We have opened up our educational system and received thousands into our systems so that we do not have individuals for the future who have somehow failed to find ourselves in our systems, and that is why we have gone into this investment. I'd also like to mention that we've been tracking elimination at high school and the same at college. We've had a lot of cooperation with students, and we've been a driver and a schoolmaster to see exactly what the situation is, and it's a pleasure to report less elimination. On the other hand, we realized this, and of course, yesterday was an example, that we are limiting our school activities, and then, of course, we feel a lot of pressure. That is why we have been supporting more fully in all psychological services and other aspects of supporting more fully our educational systems.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u124	A respectable president. Budgeting is a policy plan for how the Ministry intends to protect the financial resources of the environment in the most successful way in the community. The Ministry of Justice is responsible for the courts, public security and rights of individuals, but the two above are not much under the Ministry of Presidency. Looking out of the planned period, there is very little change in budget sheets from current financial and financial programmes. This is especially true in the case of courts and the language fields of rights. A contribution to the establishment of a common housing building for all the operators in the capital area is still expected and due to the extension to 2026. As explained in the current financial program, there is a housing for the governor and the sheriff in the capital area, the Landland Guard, the customs guard, the Emergency Line 112, the Landsbuster and the Head of the Fire Department of the capital. The initial analysis of the project has now been completed, and this financial program expects the total funding of the project. It is expected that the overall size of the home could be up to 26,000 square metres and that the global work and work environment in Iceland will be changed for the better. The main focus of the Ministry for the past few years has been to further increase the safety and quality of the service level in search and rescue with clear targets and measures and establish electronic transport across the institutions of the justice system, focusing on effective and safe service procedures. The law has been greatly enhanced in recent years, or 6,3 billion dollars. During 20142019 on the price of each year. Thereby, contributions are increased due to funding on the border security based on the Schengen team, responding to increased pressure on the law on tourists, the treatment of sexual fractures in the justice system, promoting activities against organized crime, and promoting activities against money laundering. The course that has been established and carried out by the police will continue to be carried out in accordance with an approved law enforcement program. Despite the delay of the purchase of three new helicopters for the National Reservation Guard, funding has been provided to have three recent and massive rescue helicopters in the full operation of the Gestun, and the third will soon be added to the fleet at the end of the next month's match. It replaces the helicopter of TF-Long, who has served the country with great success for many years. With new helicopters and the increasing number of helicopters, the ability to react has increased, and the Agency has made better use of its own surveillance role. It is then assumed that the airport shelter at Reykjavík's airport will be enlarged and the current building will be torn down. Thus, the shelters maintenance and storage of the current and future VLA fleet. Then there have been situations that need to be addressed and that are not expected in a financial program, such as buying a new ship, Lady. The main focus of the Ministry for the past few years on the language fields of individuals has been to strengthen electronic infrastructure with the aim of improving citizens' services and the use of financial resources through increased digital management and interactive information. The result is that there will be a review of events. There's been an operation on a digital court-martial at the Ministry last seen a loss. The main focus of the project is that the data of the validation system will be accessed digitally, across institutions, safely. A high priority is to provide access to all data as soon as it is available and to minimise travel between institutions by providing a reliable route for data and information. First, the main focus is that the data flow between strains and later into the system and is designed to provide visual and traceability as well as access to the external bodies of the system in order to send in and receive data and monitor future events. This can greatly increase confidence in the system, shortening the time of treatment and useful information as well as, of course, improving the use of the funds in the system. It may be fun to find that the Court's Court's Court Court's Court's Court of Justice has been referred to in the Icelandic Job Awards. It is clear, then, that after this project is taken, and in general, this is a major step in Icelandic legal systems, such as other digital revolutions and the large investments involved in this financial program.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u125	Mr. President. I thank the Minister for the excellent review of this lawsuit. I have a few questions because, as with other cases, there does not appear to be an absolute increase in the subject field. Minister. I've noticed that instruments at Keflavour Airport have been greatly improved following Schengen-out and improved there. It is clear, however, that the border law has recently been under severe stress and will be predictable, not just during the time of Covid, but thereafter. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers, although not seen in this financial program, plan to promote activities on the police border and how, if not, an increase in funds. I would also like to ask the highest. Minister, because she speaks of expanding or living in the airport at Reykjavík International Airport, and now the mayor, who now lives in the city of Reykjavík, is standing firm against the city of Reykjavík, and who wants to press on to the extent possible: Er, U.S.A. Don't Ministers rush to invest much in this airport, to air - conditioned activities when the mayor is as opposed to hostile airports and air traffic - as is true?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u126	A respectable president. An increase is not the only standard we should have in financial planning, but an improved service, what we get for our financial resources, and what we need to maintain our priorities. Technology changes result in a greater use of money and a greater amount of service. Because the border is specifically referred to, we have made a great contribution to it, including some of them. by Schengen, which took place in 2017. It will take place again next year, but we've completed all the action required there. It will then be determined whether we have achieved the desired result in the next year. This has been very well controlled and prioritized to these matters by providing large financial support to the police where the emphasis has been, as stated earlier, the border defense, a sexual abuse plan, action for tourists, and so forth. With regard to the National Guard and the cloud at Reykjavík's airport, it is divided to expand the cloud and it will be built so that it can be transported. But it is clear that Reykjavíkur Airport will be there some time before a new airport will be ready. There is no way to offer the weekend service to the end of this shelter for the fine helicopter that will be available here at the next month's convention.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u127	Mr. President. I agree very highly with the highest. Ministers to the National Guard need better facilities for maintenance. True, a minister says that if such a situation exists, it is possible to flee with the cloud. But I hope this shelter will be more likely to secure the airport and the operation there. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers to another group of cases under which they hear that it has been a major financial factor, and this is the matter of foreigners and inmates. That group of paintings has been very much out of the budget for the past few years. We are in that position, Icelanders, to receive a far greater number of prostitutes and dignitaries for international protection than the next neighboring nation will remember a great deal. These neighboring nations are now under the control of a soci order that, at least in two places, they are intensifying all activity and intensifying the number of refugees and those who apply for international protection, which will indeed increase the pressures on the borders of Iceland. The question, then, is this: Does it seem reasonable for a minister of Iceland to receive a far greater number of agencies that are falling than our neighboring nations? They have decades of experience that they are finally learning from, as they now carry out their actions. Would a minister in some way use a legal system to address these matters so that both the funds of the state and the humanitarianities needed to prevail in the seminary?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u128	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. With regard to the funds that go to this party, it is a little unpredictable and difficult to plan ahead for how many people are looking for international protection. A decision has been made to finance the financial expenditures rather than overexploit money, and it is therefore difficult to estimate its length of time. The aim has been to do well and thus arrange for the rapid treatment of the situation. This has been accomplished by the priorities that take less than a month now to an expedite. We've managed to shorten the treatment period in the past few months. Here is a bill at the council that makes our regulations comparable to all the countries around us regarding a particular group looking for international protection. Of course, we need to be absolutely clear that those who seek international protection and are entitled to do so are fleeing from persecution or inhuman treatment, are not protected, and are being treated in this material, will receive international protection if they meet conditions, no matter how many there are. So our system must be equipped to deal with and respond to that group sooner. That's what we do, for example. with the legal adjustments I have made to put in more priorities, the issues that generally lead to negative conclusions so that we can speed up all court treatments and work properly toward this class in all directions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u129	Mr. President. I'd like to discuss the affairs of foreigners, inmates, and those who come to us for international protection, but probably from just another point of view. paritaprevir It's Sæmundsson's stone. I see that in the financial program that we are discussing today, financial contributions to the court of individuals, religion, and the government of the courts are to take their place, but under that category, the question team of 10. Similarly, the last funds we discussed here were assumed to be the same, that the funds that should take place in the affairs of foreigners were to be replaced. On October 7, however, the issue of a 2025 financial program was presented in the highest court. Minister of Justice, if I were to quote it, by permission of the president, that it was absolutely clear that the security force that has been taken from the Foreign Institute and is specifically defined, would have increased and would always have to increase the budget to the level of increased service. We see that this year and last year the service is more than expected, since more people are waiting for a conclusion. I'd like to get out from the top. Minister of Justice: Where are the funds to join this group? And why is there no increase expected, either in the last budget or in the financial plan for the next five years, whether it was for an institution that is below the highest level? A minister who is a Foreign Institute and then for increased services, housing and housing with the Agency on his own, or other services to people who are looking for international protection are well made and to our credit? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u130	A respectable president. As I said before, this is an unpredictable group, and it is difficult to estimate in advance how many people are looking here. Last year, quite a few people looked here, e.g. Two years ago. A decision has been made to finance real expenses, such as at the end of the year. A senator noted that if necessary, the hospice may especially increase to financial aid, as indicated. This will be considered in the following financial contributions if we underestimated how much money was needed to care for the services that we offer them waiting for an answer to international protection. That's the way it's been arranged, and it just seems like it's okay in that way. It is difficult to estimate this, but at the same time as we can see that there were only fewer searching for them, e.g. More international protection last year. Of course, all the costs of the situation need to be adjusted, that there are international protections that meet those requirements.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u131	A respectable president. It was shown in a case of the highest order. The minister of justice in the past to suggest that any rise in law - enforcement issues might be attributed mainly to an increased naturally inevitable border control and an increased emphasis on dealing with sexual abuse, which is also inevitable but certainly praiseworthy. I've had a place to say before. Ministers on the design problem of the police and especially on the scattered areas of the country, where many residents have to cope with the fact that there is a long way to go to the police, which does not really meet minimum demands on the level of service to be held in each rural society. The planned decrease of the work week will be added to a special problem, i.e. that by the shorthand, the number of policemen needs to be increased, and when it is already advertised. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of Justice: Where is the funding to make sure that this increase is possible? This proved true in October last October, and in view of more, it was discussed as being needed but the lack of extraction. I'm asking the highest. Minister on when that expansion is to be expected.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u132	A respectable president. You're right next door. A senator, but there is also clear objective in a national law enforcement program on waiting hours and on the situation of the police. The legal program is vastly wide, taking care of all these factors to ensure full - time service of all the people here with the police. There is, of course, a situation for the police around the country, a time of response, and a clear process, as I explained in the talk. It is also one of the priorities of increasing money to the police in recent years. It is true that the number of police is being increased because of this situation, and this funding will come from the general financial financial reserve. It's been guaranteed. The transfer is being done with the police. For May 1, the complete implementation of these factors and the cost to be met will be available. What is missing after the work being done will be funded from a reserve.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u133	President. Even on the topic area of the courts, however, there is no question about it. that the primary objective is to establish a secure state to the courts. The main focus on financial programmes is the same as to strengthen electronic infrastructure. I don't fully understand how they stress that everyone in Iceland should have the right to a court of law. According to the Gallup survey conducted on January 14 to February 15, 2021, 31% of those polled said that they had little confidence in the judicial system and that 23% had little or no trust. The percentage of men with great confidence in the judicial system was 51% versus 40% of women, while 40% of men considered themselves familiar with the function of 29% of women. There was also greater confidence in the court system in college, and when family income was 1,250,000. or higher. It follows that there is more trust where family income is higher, for it takes money to appeal to judicial matters, and it takes tremendous amounts of energy and energy from individuals. There are a number of cases that never enter courts, either in which individuals feel that they do not trust the court in the case or that there are days left with the police, so there is no investigation, so there is no scathing. I would like to ask you how the money marked by the earmark of the Court should increase the public's confidence in the judicial system.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u134	A respectable president. I think there's a lot of things that need to come into this picture when we talk about growing confidence in the system. One of them is a follow-up of the treatment plan for sexual fractures within the justice system. In the follow-up that is regularly reviewed, e.g. that despite the significant increase in the number of cases set up at the police level and in the district attorney, it has been successful to speed up the period of treatment. Before New Year's Eve, there were only two cases waiting to be done, which were over a year old, and there was a definite step in completing them to show people that the system works, that they do not have to wait too long for their results. They also matter to all the bills I've put forth here, whether in order to address the level of violence that violates sexual privacy or siege or the bill that is in consultation with a mischievous position. I have strong hopes that everything will strengthen this and trust people's faith in the system. There's more to go. To cope with these issues, the police have increased in number, and the trial has been shorter. Hv. A senator mentions the electronic infrastructure, how it affects this subject. The electronic infrastructure will give people better access to the system, faster information, more transparency, and I think there will be improvement and confidence that people will see where it is, that they can access the data immediately and can monitor the situation. I think there's one part of a very many factors that need to come in. Follow-up of the Action Programme is a major part of the work and change in the legal frame that strengthens the level of infringements of various acts of violence. I think it's gonna play the whole thing. The court hearing is one of the things I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, but all the funding that has generally gone to the police on these matters is, of course, an improvement. I know there's a lot of work to do, and it's not just these things that will trust and guarantee people's faith in the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u135	President. I appreciate those answers. It's always nice to ask what money goes on, but I just want to ask what seems to be a legitimate savings in the system. Hv. paritaprevir In the fall, the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson asked if there was anything on top of it. Ministers to promote the Foreign Institute with money so that the Agency could better carry out its role and reduce the scope of this list. I'd like to ask again in view of the fact that there is now a change in foreigners, where the word "separation" is very often found. The efficiency, however, involves making the system more inhumane and able to throw people out of a country that has not been individually assessed by the law to simply say: '-' - by permission of the President. Do the minister of this estimated inhumane treatment of candidates for international protection feel justified in raising the effectiveness of the Foreign Institute rather than improving the welfare of a foreign agency to offer humanable treatment and effective treatments for the individuals in need of its services?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u136	The President reminds us that the matter is Icelandic, and it is easy to translate sentences as such.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u137	A respectable president. It's simply wrong. Senator. Everyone in our system gets an individual assessment. All will receive an individual assessment of whether they will agree with the definition established in the European Convention of Human Rights to need international protection, whether or not they will receive prior treatment or chemotherapy. That's what always goes on. In line with the number of cases at any given time, the number of cases can always be increased and the number of lawyers reduced. There is room in the system to adapt to the need, depending on how many people are looking for international protection. But, of course, I disagree. A senator's view that the word "efficient" often comes is not a rule of the bill. Well, efficiency is a great deal of humanity. It is humane that people who receive international protection get an answer sooner and can adapt to Icelandic society, but it is also humane to receive an answer and not to wait for an extended period of insecurity, even if the answer is negative. In general, these issues are as valid. A senator refers to cases where members have been protected elsewhere. The bill offers the option, especially by means of a new arrangement, that they can request leave on welfare grounds. Since there is no European country with comparable rules, we have seen an enormous increase in this group here, which generally leads to negative results. To speed up the treatment of those who get negative results in our system, it is wise to improve the service and speed of treatment for those who get positive results but to wait too long for that conclusion to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u138	A respectable president. The duration of treatment has been in the dough for a long time, including for discussion in this room. Recently, when news of a special assignment was received from the Justice Minister on the matter - treatment period for dealing with economic offenses, the court officials received the political notice. Of course, that work is good, and it does not have anything to do with it. However, this problem applies to all category of offenses, and it's a fairly special message to include a whole different category of offenses than the one most under discussion on this problem. You see, judging for a serious sexual offense is still regularly softened at the point of appeal because it has drawn into the system. All arms of the system must have the means to work fast without giving a discount of the quality. This problem is most significant in cases where heavy judgments fall, such as the one taking the lead. in rape cases and in cases involving sexual abuse of children. It is normal to watch all the fractions appropriate. Economics are certainly not alone, but they are not. The sex violations are at the top of the system, but this is the case. Many good things have been done, and especially by the system itself, square statues, etc. But there is only a slower judgment on the matter - this is not to be taken into consideration by the interests of society in the past, in the interests of violations, and in the interests of society. This is happening and is part of our reality today. It is extremely difficult for the toleration to wait long for answers, and the courts are aware of the defendant's human rights in this regard. The Independence Party has been doing this service for seven years, and all this has been the situation. I had this conversation with the secretary about the last financial plan and I've had it before. [[The president calls.]] This financial agenda, it seems to me, small changes, and I have to admit that it's a big disappointment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u139	A respectable president. How wrong it is. It's set up by a senator. This is exactly the language in these matters, which has been of particular importance since 2018 when a sex - treatment plan was presented in the justice system. The first task was to promote and increase levels. There was an increase of 15 national standards, and the chief police officer in the capital area received most of them. This has, of course, been in priority especially, and also efficiency and success in shortening the duration of the treatment, including with this increase in levels and a number of other changes. The Ministry has regularly called for information about the speed of the speech in these matters, and it has been found to be a good shortcut. In short, the evaluation of the offices is that since this additional amount of money has been gained and obtained, pressure has increased. The number of cases has increased, and we have sometimes seen an increase of up to 50% between the years in the office, especially in the local district attorney. It highlights the rapid, reliable, and last positions received by the Ministry are just two cases waiting to be paid once a year, and all others are younger. I agree with what. A senator on the importance of shortening the duration of treatment, and this has been in strict priority over other lawsuits often because of the clear action program set forth under the Independence Party in the Ministry of Justice, which has been very closely followed in the past year. We will continue this course. In fact, we've gone beyond a legal protocol plan, e.g. of siege and sexual immunity, but in particular the importance of working on a sexual immunity bill, breaking it, so this is a success. We're not nearly done here. We know that we need to get even more effective in this category, and there will be a follow-up of the Action Programme that will continue to be a top priority as seen in both the financial resources and the digital program that this case will address. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u140	The President looks like the best. Minister and minister. Councilmen on timelines.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u141	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of Justice answers, but I do not fully understand her statement that what is presented here is wrong. I'm pointing to the highest. The Minister of Justice is to read recent court decisions in the land. I am well aware that much good has been done within the system. I am also aware that the weight of the language is growing and that people there are working well. But the situation is that this happens quickly and will not stop. The case may be described as being unable to give explanations, but the answer is not much more complex than the number of cases and the system needs more support. In fact, we can see it more in the system, e.g. ... indiscriminate. Condemned men wait for months, and sometimes for years to be executed. So judgment has a warning effect, you need to be able to do it quickly. We will also see that there is an end to judgment. What does that mean? The effect is that there is no need for anyone to serve out a sentence given to them. That's why it's the highest. The minister of justice is now offering suggestions to expand their community service, which will take them up to two years in prison. This is so as to shorten the number of long - term service lists to prisons. In fact, there are waiting classes on the side of the government in prisons. I think that's telling us that the system's really having a hard time trying. To say that, the idea of community service is good and I'm rooting for it. In this context, however, it does not attack at the root of any problem. Rather, it cut back on all too long a witnessing list in a prison that has grown so long that judges literally grow old. Even if I'm supporting the idea of community service, I'm doing it in a broader context. I would like to see that judges are authorized to judge her. But it seems to me that this is what we're talking about in the matter of treatment times, that waiting lists are a real problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u142	A respectable president. I said it was quite wrong that because of work to speed up economic treatment, it was being put in more priority than the case of sexual abuse, which has been in clear priority since 2018 with a new strategy. I told you it was so wrong. I know what the situation is. I'm fully informed about the position we don't want to see, that judgment will be weaker on the system. That's what we're attacking with increased funding in these matters. Not only must the root of the problem but also the tail are we doing about the list of Kingdom proclaimers in prisons, very clear and specific suggestions for increased community service, the better use of our prison locks, and the favor of those who have waited for more than three years and who have not been wrong since, because on that basis there is also a penalty. We see too many judgments expired, a few in a year, and we destroy the warning principles we want to be punished. That is why I have worked for this much work, to shorten the list of Kingdom publishers, and even if it is later, not the root of the problem, we need to do both. Today, our prison space is quite well up for those sentenced to punishment each year, but it has increased in recent years. I think me and what. A senator can agree that there must be a good follow-up to a child - abuse program. We need to be careful about the speed of words and increase them. A digital trial will be one of the main points discussed in this financial programme. Then, too, the list of preaching should be shortened because waiting is a punishment. That way we can fix the system from all over the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u143	A respectable president. We're still covering budget to 2026, and I'd like to ask the highest level. Minister of Justice to that. The goal was to include e - mail messages. I'd like to know how that job works. Has this work been put first in view of the benefits it would be to be able to report data electronically rather than have to be on time for the pandemic? In the autumn financial program, there was a goal to improve the period of judicial hearings. It is estimated that this year the treatment period will be 300 days and less than 12 months for national rights and less than 12 months for the Supreme Court. What is the situation today, and has Covid set a line in mind in this regard? Have courts added emphasis on the induction of distant solutions to ensure disease prevention and control of dysfunction? The fall's financial plan established a goal for the year 2025 to be a priority response time of less than ten minutes. It was also noted that prior to the end of the year, response time measurements are being conducted in the districts of the country. What is the situation of this assignment? Any tests? What is the situation when it comes to design? How close we are to the objective that by 2025 an EMP will be available and humanised to deal with 90% of priorities in F1 and F2 and 70% in priority category F3 and F4.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u144	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator in particular asked about e-mails. I don't think I've asked so many questions in the Ministry since I got there: What is the situation of e-mails, and when is this going to happen? This, of course, will involve a tremendous amount of money for our community and the ministry we offer. There we are seeing a service that can sometimes take weeks today, hopefully just a few days, only a few seconds, with a huge profit for the rest of the community that can study more than a billion dollars. This is finally happening this year. An electronic canceling of 42% of the documents has begun. The banks are now hacking into that system, starting to use these electronic statements and the first step towards full electronic interpretation. Thank you. A senator for this particular thing. This will ensure considerable improvement for the common people because the present system is aggressive and heavy, and the waiting is often long and costly. However, this will also increase the scope of the entire county and give them the opportunity to set priorities differently. This has been shown by a new report that will soon lead to the council on the future vision of the politicians I have published. Hv. A senator introduces two other things regarding judicial hearings, of course, which are a constant challenge. Covid has taken a little action into account, but with regard to the police plan, the follow-up is clear. In many cases, we're getting this down, not all of us. It's a state police officer who does this follow-up and regularly examines it and does those measurements. Police authorities have also come in strong, since we're insured, hopefully soon, with a bill of changing police law, where the consultation and coordination of all the police departments in the country have greatly increased with that arrangement.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u145	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of Justice for this information. I agree with her on e - mail statements; it will be like a step forward. We all know that it has had to, especially as it used to be, to do it ourselves. Happily, that is not very common. But there's something else I hope that is also in her vision, and that's what we've done before, and that's what we've been through and about the uptitration of funds into damage laws, i.e. to be updated according to the pay sheet and to reflect the salary and income of those who have an accident so that they can get as real as possible. I hope so very, very soon. I hope, if the Minister remains in the government, this will not be postponed for the next four years. It was only during this ideal period of action, but it seems that it did not work out. Then there's an application for those who can't fight the system, both the state system and insurance companies; I'm asking if there's anything up to it. And then there is what we've also discussed: How is it possible to see that personal information, very sensitive medical information, in juries, and that it is not commercially available?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u146	A respectable president. Updated funds into damage laws. The total damage laws have been updated, both on the factors as well as others. I think the project is that it's more like our community, like ours. A senator brings up the matter of pay religion, as well as the rights and damages of children's rights. There's something we need to look at and have been working on, but we haven't been able to finish and we're a lot of work. But I expect it like hell. A senator, that such a passage will soon be completed. However, the tablets have a consistent review. Then there is the personal protection, which is of utmost importance in publication. We've taken specific judgments. The task is not finished. It has not only been a rule but also a rule of instruction. This situation has been ignored if people are published by other courts and are reported by such officials if there is a security problem with the publication of a sentence, such as when other pages are published. Then people will be informed if there is a problem with security and those people who have published the judgments now respond to such announcements and corrections, which is very important and were not previously correct. The Court's office has published clear rules that should try to better prevent this. We must constantly maintain this to the courts and have done a great thing in recent years. I think this change in security failure is directed to private companies. It is not enough to fix the court's Web site. It must be done in other places where things are published because we must, of course, be careful that there are personal protection issues and that personal information is not attributable to judgment wherever they are published.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u147	A respectable president. Here we will discuss the issues of financial programs 2022 place for health care. Health costs are the highest perks during this schedule, but they are only 31% of the budget budget budget budget. There have been a large increase in health production during the election season, making donations for management at least 267 billion dollars. in the year 2022. Investment budget, i.e. Work, also weigh heavily on the health part of the programme, becoming about 27 billion in 2022. About 19 billion dollars. The amount of money will be put into medical investments during the year 2022, but in 2017 the largest part of projects due to the construction of a new Hospital on the Circle Road will be explained. The Covid-19 epidemic has stressed the protection of community infrastructure and the protection of the success achieved during the terms of health and health costs. This financial plan is also determined by that emphasis. It can therefore continue to highlight the level of health care. I mention a few things that focus on health issues: a. NLSH: The building of a new hospital is a huge project that is focused on funding financial programs. The budget of 2021 serves as 12 billion for the work. Under budget, some 14 billion will enter the building in 2022, over 15 billion in 2023, and similar amounts annually to 2026. A total of over 70 billion in the construction of a new hospital during a financial program. There is more to be done on construction projects ahead. The accumulation of treatment core is initiated and will be completed in 223. Other houses on the site are in the load, such as laboratory houses and two parking lots. It is important that we continue with a new hospital, but the new construction will be a revolution in health care and will completely change the entire hospital situation for the benefit of employees, patients and caregivers. b. Grensás: Next, we have a building on the Grensás, which is also fully funded in financial planning. On budgets of 2021, 300 million were under way for the construction of Land Hospitals at the Grensás, and 200 million in 2020. The task is long time and will greatly improve the facilities for the rehabilitation of Grensáx. Current housing is almost 50 years old and hardly meets modern standards for hospital service. More than 30 rehabilitation units are expected in 2 24 hours, and all facilities will be exemplary. The construction process is funded in financial programs, but in the years 20223/42024 there are 2.4 billion earmarks, all of which cost a total of 2.9 billion dollars. c. Other projects: There are also important projects in the country. In Akureyri, there will be two clinics to replace today's needs and new departments are scheduled to be built at the Akureyri Hospital. Selephoss is preparing to repair the hospital, as well as repairs of the facility, and in Smokenestown, preparations are beginning to be made to repair the health care facility at the Southnesian Center and build on a new clinic. e. patient support: It reduces 800 million. K. This year to 2025, which has decreased by 3.2 billion over a period of financial planning. During the 20200/2021, patients had been reduced to 1.1 billion dollars. Hence, the overall reduction was 4.3 billion. magazines, starting in 2020. It has been my goal to ensure that the payment rate of Icelandic households from health costs will be comparable to what happens best in the Northern countries. In 2018, an average health cost of 15.2% of the population of Northern Nations, the latest above the national average, was taken by the North American population. The financial strategy suggests that the percentages of Iceland will be reduced to 13◯14% in 2025, and our goals on equal pay ratios and other parts of the North countries will be set up in port. It will be a huge stage, but the reduction in payment is the largest and most important equation action the Government of Katrín Jacobs' Jakobsdóttir has taken during the season of election. Finally, I want to mention mental health. While I have emphasized the growth of mental health care, total donations to mental health have increased by over 1.1 billion since the government began. This increase has resulted in a greater degree of mental - health care and mental - health care, to name just a few. The budget for mental - health services goes up by 100 million each year. K. Since the year 20222/2025 and by the end of 2026, there will be an increase in mental - health status, a total of 1,555 billion will be observed. K. The details I have considered here in short, reflect the focus of the government during this terms, and it is likely to be emphasised, too, in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u148	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister to this snare. The last financial program provided funds to improve and expand housing because of the legalization department at the Grensás Hospital. I heard a lot of things. As a result, the minister said, and it is a great pleasure that these projects are finally under attack and completed. What I'm thinking about is other rehabilitation institutions. I mention Kristunes and Smokey Hygiene and Holga, where rehabilitation includes all medical resources aimed at restoring mental, physical, and social skills or maintaining human functioning and preventing further impairment. Resuscitation is based on the patient's active involvement and the cross-cutting cooperation of professional subjects in which key topics are physical therapy, industriousness, social therapy, nursing, medicine, psychology, and speech. Rehabilitation is part of the general services of hospitals, but it is also given in these rehabilitation institutions, and that is why I am slightly subtracting them. Of course, I'm glad we don't attack and finish on the Grensás. But I'm a little curious about these other institutions that are as important as I feel if we're just going to think about building up in one place more than another when we take over the whole country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u149	A respectable president. I know we what we're doing. A senator shares interest in the rehabilitation and construction of the area around him. In the past, our relations at the council have shown the importance of setting a realistic rehabilitation policy for the Icelandic health system and the procedures on the basis of it, and this has been done. These include construction at the Grensás, where 13 rehabilitation rooms will be raised in the current area and 19 in the new building to a total of 32. But the need is increasing rapidly, such as during the pa·rou·siʹa. A senator points out, in combination with significant improvement in the treatment of serious diseases and injuries. Near 50 years of age, the Grensás is almost 50 years old and does not measure up to modern standards that are lacking in basics. There has already been a great preparation for early design, where all training facilities and treatment space will be exemplary, and the building will have the complete facilities for rehabilitation there and, by means of a rehabilitation program in the Icelandic medical system. Thank you. For example, for example, a senator mentions a share of smokeloaf, which in many respects has been a burden for rehabilitation services in Iceland. I think it is very important that there is increased cooperation between the Grensáss and the Smokenund in the rehabilitation policy that we have now agreed on and started, but not as much as the conditions for rehabilitation as well. A senator, both in the north and in the Whos. All of this needs to be made up of one continuous network, but primarily the ideologies need to be part of all health care, ranging from health care, and through our most complex hospital services.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u150	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I agree with the highest. The minister that ideologies of rehabilitation must surround all the health services we offer and accept in this country. I'd like to move on with this question. Last January 18th, I received information from the good research services of the Parliament that according to the health insurance of Iceland, 240 individuals under 67 years of age had been in nursing homes in 2020. The age was divided into these groups: 213/430 years of age was one; 31◯40 years of age were three; 41 properly treated were 1,111560 years of age, 78, 61◯66 years of age were 145. That's a total of 240 individuals. Rest space is said to be 72. I'd like to ask the highest. Healthcare Minister, with regard to previous questions and answers, whether and how to meet these individuals in the coming years. Is there enough money for the nursing homes where these 240 people live so that they can fully support practical rehabilitation, saying that ideologies should surround the whole medical system?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u151	A respectable president. Thank you. For example, a senator mentions the group of nurses who serve as nurses but who are younger than those usually in nursing homes. It is a group that need more often than not a very specialized service, and more often than not, the services need to be very individualized and often very mixed and cross-cutting. We've had the goal of making specific rehabilitation for young nursing patients. They are on the farm and are completely in harmony with our health policy and our rehabilitation policies. Of course, I hope that before this election season is over, they'll have a good run at least enough to reach their destination regardless of how elections go. Because of what? A senator asked about more locations, and I would also like to mention the back department in Stykisholmi. We've been working on a situation where there's been a very specific and important facility for patients with back problems. What a joy it has been to be able to share in contributing up funds for that service!
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u152	Mr. President. The budget doesn't promise anything when it comes to necessary funding for nursing and living things all over the country. In that respect, the government is quite clear, at least There is no increase in the group of paintings; the number of elderly ones is reduced. At the same time as a lot of funding is wasted in letting people with skills and health assessment live in poorer medical hospitals instead of inexpensive nursing and shelters, unacceptable options for these individuals in the last years of their life, nurses are reduced in the country. To illustrate: At the Western Institute of Health at the Swamp, there is room for 20 members of the household in nurses and shelters, while the budget is at the 14th beds is clear. There is no permanent disposal of space available in the Evil Field but only temporary use until the next year, which will be cut down by seven. Why? Yes, simply because the amount of spending that comes with a person's stay is not enough for business, which is why the beds need to be emptied. Therefore, handling matters in such a way as to save the business by not filling those beds. Mr. President. The financial programme states that during the year the review of medical services for the elderly will be reimbursed in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and Economic Affairs. Then we came to the Gilraen Committee that should distinguish real information on the cost of nursing, since for decades all operators have pointed out that the daily expenses are not enough for real costs. Two weeks ago a report by the commission was sent to the Department, and I ask, since I expect the highest. Health Minister is aware of the content of a report by the State Committee: Is it possible that the Government's home would be expected to raise contributions to nursing homes in the treatment of this case at the council or that the operators will continue to have an empty bed due to abduction?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u153	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. First of all, like a what? A senator knows, there were 1,350 million. K. in addition to approval into nursing care management this year, in order to put in more than 90 to 100 spaces for needed needs. Because of what? In particular, a senator asks about the report that Gylfi Magnússon was taking in charge of me on my calendar that it will be successful to have a return meeting before Easter after the work of this committee. It is from my heart that I have always said that it is important to detect the actual cost of nursing but at the same time recognize that this is not a simple matter. There is not one price available everywhere. It's different nursing weights, there's different operations. It is different distances from other services, whether hospital or clinic, health care, home care, etc. We have been setting aside extra funds for home care in good cooperation, to form in Reykjavík, and I am particularly pleased with that cooperation because we have been able to cooperate there to provide more varied resources so that people can stay at home. Of course, a report by Gylfi Magnússon, and that work, of course, was primarily designed to give us a clearer picture of the real cost of nursing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u154	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the speech. I asked if there would be a chance of raising money to the jury, and I hope that I get the answer, since the State Department is expected to show black on white that this has been aborrowed so far. In the last financial program of the government, the plan to work after 2020,2024, nursing services, such as a nursing home, had to decrease in five years by 3.3% in spite of the growing numbers of older citizens. We can't get together, we're growing older citizens. That's a fact. In the current program, which was spoken of as being unchanged because after six months of election, donations return to more than 4%, despite still increasing numbers of the elderly. How can this happen? While home service is a fine price, it does mean that people cannot live at home but that they need this service elsewhere, in nursing homes. These are individuals who have contributed to the community and you should expect them to have an opportunity to stay in the appropriate space instead of in the clinics, at the National Hospital ◯ College Hospital, which has repeatedly pointed out that graduation problems will prevent them from complying with the highest security and quality requirements. This year's increase is explained by the construction of space, not by business. And because it's the highest. The health minister has spoken here about her having affection for state funds, so I ask again: Why don't we just try to make the most of it, not in a bed at the Land Hospital, which is $150,000,200,000, but in a nursing home that costs 40,000. 24 hours or bed rest? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u155	A respectable president. Like what? A senator noticed, I specifically reviewed that we expect 1,350 million. K. This year to increase the number of nurses here in the capital area. We expect 544 million. K. additional next year to nursing, 250 million. K. In the year 2022, for home nursing, we are increasing this service. But because of him. A senator specifically stopped or asked for it, for nursing and rehabilitation matters, I would like to shed only light on the situation, mentioning these 30.8 million who were temporarily involved in 2021 and who had increased nursing weight as a kid. The chamber board put in and everything. The budget is temporarily installed for one year, explaining in part the difference between 2021 and 2022. However, it is true, as a matter of course. One senator says that in the latter part of the financial program, parts of the business are missing. There is something that the Ministry of Health has repeatedly maintained, and we have kept what we need. The welfare committee. But I hope, a respectable president, we can go together to love the funds of the state and also to contribute to a collective policy to pursue an ever - increasing number of older people in Iceland. It is people who deserve the best possible service and, above all, who make it possible for them to stay at home for as long as they choose, with flexible and varied resources. That is what we have emphasized during this terms as well as the building of a new nursing home.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u156	President. At one time when I was most concerned with health care, the flow problem at the Land Hospital was one - third due to the lack of nurses. I can't exactly remember the numbers. But compared to the situation today in nursing care, and then in general only with older citizens who need to be on Landakoti etc., I ask how this is so, both in general, but also in view of the possibility of a setback. The viral status of the virus is largely mutagenic to reduce the effectiveness of vaccines. This can have a real effect on the lives and health of older citizens in the country. That's one of the factors. The other factor is the health - care field, the health - care authorities, has been setting up the development of the epidemic, and how they have affected this financial program. It is assumed that in order for financial programs to succeed, there will be some 700,000 tourists coming here this year and 1.5 million next year, if I remember correctly. The numbers are pretty much that way, anyway. If this persists, it will pass the part of the financial programme but there may be a setback regarding the possibility of opening the country, the timing of vaccination, and the extent to which the movement will be in the world, etc., in particular in view of the fact that new strains that are becoming more contagious. At that time, herd resistance is not as high, the illness becomes more severe, younger people get sick, and it affects the community as a whole. In what ways have the field photos of the government affected financial programs, especially when it comes to the factors to maintain this issue, which are 700,000 tourists this year, and 1.5 million in the next year?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u157	A respectable president. I know why. A senator completely agrees with me about how unpredictable this epidemic is and how often and frequently we have had to react at the General Assembly. The Congress has actually stood together like one man in going through repeated financial contributions, etc. Over and over in 2020 because of the epidemic, we thought it would take far less time than he later did, etc. Now a year later, in reality, we still have a very tighter transport ban, and I don't think any of us have any reservations about where we would be today. In general, we have responded to the epidemic through specific measures because of the shift in terms of the implementation of the epidemic into general programmes, where we are talking about this traditional business, framed spending, and so on. Now financial programs and, of course, budgets are made together, allowing space. It's a fixed budget, there's a certain part for unscheduled expenses. We assume that we can show up with funds or that something will happen that we did not expect. I'd like to say, for what? A senator made a special point of whatever we see on the horizon. Of course, now we are talking about a new version of the virus that we do not know exactly how to behave. We're talking about more infected variations between children. We're talking about a vaccine that we don't know exactly how the mutant species work, etc. But I think what we came here to do is have to look at at at at least, or face, although only the budget for 2022 is a vaccine in that year.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u158	I agree with the highest. Secretary of health. She did not come directly with answers, perhaps difficult to answer, it was more about how the conversation has been with the DC who see the potential stage photos and how it is made to the Ministry of finance and the Ministry of finance to see if the most likely scene is that it will be 700,000 tourists today. I'm looking at what it's based on, based on the best information that the government has now or the best information in the process? Often this is the case with the council, and then things change, and they change very quickly now. In view of today's latest situation, is this optimistic or pessimistic scene, 700,000 tourists each year? We are naturally discussing this today and agreeing at the council today, so it may need to be adjusted in the light of new events today. I personally had become relatively optimistic with the tourist industry before the information about the new variation was received. As such infections begin to increase, flocks resistance becomes longer and there may be a need for more intensive action when it comes to children, which, in turn, has a tremendous effect on the whole community. So this is very important. That's what I'm asking about, films and status right now and what would have to be turned into a financial plan in view of the information that the CDC has today. Then it was only in the medical facility, their position, and the way this financial plan brings us further in the right direction. This was one third of the flow problem at the Land Hospital when I checked it a few years ago, i.e. lack of nurses. What is the situation today, and where are we moving with this financial program?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u159	A respectable president. In fact, there are two or three steps to react in a financial programme to the epidemic. Early reactions are the natural reaction of the health system. We've got samples to do. We have samples to do, we need enough equipment, etc. and then we need to secure the services of the Covid parade and check that there are possible admissions, ventilators, and so on. It is our health system that needs to be treated, and we always expect to improve our health - care system fully because of Covid. Then we are talking about a secondary effect, so to speak, i.e. what we can expect for travel services and other things. It is not only about our situation here but also about the epidemic, how it works in the countries around us. I agree with that, as a matter of course. One senator says and points out that the basis is changing very quickly. The Parliament is given a number of jobs because there is not enough foundation to change rapidly from day to day but, rather, the law of making a plan for many years. As I mentioned earlier, we only know that a year will have to be vaccinated again because the virus will come at regular intervals, but we may have better control of it. I think going through this is quite a challenge. Because of what? A senator also asked about the problem at the National Hospital on graduation, when it is a combination of a flow within the house, but also about having enough resources; rehabilitation, home care, home care, health care, etc. [[The president calls.]] We've been adding in all those options, and hopefully we'll be able to get our tails.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u160	A respectable president. At the same time that we study financial programs prior to the 20222/206, we do well to look back. Because of the pandemic season, our powerful prospective medical staff are deeply disturbed, and each one of them is grateful for his unselfish efforts. But there is more to the health - care system than just the virus. Waiting lists are a major problem that seems to have increased somewhat during the season. I mention changes in the activities of cancerskis that have been in the dough. Medical therapists and speech pathologists have been in a tight position. I would also like to mention subsidies in a psychological service adopted by the General Assembly, but not by financial contributions. I don't see that these matters of opinion or problems are mentioned or taken into account in the financial budget, which means that there is no specific chapter on how to finance improved service in this regard. The plan covers the plans for implementing projects at the new Land Hospital and the importance of reevaluating planning investments and implementing projects in order to clarify the priorities and use of funds. Of course, it's important, and I agree with it. But I ask: Does the overall picture suggest that the existing problem is due to a waiting list and mental health generated by the Korean epidemic? That's why I want to ask the highest. Whether and then what funds will be put in particular now to tackle the waiting list problem, as I have been considering, and perhaps especially in connection with subsidies of the psychological services. My question to the minister is, is there now being put on a special budget to tackle the waiting list problem within the system?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u161	A respectable president. I have to say that I agree completely with the importance of improving mental health care in society, since we have added to the budget of a mental - health professional near a billion each year in this ideal period, as well as 540 million in 2020 and again this year, particularly for Covid. There is a great increase in mental health care during this term, and all the mental - health workers are fully developed. I know why. A senator is particularly interested in what deals with independent psychologists, and so am I. I'm sorry about the review of the convention council because the word that this approved Generalis is not a financial body is simply not in accordance with the facts. What the General agreed was that therapists, such as other health care professionals, could be negotiated, and it is totally normal to do so. It was done in the health insurance laws, like what. A senator knows. I stressed that immediately this year, 100 million people, I make arrangements to start making deals with independent psychiatrists. A team of restorations has felt that some form of laughing and faultfinding was done, and I don't think that's a good statement. It's going to have to come together with regard to psychology services, and that's what we've done through our health care team, and that's what we're going to do with the rapidly growing contracts with independent psychologists. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u162	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A health minister for the answers but has to admit that I do not fully understand the source of her vision on the restoration program. As the minister noted, this has been followed by 100 million. K. I think we both realize that there is no significant amount that really is enough to achieve the goal that the Parliament had to achieve. It is true that a minister was granted this warrant, and we have encouraged her to take advantage of that authority and thus to go to the council's will. But I would like to look at the cost of health analysis. V.E.G. A minister has been working on the introduction of so-called DRG cost analysis for hospital service and comparable services provided in private outdoor operating, an important step to ensure efficiency and harmonisation of the service costs within the system. But as we know, secular work has taken a considerable amount of time. One of the most negative results for the current system may be a lack of transparency. Inevitably, the lack of work helps to identify our application tools in making the system more efficient. It has also been suggested by experts that existing arrangements may have a discouraging effect on production within the system, i.e. That we are in some way even rendering less service than we might be doing. Therefore, a more clear and more transparent system is being established. I would like that relationship to ask the highest. Minister of two two questions: How is the process during the induction of this cost analysis and the impact of the financial agenda we are discussing today?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u163	A respectable president. It's a financing system as fast as possible. A member of the United States notes that both the Hospital and the Akureyri Hospital are being implemented today. It is expected in health policy, and in fact, the schedule we are working according to, over the next few years, to introduce DRG into all health care services, and there, of course, we need to have a detailed cost analysis, not only in the public health system, but also in the system that has been run by contracts. I'd also like to mention the health care that has had a special funding system and has had considerable experience here in the capital area, and we've been paying for this year's national health care. In effect, we are talking about the upkeep of services, i.e. that it reflects the services being served, but also takes into account various social factors that sometimes revolve around rural areas, sometimes about social composition in one way rather than others, etc. This has been very effective in the capital area, and we see that this will have a positive effect on the region too. Then I can imagine at least, and in line with our health policy and the plan we had been developing, that all health care services will be both costly and profited mostly in accordance with these systems.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u164	A respectable president. We'll discuss a budget until 2026. I'd like to ask the highest. Health Minister whether she is not already concerned with waiting lists and who could probably, by the latest treatment guidelines, with the longest considerably, most of the court lists that are already too long. I'm asking if she'll see for the future that the list of lists has to be handled, especially waiting lists to make it on a waiting list, e.g. due to the analysis of the paediatric population, the diagnosis must be obtained first and then the waiting list should be available for treatment. This includes older citizens who are in a similar situation for diagnostic purposes and who are subsequently treated. It tells itself that during this situation there is more stress, e.g. physical therapist. What is the solution? Is that a matter pushed forward, or is it really being resolved, so that everyone can be at peace? Of course, in this context there is also speech pathologists. Doesn't she have a little bit of concern that this system we've been running in Covid, closing and opening, closing and opening, biting people in rehabilitation, swimming, and all kinds of things? The consequences of this on the health system must be worried. Has there been a map to determine how serious this will be, and how will it be responded?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u165	A respectable president. Hv. A member in particular asks about the impact that Covid has, as I understand it, on our health system, and perhaps particularly in the case of our health, as it was last year during periods, that certain elective measures are prohibited for a long time. It affects people who are waiting for action, and we saw it happen. Hv. A senator rightly points out that people are on a waiting list, and they open your eyes to the fact that a waiting list is not a particularly good measure for what the situation is. There may be people waiting to get there, but there may also be more than one place to wait, and then there may be waiting for people to ask for exactly the options they offer and to want something else, etc. We have every possible kind of waiting art. My focus and vision have been a little bit that we need a central and transparent wait list that is so that people can only see how long a wait is here and how long it takes. There may be waiting for replacement or other procedures, I know why. A senator has particularly been thinking about these procedures, as well as about mental - health services for children. This central waiting list is being prepared now by the surgeon's office, and it's been going on for a while. We've all had to take a considerable turn on other projects lately, such as Covid-related matters, so surgeons have been really busy with it, but I expect to see some kind of central waiting list at the surgeon's office soon. I think it will happen before this election period is over. We'll have better and more powerful controls because that's what we need.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u166	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The health minister answers. I deeply agree with her in this way so that we need to master these lists, and we need some database to go on the waiting list and a waiting list where people may not know if they want to go into the custody room or would like to go somewhere else. But we have a very good foundation, and we could build a similar system, and it is a health being. That's a great foundation. I say for my part that it has made it easier for me to get both a family doctor and a reinvigorate medicine and something else I need. I'm wondering if there could be some sort of surveillance of this waiting list system there, if it couldn't just fit in there and be held around this? What we're really worried about is how long this Covid situation lasts. Let's hope we're back to the last half of the summer. But then I ask myself, because we have overcrowded hospitals of older citizens, as we have seen, and that is the most expensive resort: Do the minister sees to it that this matter can be resolved quickly and well because something has to be done? As we have seen during the discussion, we need to find an easier way to help and care for our older citizens than to have them in a hospital that is both expensive and unpleasant and in no way humanable to have people in it unnecessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u167	A respectable president. I especially want to thank you. A senator for mentioning health care because something good is taking out of Covid. We will see how well health care can be used both to renew medication and to talk to health care professionals through their chats. That has given us tremendous benefits. I am very pleased with that structure because it has actually been a multiplicity of that service and helps very much in that we do not always have to land in order to speak to health care professionals or to get medical care. I think you're right too. A senator that the central system we're talking about here should be very relevant to the waiting list. I've seen quite a cool system with the Norwegians where we only see all the operations listed in one place and there's a living system where you can see how the queue moves in every hospital that serves a certain service. There we are, for example, talking about hip and knee replacements. I think it's very important. Hv. A senator asks about the elderly, and I don't get tired of saying that I think it's absolutely important that we have a variety of personal and individual resources for old people. Not that you turn into a group when you're old, but that you get the services you want, and that you're in your own home if you want to. Then, as the day's day begins with a relatively simple rehabilitation process, the service may grow as you please, and then perhaps there will be a nursing home as your caring or service weight increases. That's what we'd like to have, and that's why we've been increasing these options for the past few years. But we need to do more.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u168	A respectable president. In short, I'm explaining the financial programme for the 20222/026 in terms of the topic fields under foreign and development co-Progressaries; topic area 4, foreign languages, and 35 international development cooperation. As already mentioned, financial plans are put forward under unusual circumstances. The emphasis presented in the contributions of the last financial programme is expected to stay in all basics. It is no secret that, under the present circumstances, it is a real challenge to deal with a number of projects and the focus of foreign service within the framework of the foreign service. This, however, has been accomplished by showing advisedness and flexibility to meet new challenges and unexpected events. This will continue to be the need for the next few years to provide increased protection for the EEA community. In the coming years, projects related to the North will be important and must ensure safe and successful relations with Britain, one of the most important business countries in the continent. We will then face new threats to security associated with the multi-item, especially on the Internet. The premise that rapid changes can be faced in our environment and that response will be considered for an increase in the flexibility of the public system. The period we are going through has also shown the importance of effective civil service, and we face the restoration of the Icelandic economy. The Ministry's Department Department's trade department was formally pushed back last autumn and is working to further expand export activities with the aim of providing increased exports and more efficient markets abroad. For some factors, it should first be noted that contributions to a topic area 4 are expected to decrease by more than 1.5 billion dollars. during the period. This is largely explained by the reduction in donations for the building up of the EEA by over a billion. The sea is now in the second half of the contract period, lowering contributions to the year 2025. The general holdup totals about 600 million. K. during the period. Pronunciation of temporary tasks, e.g. the prehumanity of Iceland in the Arctic Council and the discussions with the British due to EU discharges, a clear reduction of over 400 million initiatives. K. during the period. In turn, contributions to various projects during the period, such as executives in the European Commission and the Commission to the UNESCO increase. That assumes 100 million. K. an increase due to an expositive range and the reversibility of temporary decline in the rate of 2021. It is also expected that temporary declines in production to the Iceland Lab will be reversible and donations will increase in accordance with better supply by over 200 billion. K. Conventional contributions to the European Parliament and the UN are expected to increase by more than 180 million over the period according to the national sector plan. A respectable president. I'm starting to get back to the 35th international development team. Human rights, equality and sustainable development are guided by Iceland's development partnerships in line with the outlook for the UN's global objectives for a sustainable world. There's a special focus on a field where Iceland's expertise is making the most of it. A new cooperation fund has been established in the industry on projects that contribute to employment development and sustainable growth in poor developing countries, in line with the appeal. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has now begun cooperation with the Department of Employment and Development and Technologies for funding projects aimed at creating employment in poorer countries of the world's Covid-19 era. In accordance with the government's Mosaic Law, contributions to the 35th matter constitute changes. This figure is estimated to increase from 0.32% in 2021 to 0.35% in the 202/226 year. In view of the budget strategies of 20222/2266, statistics do not reflect an increase compared to the development of the GDP and the latter part of the plan. According to the Ministry of State, the abnormality will be over 2.3 billion by the end of the period. It is a mistake that the Ministry of finance has explained, and I hope it will be corrected before it is tested. Higher donations for developing cooperation during the period will be used to further Iceland's work in two-sided cooperation countries, to strengthen cooperation with employment life and a free partner organisation, as well as to respond to the increased need for humanitarian and emergency assistance. There will also be increased power in meeting Iceland's commitments to human rights, gender equality and environment and climate. A respectable president. The main mission of the Icelandic foreign service will remain here to protect the interests of Iceland and Icelandic companies abroad. The Foreign Service is the national guardian for protection and security, foreign trade, and cultural affairs. Then it will be a more comprehensive interest in the more meaningful work and contribution to sustainable development and human rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u169	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this overview of the budget. Of course, we have very short time to discuss these things. I'm going to ask you a few questions or questions. First of all, I'm concerned that the maps are reduced, in view of the fact that we're going to have to put out all hooks and networks to get better and more business for Iceland to rip us out of the Covid situation. I think the foreign agency will have to play a part there, so it will be, I think, merely shown up with some kind of internal transfers or such. And I'm also concerned, Mr. President, that the figures we see here are not exactly compatible with the fine report that the Minister put to work, called Forward Walk! There's considerable depression and expectations, some of which I don't feel like there's anything in the plan. I therefore feel that we need answers to whether it is certain that the fine report and ideas there will be reflected in this financial program. Then I would like to ask a minister if there is a need for a certain increase in foreign service when we look at the fact that we are a country that is highly dependent on foreign trades. Icelanders are also very diligent in travel and adventures. We have a strong civil service that the Minister mentioned, which we can be very proud of, but I have a feeling foreign service needs to grow. In my mind, a small country, a small island in the middle of the Atlantic, all based on international agreements, international environment and international cooperation, has to have a foreign service that is inverse to the size of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u170	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech and good questions. Right away. A senator asks: "Is it really safe to be protected by any amount of money, which is a little open to the question? It is naturally difficult to answer. On the other hand, what's right is right. A senator says there's a lot of work to be done. He specifically discussed business matters, and I addressed them only in my talk, as well as another vital part of the civil service. We've set off, e.g. with a change in the U.S.A. law, changes not only in the law to make it more efficient, but the ideologies are very clear, i.e. trying to integrate that service as much as possible. Does this mean that foreign service should do what the Iceland Office does or should do what the foreign service does? No, that doesn't mean that. However, I believe that although projects differ, there is no doubt that these institutions work better together, as well as by their jobs, than if their projects are very compartmental. In the coming years, which never before, even if we quickly recover from the position we are in today, there are ways to make money as useful as possible, that is clear. I've been very happy with the development that has been after we changed Iceland law. The ministry is much better, as it always was good, but it has become much closer. I think ideas that we were going to be through but couldn't, for example. that the Ministry and the Agency were in the same place -- I think it will work if it is difficult to identify it on better results in this work. But the big thing is, if the conclusion is exactly what it is now or if it develops something along the way, we have to make the most of it. But what I called after in my talk was that I feel that I need more flexibility in the public system. It takes money not to be flexible in the public system.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u171	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I'd like to start by saying, "To the highest. " Minister; of course, we need to be flexible in our system, and we also need to be able to integrate the resources, if that is what we have in the system or the processes we can use. That's not what we're arguing about, I think. But I'm worried about it, like the work ahead of us, and considering the expectations we have set for the future that we have to expand, expand, and expand our foreign service. We have to admit it. I don't think we can get it by integrating and moving within the house or between the strains. I don't think we're going to do that. But like the highest. Then a minister said we'd find out. However, I would like to ask, in view of the urgency of the future that there are thousands of billions of people at all, if not tens of billions of dollars, as our allies' wishes. Is it, then, expected that Icelanders will be involved in this financial program or is it expected to come in differently or later? It is very important that we take the steps mentioned here as soon as possible, that is, in fact, our duty. Then I'm just going to reiterate that it's very important for us that our excellent and rich foreign service, which actually makes good things every day according to size, that my knowing, get to grow, I want it to be clear, because of the situation of Iceland geographical, commercial, and when we look at what really matters to us most, i.e. The treaty is such that we must be on our toes everywhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u172	A respectable president. I thank you again. A senator for business and good advice. You're absolutely right. There's a senator who won't reduce the number of projects, that's all. Hv. A senator referred to the defense workers. Once a tournament has been introduced from Iceland, it is something that has been agreed on and it has not been negotiated, although there is a great need for renewal, and it is absolutely clear that such a project will be carried out and it will be done. When it comes to projects and expectations, my vision has been that if you're going to talk about the Icelandic diplomat, that individual, whatever it is, has to do far more than its coal in most other countries. Someone might say, " Isn't that so unfair? ' But this is just what it means to be an Icelander. If we want to know about Icelandic diplomats, he's got a lot more knowledge and experience because there's so much more in the ministry. It is very common for people to have worked in various fields, in business, in defenses, and now in development. Hv. A senator was premeditated as a minister, and I believe it was a great success, to unite the development team and the Ministry of State. It's been very good for us, including. in civil service projects. Now, too, because this integration has achieved, we are making further use of human resources. I think our mission now, not only in the Ministry of State, but also elsewhere, is to look for ways to make better use of the resources and resources that are present than has previously been done. Of course, it is a lifelong project, and I have put it to work, but there will be even more challenges in the years ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u173	A respectable president. I'd like to talk to the highest possibles. Secretary of state on the European Union. I'm not gonna ask the highest. Minister of State on his position on the European Union, for I am aware that he would want to walk in the European Union just to be able to take it off at once, enjoy it. [[Up front.]] I'm not going to talk to the highest, either. Minister of the strange troll stories received from the members of the Independence Party in foreign affairs on the alleged ban on vaccine exports from the European Union and other ministers, responsible for the Supreme Court. Ministers, have not failed to carry back. However, in view of all this noise, it is a little surprised that in this financial strategy, the European Union and our relationship with the European Union are very little, but the more protecties and the United States are involved. The European Union is once mentioned and, yes, there is a little discussed about the EEA Convention. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister in view of all of this communication and in view of the fact that we are now leaving Sweden to take care of our interests in this coalition, to yield to the Norwegians, and then to protect our interests: Is it not time for the next budget to be committed to serious honor in caring for the national interests of Brussels?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u174	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good and pleasant speech. Sadly, these are not myths when it comes to medication. This is exactly a repetition of the medical equipment. The European Union put us and Norway on a list, and although the export ban has not been established, this frame is wrapped around it, and it does not resist the EEA Convention to place any such restrictions. It was very good, and we are happy to have this sharp response from the Director of the Commission that this is not to affect us, but we are there. It was also said to us last time, and then when the economy began to function, it was the Swedes, some conscientious official - or not, who stopped the medical equipment to Norway. I've consulted with the Norwegian Foreign Minister, and we are so worried about it. I've had a conversation with five Ministers today, except that we've already used the foreign service, called the EU ambassador to meet and did it right away when the Regulation came up because we're really worried about this and want it because it's not consistent with the EEA deal. We don't leave anyone here to look after our interests. It's just a little misunderstanding. Senator. What we've done in this terms period is that much of the interest management of the EEA and therefore largely towards the European Union. We started a job and suggestions that have been largely carried out and hidden. In particular, it is the representatives of all Brussels Council to monitor what happens at the early stage of the EEA when we most influence our interests. So we have truly strengthened this aspect, not being unnecessary, for there is no one to care for our interests other than ourselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u175	A respectable president. I agree with the highest. Ministers that there is no one to care for our interests other than ourselves, and the EU also holds out the interests of the nations within the alliance, not the nations outside the Community, or the nations that are protected, as it were. However, I wanted to use my second question here to mention only the development of teamwork. It's a pleasure, and it's commendable that money is not being reduced in developing cooperation, but we've been talking about the goal of reaching 0.7% and while we haven't reached that goal, I think it's safe to say that we don't take enough steps in the next five years. I'd like to ask the highest. The secretary of state and development when we will reach the declared targets of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u176	Thanks again. A senator for objective and good questions. But it's not like that, and I hope it is. A senator will not resent the fact that the European Union is the Kingdom of Heaven. That's a huge misunderstanding. [[Up front.]] This is not to say that everyone agrees on how the European Union could affect the interests of those in the European Union. Unfortunately, it is difficult for our friends in the European Union today, and the Covid epidemic is still more challenging in the European Union. Each member of the European Union is careful to care for his own interests, and this is not to say that the 27 countries in which the European Union is involved. But there's a very special discussion, and I'd be happy to do that if it did. A senator would take up such a conversation with me, such as why. A senator can only imagine. With regard to development, we have seen an enormous increase. If we're talking about a rapid increase in government spending in recent years, apart from health and social issues, then it's through development cooperation. This is a big increase in short periods of time. It's important that we make good use of this money, and there's a lot to discuss from the reasons I can't do right now in these 30 seconds. When are we gonna make it to 0.7%? The last time I examined it, we were around or over the OECD average, and we've been increasing this steadily. I think it's important that it's not only that we have the numbers on paper but that we use the money as well as possible. I've been happy with the changes that have been made lately, including Icelandic employment, such as employment in other countries, has become increasingly involved in the cooperation that has been called on in these countries for some reason. [[The president calls.]] But I can do it better afterwards.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u177	Mr. President. Perhaps I will begin by commending the highest. Secretary of State for reacting rapidly to the false reports regarding limitation of vaccine transport to Iceland during the days. It's kind of odd how much has to be kept in both the country and the European Union, that we're part of the inner market, that we're as good as members of the European Union on this point. But then comes the lead: In view of a talk, it is the best. Minister, who was a little more concerned about what has happened over the past few years, which may be just an excellent proposal but does not comment on what is happening in the financial program we are facing, and in view of the fact that there is no update on goals in the financial agenda, I have to ask: Is there anything that has happened recently, e.g. in the past year, which allows for only changing course, e.g. in developing cooperation where there is clearly a new and rich need throughout the world, e.g. In defense, since we have seen that the issues of defense that we have been stressing are not necessarily as rich as other factors that turn, e.g. To the health of the people? So it may not be possible to talk about the support of foreign transactions. It is clear that many things have changed as meetings are moving in large ways to telecommunications, which, of course, offer new opportunities for foreign service to connect Icelandic companies and foreign parties, perhaps especially in distant countries. It would be good to have some vision from the highest point of view. Minister unless she may be a secret.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u178	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a fine talk and good questions. It is true that we need to protect our interests when it comes to cooperation with the European Union. We're just on our initiative to meet with the EEA board tomorrow because we consider it a clear violation of the EEA Convention to put us on this list and under this Regulation. What's to be done? Hv. A senator brings up a few issues. Only about developing cooperation: What is being done there, and what are we stressing? Besides the fact that we've put first a Covid helper, so to speak, we'll continue the work that is about to help the poorest countries and take an active part in the UN institutions we've been given much credit for--even if all is proportional, we've been building these institutions a great deal. We have made special human rights focus on developing cooperation, and we have, like the nations we compare to, been using our professional life, as I mentioned earlier. What a tremendous change this is! We're taking the first steps in this because everything takes time, but we're going to keep doing this. With regard to the defense, we look at a new security picture, and we have, of course, had to respond, including. By performing and maintaining the course of the Chefavor airport and elsewhere in the country. But we are now the first to participate in international cooperation, including To NATO, when it comes to the net count and the number of objects, such as the night. A senator knows very well. We took this big step a few months ago and we'll follow through on it right away. As for the foreign trade, we changed the law on the Iceland Office and we changed planning in the Ministry. Hv. A senator brings up the telecommunications, and they have become a rule. One of my last meetings opened up with telecommunications and brought together people from Iceland and Estonia, a number of other countries that we are in such cooperation with. [[The president calls.]] It's all on the move, and the work's gone. I can so review these changed emphasises, we want to put special emphasis on the far market, but I can't get it in seconds.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u179	Mr. President. That was fine. This may have been mainly a list of the highest levels. Minister of what has been done. I'm still waiting for the offer to come to an end and we're going to talk about the future because it's clear that there are so many opportunities that happen in such a state. Of course you're right. Minister went through the changes, but watch e.g. in development cooperation. We are very active in several countries, especially Uganda and Malawi. These are among the poorest countries in the world, especially Malawi, that is at the very bottom of the world's GDP. It is clear that vaccinations are not as accessible to all. The media reports that Iceland may be able to profit if the European Union does not want to send a vaccine outside its borders until all are vaccinated there. Okay, okay. We agree with Gavi to try to ensure that 20% of all manufactured vaccines go to developing countries. But wouldn't it be a reason, when we're seeing the end of our campaign in this country that we're trying to help the most supportive countries to achieve 100% of their own vaccinations as soon as possible? That would be, for example. progressive goals. In the case of foreign transactions, it's good to hear that it's going well with Iceland. Great. But when will we begin to attack a new market with experience in mind that we have gained in the past year? There are still many places where we have a strong chance of expanding our foreign business. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We've had a meeting with the Thai Parliament and others in the past few months. Why don't we give in a little more than just give up and cut down?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u180	A respectable president. I'll continue in the campaign. When I tell you what we're doing, it's because we're building for the future and we're going to continue to do it. We've worked a lot in preparation because we're going on a road trip, we're going on a long trip. What we did as soon as this epidemic came up was setting priorities in developing cooperation, the focus of the epidemic. We have, for example. set 500 million. K. of COVAAX, which is exactly this, i.e. in the vaccine program. These objects don't end there. Hv. A senator referred to Uganda and Malawi. We too are going to the western shore of Africa, such as Sierra Leone, and we cooperate with Liberia. It will continue, unfortunately, an endless task. True, for a clear reason, I was announcing increased donations to Syria. That's enough to take, but we've set our priorities closely for the reasons of the epidemic. A senator mentioned, and I'm not going to repeat. It is very rare that we can heal on this export from the European Union. I read that story and can't understand how humans can reach that conclusion, which is not good news for us, as I considered. But with Iceland, she can't be an island or a foreign service. It's going to have to be professional. Hence, the Joint Export and Market Council laid the emphasis it has on the foreign markets. There are 400 people involved. But it's not just that, the companies were asked, "Where do you want to work?" Because the government can't just start if the job isn't involved. The government does not sell one fish or anything. It's the career that makes it. We can only open the door, but we have to do this together, and we have to do this business. Job life set up areas that highlight and are followed. After that, we will win. We have to do this professionally. [[The president calls.]] It can't be that we here at the General Assembly decide to go to some country if the job life doesn't have a chance or even if it doesn't follow up.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u181	Mr. President. I think the one standing here, the highest. Foreign Ministers dispute the belief that foreign services are of utmost importance, and it is urgent that we Icelanders run the powerful foreign service. I'd like to say, too, that the highest. In many respects, the minister of foreign affairs has done well in my opinion. We may not agree on any aspect of the foreign politics, but I'm not going to make it a subject here. Now I know the highest. A minister is closely associated with the British government. I would like to ask, "Did he enter the British government according to the way they think about the British tourist ban that they have imposed on them? " But we rely on it, or we've done it, that there's a lot of tourists here, especially from Britain. It's rather pathetic if the British aren't allowed to travel here. So it is very important that we make this clear. Then I'd also like to know if it's the highest. A minister has discussed it with the British government, and he wondered here at home also whether the British vaccination policy is not too different from what we want to do. [[The president calls.]] They have chosen to receive a previous dose, but the second with a lot of delays. Is the British half-vaccinated fully vaccinated, according to the government of the United States?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u182	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech and warm words to me. Hv. A senator here has excellent questions, specifically pointing out how important the British people are to travel in Iceland. Many people do not have to comment on the importance of their success. And I might like to mention, I know why. A senator is not there, for many people think that foreign relations will pass through foreign ministers, but they do not. I know there's been a conversation between our travel minister and his colleagues in the UK on these matters, but I suppose with this travel warrant, and I think everybody's in there, that it's temporary. As it is now, only those who are vaccinated may think more of movement. We can see that the British have a plan on how they're going to lose restrictions. However, they have been able to, based on my best knowledge, this is not on my level, to receive the first dose, and the conclusion is that it reduces a tremendous amount, whether 80 or 90%, of the possibility that the person will get ill. Then come the second dose. If I've understood the matter correctly, proper president, this isn't exactly on my level, then the British have already done, and done it in their tireiest days, the timeliness for how they're going to save all their limits and aim to their vaccination plans, which, as I know, have done well and they've got a high percentage of vaccinees in that country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u183	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The minister of the State for the answer and again that, of course, it is very good to use the good relationships I think I know to the highest degree. For various reasons, a minister has with the British government. I'd like a second round to go to the top. Ministers after that, because it also matters so much when we're trying to talk about the future, how the talk with the British is going about how Iceland and Britain interact with Biffit. I know it's the highest. A minister has great faith in the fact that there is an enormous opportunity for us Icelanders to believe that the British left the European Union. That's why, first of all, I want to go to the highest. Ministers according to the way these contracts deal. Second, whether it has made a scene or predicting how the box on business will be and how it will affect business between the two countries. And, at the same time, because it matters for our economy and how our foreign business comes about to develop, whether a minister remains steadfast as to the fact that there is a very broad opportunity to be done. Has what has been going on in Britain and in the context of the European Union, etc., changed the concept of the Minister? [[The president calls.]] Does he still believe that these opportunities are very great and big, or have there been some shadow in the light of experience?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u184	Thanks again. A senator for the subject and good speech and good questions. With the shadow, I think we just have to say, as it is, that the shadow that has actually been the relationship between the British and the European Union. It affects all those living in Europe. It should have been more ambitious when it came to their contracts, and it's complicated the situation. There is no doubt about it. The fact that this took all this time to do it -- it may not be possible to say that we are in a time crisis because we have trusted our nuclear interests with a temporary agreement - but if we reach the EFTA countries, the Norwegians have been in a rush of time. We haven't thought of ourselves as having a time crisis. But the opportunities are obvious, and it's not just me who has called attention to them. President and former vice president of the gang. Similarly, a senator speaks of opportunities that are obvious, such as. When it comes to fishing, but, of course, these are negotiations. In general, in all our free shops, we'll hold a post, like any other EFTA state, when it comes to agriculture, but we want to move forward in other ways, especially in the seaside, and people need to find some balance in it. But there is no doubt about it. Likewise, the common vision we wrote to the British, as far as I know one nation, of much more than mere business, is an opportunity to do it, but, of course, people have to follow those things. So I haven't been on that opinion. These are our interests, too. I told the first day that if there are business barriers in Europe and in this case between the United Kingdom and the European Union, but there is evidence to suggest that they are not going to be good just as they used to be, it is not good for us. [[The president calls.]] It's not good for anyone. [[The president calls.]] But we couldn't do it. They had to finish it themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u185	A respectable president. We'll discuss a financial agenda here, and we'll answer to the top. Foreign and Development Minister. In the United States, international cooperation has been tested. These are mainly the vaccine-companying activities of the EU and the EEA. Many people are unhappy with the results of this cooperation and believe that the EU has lost the ball. There was an amazing situation yesterday, as we have discussed, about the time the EU planned to limit the export of vaccine to countries outside the EU and to Iceland in the list published by the EU. The government, both there and here, has assured us that this is not to be involved and will not interfere with the vaccine distribution from the EU to Iceland. These may be normal questions: What would happen if Iceland had access to another vaccine, e.g. Russian Sputnik? Would the EU prevent its transfer from the EU to Iceland? I don't know if it would cross its head going through the outer borders of the EU, but perhaps it would happen. Does Ministers believe that the EU responds correctly during these periods by limiting the export of vaccines? Does Ministers think it's a cutting off job on the part of the EU not to be careful to keep the EEA out of the scope of action? Or is it just that the EU is all over its own mess, thinking that it needs to kick somebody and decide to kick in Iceland? The fact is, the EU has completely screwed up the vaccine business and appears to be trying to get it over with others with some amazing surprises.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u186	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech and good questions. The important thing is this, and I've declared it several times in the short time past, since this case came up -- why. A senator refers to this Regulation - that the EU ambassador was also called up at the Ministry of State and our protests, as well as in Brussels. I've had a conversation with seven Ministers, since I've delivered this message. On the one hand, we have compared our books, me and the Norwegian Foreign Minister, to end the same boat, but since then I have spoken to six ministers in the European Union, our friends, to promote our protests, because we believe it is a violation of the EEA Convention to bring us into this list. I've said it's not an acceptable word, used it. I think it's just fine without being too dramatic. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator and everyone who's been watching my comments knows the weight I put on it. I don't think it's acceptable that this way has gone, and we're asking that this Regulation be changed. Of course, the nations in the European Union differ in their own exposure to vaccines, and we Icelanders need to be careful for our own interests as well. It's just that way. When it comes to vaccines, we should do everything we can to allow the nation to be vaccinated as quickly as possible. We've certainly stuck to our business together. But we see what is happening elsewhere, and we must take that into account.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u187	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister of the Foreign Minister, Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson, for the answers. I have to say, I agree deeply with him. I'd also like to ask if he's been in conversation and communication, e.g. to the Secretary of State of New Zealand, the information about the wonderful positions they have had in the Covid epidemic and the wonderful results they have achieved. It is remarkable that they did so by being very rigid and close to being inside for 10 days, I think, rather than 14 days. They could dance in an antiviral country while we were completely up against the shoulders of the virus and now they're out of control again. It is also a matter of Israel, for they too have been remarkably successful and like the British. Once the British got out of the EU prison, they have been doing fine. I'm asking the highest. A minister may not have the time to approach them and learn from them, how to do so, because we see that the European Union is in some kind of panic, perhaps because we need only to look to the European Union's France, what the situation is, in order to realize that it does not seem to contain a stone on the vaccine business of the European Union and has not done. It's not like we're going to be threatened again, first with a respirator in our time and now, with a vaccine. Is it not time for us to send a clear message to the European Union that we will not tolerate such behavior on their part?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u188	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech and good questions. We have naturally sent a very clear message to our friends in the European Union when it comes to this Regulation. I hope it hasn't missed anyone. Hv. A senator referred to three countries, and we have come a little, at least, beyond financial planning. But it's okay. No matter what we think of them, we cannot overlook the fact that we are affected by the lack of infection, the pressures on the health system, and how much freedom we could have had, that Iceland and I have been doing very well. Hv. A senator asks if I have been dealing with my colleagues. I've been, and everyone's noticed how well we've been doing. We see now everyone for action, including curfews and such because the infection is growing in these countries. There's all the numbers we can see here. These things aren't exactly on my level, though they're all connected, but I've met New Zealand's foreign minister, he came here to visit, and I've been with him many times, and I had a very good meeting with him. We have a great deal to work with New Zealand, but the only problem is they're totally far away from us. Other than that, there are great opportunities in cooperation between Iceland and New Zealand. Although Israel took a natural course regarding vaccination, the British have gone through very difficult times, although they may now be seeing the light because they have been successful in carrying out vaccinations. I think our project now is going through the storm. But the main thing is to get us out of this as the situation is now that the solution is no more than vaccination. The task is to try to win it as fast as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u189	Madam President. The main news of this budget, the last part of the term, is that there is no news. They're done, they're done, they're just waiting for the election. The budget will update the figures based on the quality of the Habitat's new economy, the number tables in the plan are updated by a formula, which actually shows better results than expected, especially because the Habitat was at the projecting more solid data now after annual accounts have been published. However, the government does not reevaluate policies or programs for the case, although there is a true reason, such as health, education, or to improve the quality of the most vulnerable community, which also carries the weight of the pandemic. There is nothing in the five - year scheme of the government that meets the problem of rural society and part of the country that is obviously going to be exceptionally ill under these circumstances. I mention Southnes, where 1 out of 4 people are without a job, and insides that the State runs in the area fail to cope with the difficult situation. It presents special challenges to the labour oce, the Department of Health, and schools that need much support, which need more resources to provide jobseekers with the opportunity to strengthen their position in the labour market. It allows for a long - term lack of work and for some 10,000 Icelanders to still be out of work in 2026. We need to use the government's resources in such a way that the chances of such long - term non - term work to be negligible. The cost would be high in centenarians, but a very bad effect on the quality of life of those who have no work, social and health benefits that could last longer. The cost of the Covid crisis will be lower for the next five years if the government enters in a much more handsome way than the five - year schedule we discuss will be expected by a wide range of labour markets and investments. The economy should be reassigned to unemployment, further support for the job, protection for the well - being, and loss of income from unemployed employees. It is necessary to focus the most on employment. The actions of the government presented are such that 85% of the jobs are for men, but unemployment is mostly among women, young people, and immigrants. Hence, they must be treated as well. But the future view of the government is another, as can be seen from the figures estimated in the language. The government's vision of the future is that recovery will be done on a previous basis to cover the debt of the state, a debt that is still low in all international comparisons. Above all, the government wants to stop the debt collection of the state's budget rapidly and no later than 2025. They want to do so by reducing the extent of their success over the past few decades by cutting expenses. This policy is made clear by means of measures in important issues such as health care, schools, and aging institutions this year and the next year, and by unassigned measures of 90 billion dollars. between 2023 and 202025. Also, by improving social security and unemployment insurance, interest benefits, child reforms, and obstetric pay, there is no increase in pay remuneration. By doing so, the government is making a political decision to expand the land. It's a policy, registered and approved, if they'll be back together in the government after the election. A policy for all lawsuits was won last year and introduced six months ago. So, as members of the Parliament, we can take the same committee literature into our discussion and share the seeds of debates with interested ones in the autumn. Madam President. Yesterday, education policy was adopted to the year 2030. The policy has many beautiful words, words spoken at the right time, and words that have been heard very often by teachers. As an example, I'll give you the opportunity to promote work, industry and technology and art and to study. Once again, in an enormous effort to promote professional education in high school, I have been reminded of an article written by Jón Torfi Jónasson in 1997 in the magazine Social Science School of the University of Iceland, which bears the title ◯ Myth novels from the school system, in 1997. When Jón Torfi wrote the article in 1997, nearly 25 years ago, the proportion of high school students in high school was 28%, which is almost the same proportion today. In the Netherlands and Sweden, the number is comparable to that in Germany 80%. There has been a long agreement in discussions about school reforms to further improve the need for occupational, industrial, technical, and art and engineering. Each person knows that learning to study is more expensive than book study, and if he blowes a blow on a trumpet, money is increased to the point of reaching its goals. As a matter of fact, the Minister of Education has been announcing something called education, but no money is intended for the campaign in the government's financial program, which, unfortunately, confirms that yesterday's educational policy is just a beautiful word on paper and will not make a difference in education. Although it may not have been more important to promote education than now, both to strengthen young people without employment, but also to prepare us all for the fourth industrial revolution and all the changes in their work and working environments. Necessity increases as a result of unemployment, but also because of the lack of pensions and microenergy pensions in terms of the lowest remuneration if plans are made. This is how large groups of people are held in a poverty trap. The fallout of the past few years must be reduced and the pension is rising. V.E.G. In 2013 a letter written to older citizens by the secretary of finance promised that they would remove money restrictions and undo the failings of older citizens. Here we are in 2021, and thousands of older cities and micropunchers are still trapped in poverty. People who don't have the opportunity to earn jobs, some of them have no pension rights, no money income, and all trust in the social security system. The only update in the budget for terms of disability and older ones is because of their numbers, not to improve the costs. There are no steps to improve the benefits of those who need to rely on the insurance system. In the United States, we take up the demand that pensions increase the rates of biographies and in terms of minimum wage insurance. We have repeatedly provided basic warnings in matters that have not been obtained in the eyes of the government. From July 1, 2009, the payout rate for remuneration has remained unchanged and should have been twice as high today as it would have followed the pay sheet. This alone reduces the activity of microbubbles that could otherwise be more effective in a good day. There too is a great and valuable active force that has been thwarted. The greatest danger of poverty and economic hardship is that of microenergy pensioners, and the complex system's restrictions contribute to that danger. During the past few months, relief agencies have told us about a large increase in food distribution. Most who turn to them are desperate, long - suffering, single mothers, and unemployed people. On a news site on December 18, 2000, U.S.A. It was stated that the National Hospital does not have to work in the congregations of the management halls during the year 2001◯023, as agreed by the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Economic Affairs. For renovations at the Hall of Hospitals, a financial programme of 20222/226 will be sought for financial resources. This was reported by the Department of Health. Otherwise, the hospital would have had to cut about 4.3 billion. There is no comment on this agreement in the financial program that we are discussing here, but it was promised that it would be, in fact, the highest. The health minister said in a discussion on a budget bill 2021 that would prompt him and that he would not be entitled to interfere with patient service. We answered yesterday's highest voice. Secretary of finance that this agreement would not have to be made in the program, the agreement stands as it has been said. There is a need for a minister who believes that he has taken over the U.S. Shepherdship as everyone in the government of finance. A financial committee must make sure that a word is accepted in a Senate Hall. The financial committee will have to take this strategy and make major adjustments when we meet together after Easter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u190	Madam President. In the end, the first discussion of a judicial hearing will conclude with regard to a financial program that has lasted for two days, in many respects a very good discussion that I plan to commend members of the Parliament for participating in. The forms we have set up here in a discussion about financial plans in recent years, I think that it was okay. But what we are discussing may be an unconventional financial plan for this time, where it is only right 96 days since we agreed on our last financial agenda at the council so that our discussion will be focused on the work of reporting financial programs in the publication that has followed this discussion and being distributed in the General Assembly. In this publication, you can see and read about the economic and economic developments of the past year, and I may feel that the greatest change in recent years is the economic and economic issues of the past. The report has fine evidence that the strong and timely response to a sudden crisis has been effective. It provides a fine testimony to a review of financial policy adopted here in the fall above the financial agenda now proposed for those days at the General Assembly, and that was not automatic in the fall when we were discussing new financial policies and financial programs thereafter because it would. Government policy and money policy are very supportive of each other, and these policies need to work together well, both in short and in length. They need to be compatible with the administration when an arrow needs to be administered, but may also release when the infusion is due. There's this fine line between us, which often makes it hard for us to get in. But if we succeed, we will have a bright future, and it is of great importance in so many respects, although I give only one aspect of what may be primarily a interest and a loan in this country, and especially a sum of interest and loans for the state's funds. But the big issue is how long the epidemic's impact will be and how the economy will rise after that. For that, we must prepare ourselves. We must be flexible, and we must have the courage. In recent years, we have increased expenses for our main systems and subjects, and we are protecting the financial expenditures we are discussing today. We have a significant increase in expenses for health and education. We made investments with a special financial bill just before last spring, and then there were five of them last year. We have undertaken money - making investments that build for our long - term future economic growth. We have invested in research and innovation, which we have no doubt about the road to improved lifestyles and making desirable opportunities. The budget includes improvements in public management, which must be kept in mind. We must constantly consider how we use the money of the country. The budget shows us how we are going to get our money back, stop our debt collection, and thus prepare our community funds to deal with and store the tools that must be taken care of, for in the future, no doubt, we will face unexpected challenges that we must have the strength to meet. We're in trouble. The budget is to review the requirements and predictions and to appreciate the points we support in our decisions. I believe that this year we are at the end of this crisis, not just at the end of a reign, but at the point of overcoming this unexpected crisis. Our mission is to defend our infrastructure, defend the elements that are going to rise, have a return-to-work interview, overcome unemployment, restore a valuable creation so that we can build up the desired standard of living and opportunities and create our people the opportunity they deserve.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u191	President. The government gave the same financial plan, so I have the same speech as last time - but I'm not going to deliver it. I'm not gonna do what the government does. I have no interest in giving the same speech even though it was good, just describing it in a way that clearly explains how strange it is for the government to bring the exact same financial plan again. This is strange, since in a financial program, the government should submit its policy to the presupervisability of what we are going to do in the finance of the state, in order that governments can explain to the body of government, why their policy includes the use of public funds. There's nothing really hard. It is a fine means of handling it in the laws on public financial matters. It is cost analysis, exactly as we do in the transport program and, however, several other programmes, there is no new science. This certainly requires work, but it is not difficult to do. It also needs a benefit analysis, which can be rather complex, but it can also be grossly estimated, estimated to the next tens of millions or so, depending on the size of the project. She doesn't have to be very precise. We work at doing what we get closer to the task being chosen. We just need to know about this. the size of that profit, for we know completely that behind it the size is very inaccurate. It is possible for a social river that is very difficult to dig for and find an accurate number. It's always the criticism I've been given when I've said there's no profit analysis exactly as the law says it's just so hard. We haven't introduced this process, and it's so expensive, etc. But there is no reason not to apply the law. It should be evaluated in advance what the benefits of the use of public funds are, especially government policy. I want to give two specific examples of financial and financial matters to address. On the one hand, it's government policy which is an incredibly small part of the budget when it all comes down to everything, it's really a very small thing, I'm just gonna guess on 2%, shoot into the air, it's something like that in Denmark. The other part is a legal project. We come to this room, we review the laws of the council. We see cost analysis on how these laws affect government funds. But after we accept the law and we have created certain rights or privileges that the government should perform, which pay certain public funds that we have to pay on the tax system, e.g. or something like that, there's no follow-up on what a legal project really costs. That's very strange, because year after year we get financial plans and budgets. It contains a lot of large amounts of money and asks: "Why is this 10 billion? Why is this not 9 billion or 11 billion? A man asks for disunition of these things, for there is a work by law behind this number, and he asks: " How much will they cost each one? Why is this project more expensive than the other? There's no answer, and I don't know which one of the projects is more expensive than the other. There is no answer. We need this information in order to be able to monitor whether it is really public money, so we know when we're accepting laws on any additional project or maintenance project or such that are worth 100 million or so, if it actually works out. If the law has been planned, why can it not be done under the law as well? I would ask a very simple question, I would think. But no, over and over during this terms, the answer has only been: No, the law has not been created. But it's been over a long time. There's an answer, the law has been introduced, but it's not being carried out. What about the benefit analysis? No, nothing like that either. Finally, it is the third and final item, priorities. That is, if something is, the most important thing, because when we're evaluating what problem we're dealing with in the community, it's just a list of projects. It is a long list of projects in every language field, both ideas of improvement, as well as urgent problems. This is a list of priorities that we face and the financial resources we have to try to solve the problem, try to make society better. When we don't have access to this list, when they don't even have access to a list like this, how should we make informed decisions about how to handle public funds in the end? This is available in several media fields already, e.g. in a transport plan, as I told you earlier. We are gradually developing plans for climate. However, there is no or little improvement there, where they give us, and what the benefits are, but that is to add to their plans. That's how we're supposed to operate, and that process is to introduce everywhere, not just in these specific areas, but everywhere. The situation is now that we receive the same government policy that we received a year ago. Government policy, which was in my opinion no policy, is a policy that was delayed a year ago. Then the government was to put in a financial programme by policy. According to the law, a policy was to be proposed on April 1 each year, but there was a state of uncertainty that the government had to postpone its policy, which is disastrous because governments are the members of the community, which shapes the way out of uncertainty, so by public financial management, to clear things up. But the course was postponed, and it was submitted in the fall. So did the financial program answer all the questions? What's going on at unemployment? What's going on with the vaccine induction and the pandemic and nursing homes and all that? No, no, just not. They refer to and the economic forecasts available to that financial program, the development of government policy at that time, pointing to inflation, employment prospects, economic growth, all are worse now than they are, despite government policy. We've got national interest predictions. We received a policy of dealing with the national economy, of how we were going to cope with unemployment, and of improving our situation. But no, the situation now is worse. We're at over 12% unemployment. We have over 4% inflation, and this year's national interest is worse than the last one in these key elements. And what do governments do? They're developing the same policy that didn't fix it last time. I just can't figure it out, so I'm not gonna give the same talk that I started with.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u192	A respectable president. It's been about a lot of interesting discussions here yesterday and today. I began to wonder what I would like to say about it, and I'm going to have this rather short, but I started to look over the direction that one would like to do when the latter part begins to drop. It is now three and a half years, and this is the last national budget proposed by this government. WOW suck, fur hussies, storms, landslides, avalanches, Korean epidemics, volcanic eruptions. All of this is a bit big and has taken a lot of space in the lives of many and some of us all and has taken enormous interest in the economy of the nation, so I don't talk about what's been happening to the nation, these tragic events that are listed here. There is much to talk about, except for the daily work that each government has to do with its original political policies. But they may have been many, those unexpected, and major traumas. The wealth was right at the start of the epidemic, so we were on our way to cope with the trauma of the virus. In spite of a lot of debt now, we're investing in people and businesses. The government's attitude and debt have indeed improved to the rhythm of the improved economic outlook. I'm sure it's a pleasure that last year's work was better than forecasts and plans. This is because the powerful responses and plans on which the government has built have truly proved to be successful. Unemployment is our biggest project ahead, and this is truly a major concern. Therefore, it is important to give good support to people and businesses so that there is a greater number of jobs. The powerful injection that the government has provided in various ways will be the beginning of a fight in the economy. We continue to invest in the interiors and create jobs. There are hospitals, roads, bridges, nursing homes, tunneles, Metropolitans, Australis, so to speak, apart from the investments that rural society has in the streets, elementary schools, gymnasiums, and sewers. All of this plays together. During the election season, more urban planning and purchases have been made in general apartments. These contributions have increased substantially to high school and university, and these programs support all of this. But as in times past, the focus of the government's health - care expenses is out of the question of what has been needed because of the epidemic. About $3 a.m. that leaves the state's budget on health matters. It is not new that the nation is growing older and that people with life - style are growing in the years and decades to come. The battle for healthy society cannot be won solely through health expenses, but it certainly can be lost. Thus, the government of the daughter of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, stresses health matters and has increased annual health expenses during the term. The priorities are clear, that ordinary people are allowed access to better health care, better welfare systems, better education systems, and better transportation. Never have so much money gone into innovation, basic research, and knowledge branches that have grown by 70% during the term. As you can see in a financial program, we are responding to man - made climate disturbances and making contracts for recession by 2030 and preparing society to become a non-carbon object for 2040 C.E. Never before have so much money flowed into climate and climate and in this financial programme we add 1 billion per year to existing and go 13 billion next year to the suit, including in agriculture operations, in natural-targeted solutions, in energy exchanges, and so it is important to consider achieving more goals while advancing to climate. The challenge in climate change is the work that all of us need to take part in, people, and businesses, in order to succeed. In order for society to succeed in its long term, it requires good luck. It is balanced, however, to adjust the economy in a way that is short - term and long - term. The role of responsible government is to maximise the well - being of the people of the country at the same time for a short and long time. I believe with this financial program we're aware of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u193	Madam President. We have been discussing the financial plans of the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter and have been given many talks. What I have felt was a feature of this discussion, some of the government and the government groups, is that it is as if people in some way gave up thinking about the future. The secretarys have preferably stayed in the past, reviewing the achievements they consider to be less efficient than the vision they had in the future. As shown by the books I took with me, the previous financial program that was adopted several months ago is considerably thicker than the one that is now laid down in it is not making any changes to a prior financial plan. It seems that there was no reason for any reassessment or renewal of the goals set there. A budget plan, even though it was presented last year, put forth just before elections, can do nothing but describe the future view of the government. It must be assumed that this is the proclamation of these classes on how they envision the future. Government officials have declared that this government is one of the best rulers in the land, and it is clear that the classes and ministers have the dream of continuing after the election. In other words, this financial program must be the most advanced of these classes into the elections. It would be strange for them to get together and make sure that they put up with one another's vision of the future that they have set out together. And it must be said, as it is, that this vision reflects the fact that to some extent humans have given up on the subject. The panels say: Well, the election is so short that it really doesn't take to change anything, it's a project of a new government. It may well be that it will be the project of a new government, but this government, it will come back to power, will not have much to do, since they have joined together on how they envision the future. What has marked this government is much. What's one of the most memorable things to remember about her is that she's particularly shiny in large statements. It is particularly impressive in the keeping of a fancy press conference, when it comes to carrying out major operations, and then when faced with tests and observations, it becomes evident that few have been left behind. There are many things that have been said that have not yet been said. I will not belittle the problems that the Korean epidemic has brought. The government's post, at least in the woodland, immediately set out to support good action. However, it was not that the government could have had so little to agree with, despite the fact that in his government covenant, it was so important to promote the General Assembly and its relations with the Council. There was nothing more to this than press conferences, much effort to do so, but no consultation with governmental opposition was made on any subject. It is also obvious that the government was unable to stand, for example. ... whenexploitationaninvestment in the workplace. V.E.G. During this discussion, the secretary of finance acknowledged that it had not been successful. It is discussed in a special article in this financial program that it has failed. It has to be said, just as it is that there are several conflicting issues, in view of the fact that the government groups went into this business after a great deal of declarations about what to do in the country'sinvestors. The fact is, though, that it has more drawn together than the rest. Now, it seems mainly that all the promised projects will reach a climax after one, two or three years. If it's true what the government has claimed, then I have to say that this is where all these great investments and projects will come at the worst time for society, that it's just like that, when professional living is about to take over, when the investors are completely involved. It will lead to the opposite conclusion. It will lead to expansion and inflation. That is not what we need. It is also inevitable to mention that there is unemployment in the highest level. Everyone agrees that unemployment is one of the biggest woes we have to deal with. Meanwhile, in Europe, inflation is the highest. In Iceland, most of all the OECD countries had increased unemployment. At the same time, we have a currency that is the foundation of society, swinging like a straw in the wind. In the past, I've made it a subject that she often plays home crying. You don't know the cost of things between months and months. I've mentioned here an example of cars and things that can remember between years and years in 6 million. K. a family car, it can easily remember an 1.5 million, depending on when the car is bought. And the answer to this is that the currency is the basis for a future well - being. The government itself, however, has no more faith in the currency than has already been provided a bill that includes the use of $1.4 million in the back, as well as the wealth of sources for intervention, interference, and other less widely known in any civilized country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u194	V.E.G. President. The discussion of budgetary issues for the period 2022◯226 has been helpful and interesting in many ways. I said here yesterday, so I'll review your own words from this discussion, that this financial plan, as it is now presented, would be reasonable and responsible with reference to the current financial programme and the workout plan of causes of acidification. The bigger picture and challenges that all of us face during the coming years and years will not be met with. In fact, I felt that we were aware of this, and more than that, I felt that it was a change of language. Councilmen at the highest. Minister. I think the form we've had in this discussion has proved to be that way. Of course, it is important that we here be critical of this important aspect of the policy cycle being proclaimed by the public financial law. At the same time, I think it's in the plan and in the discussion about how important it is, now that we have the baseline values set, so to speak, because we have temporarily turned away from financial regulations, that the situation is identified, as is done in the report of the programme. Economic forecasts, economic developments, economic prospects, and the stage picture are drawn as clearly as possible. We have the cost development, the income development, and the debt development for the next five years so that the problems in the money we face are clear to us. This is a translucency factor called after. The plan is now updated based on new national interests, but because of the shortevity since the approval of the final programme, it is a reasonable and logical decision that my decision is not to reevaluate from the focus of individual causes. Thus the proposed policy will remain in the 2021/2025 programme. For the changes in expenses there are changes due to two factors. On the one hand, the largest project of the state, the building of a new hospital, is re-evaluated. The need for analysis and implementation of the project are now expected to reduce the expenditures for the project in 2022 and 2023, but much higher than 2024 or 2025, or 10.3 billion, respectively. However, it is decided to spend each year 1 billion dollars. In addition to climate, with the aim of ensuring that Iceland will pass international commitments to climate. The largest part goes to a climate action program. In addition, because of green investments, the tax requisition bill is available, and the income is expected to drop by 1.3 billion dollars. In a year, working for the same goal as the raise. It is important to consider paying the premium where it is intended to significantly reduce the annual maintenance requirement. I had a word about it during the discussion with why. paritaprevir It's a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter. The general holding charge is 2% per year due to most causes of burning outside of health and school, where it is 0.5% of well-being. It is expected to be reduced to 1% by 203/226 and released entirely at the topic areas of hospitals, aging institutions, and schools. In accordance with changes in national interest estimates, small reductions in income relative to previous financial schemes and income were expected to be about 80 billion higher in 2020. A corresponding reduction in this year relative to previous financial programmes is then expected. Then there are no further improvements to the income-side of the fiscal tax system to form on the income side of the budget, from what was previously planned. So we can be looking ahead for a later shift in this way and 2021 will be more than 2020. As we have noted many times, the program has allowed the so - called automatic swing of public funds, our reform systems, the transfer systems, and the income side, to function fully to soften the impact of the pandemic. Their effect is a total of 205 billion. over the two years, 2020 and 2021. A new national concept recently published by the Haust Office is the basis for the economic leaders of the programme. The projection of the 2021/2025 was based on a projection published during October, and the major changes are that the results of 2020 are slightly more favourable than predicted. The loss of production is smaller. Thus, the economy was combined by 6.6%, which is a 1 percentage level better than was predicted in October. The publication of the state funds proved to be negative by about 200 billion dollars. Last year, as many as 270 billion were predicted. At a angle, it proved to be 70 billion better than expected. This is what is referred to; the standard is better than expected. To a certain extent, there are subsidiary measures and various Covids authorised for the previous year did not fully use and move to this year. The new economic forecasts will not be as beneficial for the current years as it is expected that unemployment will not drop as rapidly as previously thought. It is now estimated to be 7.8% in the year, not 6.8% as then. Thus, it is necessary to continue to pursue a sustainable budget and not lose sight of the goal of achieving a balance at the end of the programme period. A respectable president. We're going, like the whole world, into a green, digital, creative economy with emphasis on the equation. It is the red thread in the plans for international reports and groups. Here the report on the plan is presented in a good box in OECD on this subject and what it takes to increase the economic growth capacity to produce more valuable things and create jobs. Then there is a very interesting chapter in which there can be an improvement in government operations and the development of digital services. In this ideal period, great emphasis has been placed on innovation, research and development, laid the basis for the future in this field of innovation and public cluster policy, increased support for intelligent work and infrastructure, the technological development fund has been promoted as well as competitive funds and established for new funds and is being built and developed to promote the entire ecosystem of innovation. The whole plan as it is submitted is very careful in this regard, I would like to say, and, in effect, the pattern of this traffic with all its challenges. We depend much on growing out of this crisis, that production is growing faster than expenses, and we can regain our balance in terms of money and pay off debt. The most difficult challenge is to create a job, reach down unemployment, which is largely temporary and is linked to tourism, and we'll see the unemployment standards go into the resistance industry quickly, but we're not supposed to accept the persistent unemployment rate of 41.75%, as predicts. We must do better than predicting it. Which is more important, a respectable president, a projection, or reality? We've done better than predicting when it is time to protect the production capacity. As a result, economic growth is reduced because of the ability and strength of the economy. The volume increase is calculated from higher production bases in the denominator ratio, so simple and positive. This has been shown in the discussion to be critical of the trend toward debt development, which, of course, is in relation to how income and expenditure will develop in the next years. Why is it being placed in a government budget to balance income and pay? Can we not just draw this further into the future? However, reaching a positive element, a position, and the strength needed to overcome debt and interest rates is very important. You can't constantly make a debt, and you owe yourself for your debts. As plans are put into place to obtain change on the original equation of about 15 billion, to pass projections on or to the core, and then to be replaced by a change in growth and to stop debt collection in 2026, we can re-route the financial rules. A respectable president. This is as far as I can go for. I appreciate this discussion. Now we start working hard. The budget to discuss the reviews and refine this program that we have now entered the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u195	A respectable president. We have reached the end of a discussion on the financial program of this government, a plan that is due to be set out in 202/226. I have to say exactly as it is that God will help us if this government continues to rule after the next election, because according to this financial plan, there is a clear message from the government to the poorer, older citizens, unemployed, low-payers, and the worst in these groups; social reformers. There is a large group that has fallen out of unemployment and is on social reforms, and is there in Lotto, depending on which group of people they fall into social services, whether they can afford housing, much less likely when they get laid. It shows the inadequacy of this government and of the previously established governments that none of them have set the goal of finding out the right procedure, finding out fair and proper implementation for those who need to live in this system so that they can live with dignity and not have to stand in line after meals. And some simply cannot line up after meals, so they do not have access to food that is a terrible situation. We see and hear reports of how food aid has increased dramatically, and there has also been an increase in the attendance of hot food on those who offer it as a Sam help. There are about 200 people in the United States who are growing in food. But what is the future view of the government on the affairs of the elderly, the desperate, and the unemployed? What is the vision of the future in terms of social security, the number of populations that have suffered terrible failure in recent decades? Most groups have been corrected except for this group, with a total of 25 percent missing. If it were given correctly, this group would not have been under 300,000 bucks. today. In this context, the government was amazingly able to reduce the personality discount that should have been greatly increased if given correctly, it should be much higher if he had followed a pay number or raised naturally compared to the decades that have gone by since the vacancy was recorded. If so, we would have well over 300,000 dollars. To this day, tax and tax-free for payment. Sadly, though, the fact is that a large number of people need to live on just over a hundred thousand dollars. and that group will not receive any giant increases until 2026 if the government that puts up this financial program is in charge of what it will do. This is made clear in their policy that this is at most the merit factor available. It is clear that there are only about 2% of elevations estimated to be up to 2026. At the same time, it is estimated that there will be almost twice as much increase in pay. But it does not exist and has never been available for the group that needs to be trusted in the social security system. Unfortunately, there is not anything much better in other systems. We'll see what happens on health care. Sadly, the majority of the increase is put in only the earmarked structure of a new university hospital. It's a very good thing, but unfortunately, there's a lot more money in it, especially when this Covid period is over and you need to take care of the waiting lists that have increased, as well as the rehabilitation of those who have really gotten out of the Covid period. There are also other signs of what lies ahead because new economic forecasts are more optimistic than the one established by the previous strategy, and thus there may be less debt and less need for invasive measures and cuts, but there is a cut-off. There's no question that if those classes of this government get to remain in their next election period, then there will be a cut-off. And who will that cut? Yes, it's been demonstrated by this government for the four years she's been working on big banks is the social security system, the unemployed and the most paid people in this country. Ministers have been kissing off, like social and child-friendly ministers and the highest. Secretary of the budget, huge increases in the social security system, 70 billion said the highest. The Secretary of Social Affairs and Child Affairs proud. But he did not tell us what was due to an increase or just a normal rise and how much the state is restored by a degree of impairment or chain - reaction. We know this, and we're repeatedly showing that what is inserted into this system, this inhumanly unscrupulous, pendant monster whose social security system has become, does not return to the pockets of those who need it. It flows through their pockets and back into their state funds or to their rural society. This tells us that the need is great, and there is much work ahead of us to make sure those groups receive the justice they have requested. We know that in these Covid epidemics, there is always one group who has sat completely behind and has not had one special resource, and that's the ones who built up this country, the older cities. It may be the most painful, it's not only good but also painful, that a large group of older citizens are good, and they don't need any special help, but it's an incredibly large group that really needs help and needs the necessary need to think that something is done for them, but they're not getting anything from this government. They kindly asked for 15,000. an increase in the last biography contracts, but it was not listened. This government did not listen to this group. And it is quite clear, according to this financial program, that they will not in any way listen to this group for the next four years if they reach power and retain their power. I'm sorry, but this group will be wide banks. There will be cuttings.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u196	Madam President. The government has put forth its last financial program and is neither a bird nor a fish. The plan does not blow the thousands of Icelanders'hopes in those who are unemployed, unfortunately. This plan is ambitious and puts together from giving a certain debt rate, below 60%, in 2026, despite the high level of unemployment as the largest nation's sector is in intensive care. We have one of Europe's lowest debts, and there is no room to face the problems of the unemployed and homes of this country. There's a lot at stake, but the government has a limited understanding of that. The government harps that it has spent so much of its activity as a result of the virus epidemic. The numbers, however, speak differently. The government constantly forces an increase in innovation to the highest level, but it does not bring back what it is to do. There is nothing about what these investments in innovation should do to many new sustainable jobs. Madam President. The terms of the budget are not being used enough to increase the number of jobs through the private enterprise, to enable the private contribution for fine works to increase the number of important jobs. Today, the great unemployment we now suffer is very expensive, not to mention the spiritual aspect and the challenges of being out - of - work. But what have we done in comparison with other nations in this way to expand our work? In the United States, 1.8 billion have been put. K. Every man in operation to expand his work, every man and woman in the United States. This is where I figure the government's actions are about 500,000 bucks. Every Iceland. Thus, we can clearly see that we are the submarines of other nations in economic activity because of the virus epidemic. But what is clear in this programme and clearly most important in the eyes of the government, which is not being looked at by the unemployed, is an aimless increase in donations to climate, an increase that we do not know what will bring, an increase that is not measured. The increase is 1 billion. each year for the next few years. V.E.G. Environment Minister has acknowledged that it is difficult to measure the results when it comes to putting money on climate. There is no success analysis, but they should follow up on such a strategy as this, on what is being planned, and on what results. There is no talk of older citizens, and nursing homes are not spoken of, but it is said to put 1 billion a year on climate issues. The climate is certainly important, Madam President, but I believe that in the situation we are in today, this unprecedented unemployment, the greatest unemployment the nation has ever seen, it would be closer to putting this billion years of living in, making important work together with the private sector. Rising to climate conditions cannot be priorities when thousands of Icelanders are out of work. Making jobs is a priority. We put money in the climate, but we do not necessarily have to raise our donations now, at this point, when we have limited funds to help those who need help. The period is expected to be 4.7% unemployment at the end of the period, which is all too high, and in the plan it says that if it becomes higher it will have to take action on invasive measures. It simply means tax promotions in good Icelandic. It's just not a direct statement because it's uncomfortable for the government. This is unrealistic, and there is an unrealistic expectation that as inflation rises, there will continue to be little growth here. On the same day that she was introduced, the pioneers of these programs were smiling. We know the reasons, that it seems that the Korean virus has taken over to the greatest disillusionment of all of us. But this plan is not about what will take place when the government's operations package is running out in May, and the number of job jobs is still increasing. The secretary of finance said in the conference on this strategy that the situation is now improving very quickly, but the minister seems to be in his own world in this regard. It's mainly private consumption and the apartment investment that makes the situation better than they expected. Public waste is the key to the failure to do so. Homes have been destroying their savings, but they cannot go on forever. It is not because of the government that the situation was not as bad as it had been predicted, although it is bad. This financial scheme, Madam President, is full of empty statements. Invested for investments that are nowhere visible, not 1k. will be put in a new national stadium, for example, and important tasks will be delayed. This schedule should be successful, targeted. It is to be about practical and efficient. These are all the missing words, showing that they are practical and that they do not meet the needs that are truly obvious to all of us. A new government is not based on this financial program, but it is normal to discuss things. This program shows that the government groups intend to adopt a methodology that produces little results and that it is good to know before elections. Madam President. The bottom line is this: A government that is entering elections with thousands of Icelanders out of work and a financial program that is ambitious and without solution. Such a government is not to be supported.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-25-74.u197	A respectable president. First, I want to say that I feel that this has been a meaningful discussion. In this context, it may be noted that for the first time, we are finishing the terms of the election, where the same government plays out a financial program for an entire term and, in the process of an election. This matter of Congress, a financial plan, indicates that there is no time for elections. On the other hand, we indicate that we have a newly released financial programme from December until the election, which remains in question. Six months, when explaining why work is not done all over again, once again, as is generally expected of a financial program. I'm going to refer to what I said in my background about this and I believe that in no way did it adversely affect the discussion here. I think we've had very good material in our hands to review what's really important, which is the big economic picture, with this discussion. Similarly, I'm going to say that I feel that I have done a great job in this financial program to bring out what now burns against us in economic matters. As we would expect, there have been differing opinions, conflicting views on whether we are on the right track or not. There's nothing new. In my mind, however, the economic forecasts published over the past few years have not been overlooked. In this process, it is important and has influenced that the government decided early in this process to get oxygen into the economy. We took a lot of money in our arms, said we wanted to do it, make use of the space that's been built up, the scholarship, the resistance in the state's affairs to alleviate the impact, to reduce the impact, thus reducing the economic breakdown. And we did more than that. We took direct action, actually investigated investments, and then we have tailored economic measures for homes and employment according to the circumstances they have developed. In this, the government's operations packs have been built, that we were at every step building on the information we had, and I think it worked well. What can a person do to show that he did well? Well, I've been here to point out factors such as the evolution of domestic income. On page 18. 31 This publication reviews how domestic income has been much more stable than during the last crisis. There's a lot more than that. I have also noted that money and consumption within the country have been at a very different level than the last crisis, which gives evidence of both the energy in the economy and the more faith in what lies ahead. It is very much, as I traced into my history, and is very clear evidence that we are in many ways far away from the position of 2009. This is positive and comes to our advantage. But it doesn't change what I've held up, and I hear a lot about this discussion, that we're dealing with very difficult unemployment. Sometimes it is just that, in this case of a pandemic, we have no way of expecting that we will be able to turn our back on the influence, that we can swing some magic wand, where the effects of 2 million tourists disappear from the economy will just be wiped out and dried up and we'll all get work right after that. Sadly, this is not a task that allows one of such a magic wand to swing over the problem. But what we have done is, in a very strong way, responding in the work - market operation to the job - related position of the unemployed. Without my going back to all that has happened, from part-time recovery to the prolongation of the income - related period and the rise of unemployment improvements and the reduction of insurance costs to increase the size of the companies and the recruitment levels and all of that, that is exactly the last actions of the government, to which the Minister of Social Affairs has been implicated, by the exact same challenge. The government has set aside large sums of money to support the Labour Department in offering companies and communities, rural areas, support in recruiting from unemployment and more support, are people who have been no longer unemployed. This has enabled us to succeed; to reduce the depth of the economic depression. But the work is by no means finished. It is normal, especially when discussing a financial plan for the future, to discuss whether we are on the right track. I'd like to say that the emphasis we've had on putting into force the government's financial affairs is correct, that it is wise to take on investment initiatives, to add support to innovation and development, and to increase the reimbursement is also likely to produce fruit in the future. This emphasis is merely to follow in the same way that has been done so far, to believe that it will eventually return to crops. That's what it's done so far. It shows the numbers. This is by far the most likely way forward in order to continue to produce results. Some would like to say that the government puts up here with an over-reaching plan, it's not taken up high enough. It may be that there is much greater Hall and that we are rushing to make economic improvements. This is answered by pointing to the date of the current year as a record. We have a 40% angle on the government's terms if we compare our angle with our income. This is a huge limp, more than 300 billion dollars a year's budget. We're taking a total of 400 billion to let oxygen into our job life if we add the specific actions and rhythm equations, i.e. how the income has shrunk together and the improving systems, the transfers have grown. This is about 400 billion that we are putting into the economy as new oxygen, with the results shown by the numbers. So when people come here, what a surprise it is to say that the government is not willing to go far! On the contrary, we're putting a record in it. There is nothing more responsible than to show that, despite all this, there is a way out of the situation. It is responsible for the fact that in 2025 we can find a new source in the budget, thus stopping further debt collections. We are talking about 2025 in this context. All the financial tips we get, including from the Sepular Bank, they are the same way that they tell us that we should reduce these extensive support measures after the effects of the Korean epidemic are over. We have hoped that it would be quite normal when the vaccination ends and the heavens are opened and tourists move again. Hence, we are gradually over the five - year period by reducing such direct support measures and setting the limit for the balance and discontinuation of debt. [[The president calls.]] Then the harbor bank comes into the picture to let oxygen in, as the bank manager has traced, including this week. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I would like to express my great satisfaction with the way this discussion has been conducted in very harsh situations, and we are offering all the help we can offer to the legal committee that now reviews the matter.
