ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-22-83.u1	A respectable president. I just want to keep it in place, though I vote by taking these documents down, that I find the treatment ridiculous, and I'll go into it in a talk afterwards.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-22-83.u2	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a member of the Committee to Re-Elect the Department of Health from the 1st. I'm not going to read the committee's opinion from word to word, Mr. President. I'm going to go for a big one. At the beginning, I want less. Councilmen say that the bill we're discussing here is a provisional warrant involving certain privileges to the minister, to get the proposal from a pathologist, to take action on the border. In general about the Management Board's coverage: We stress that it is important to complete this case and complete the progress of the decision. It is important that these measures be taken by the competent authorities. The committee discussed some of the rights of children, and the role of the committee was established that it was important that children's interests and rights were viewed in cases of disease prevention. So the first minority of the committee points to a minister in particular to these rights and to the view of the United Nations Children's Covenant when discussing these matters. Change proposals 1. Smaller parts turn to what has been referred to as high - risk areas. In 1st. The bill is authorized by a minister to oblige the field or region where adequate information about community transmission is not available to prevent contamination or isolation. The minister published a list of sites and countries considered at high risk and should generally be updated every 14 days. The report goes on to mention the use of a range of 750 or 1,000 people every 14 days. A smaller section, however, notes that the incidence of infections in the report is merely a judicial committee. It should be noted that variable levels of infectious frequency may reflect different degrees of severity, including depending on the strains of virus circulating at any time, as well as the percentage of positive samples of the number of sample taken at the local level may influence the evaluation. The review of this committee provided a view that improvement was needed to define the above aspects of the law text. A smaller section considers that legislation must provide Ministers and Surgeons with sufficient access to define high risk areas as the epidemic progresses. So it would be dangerous for legislation to define high risk areas from specific incidence factor, and a minister's assessment should be based on other factors that include. The differences in viral variants may need to be taken into account as previously observed. However, it is considered that 1. smaller items are correct that the law specifically requires that an definition of the high-risk area of the Regulation should include: look at the incidence index of infections and different variants of the virus. I think I'll just wind up next in explaining the adjustments, which say: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. We're on 1st. a. Instead of the words ▪ or adequate information, there is no available for the region to be spoken in 1st. Subject 1. come: or areas for which adequate data are not available - It's, in fact, a word change, not a change of subject. ◯b. Second verse 1. put it this way: A health - care professional is permitted to give an exception from this obligation in an acceptable way to show a traveler that he will meet all the conditions of the disease or insulation in his own homes. c. Instead of material 3. If there come two new words: Upon granting the motion of an aesthesiologist, the Precautionary Minister shall state the high-risk area. The definition includes The ability to look at the incidence of infections in certain areas and for the spread of different types of chorionic virus. It is permitted to specify a country as a high-risk area, although only part of it meets the above conditions according to the Regulation. The minister should publish a list of sites and countries that are considered to be a special high risk area with an advertisement in the Control Department. The list should be reviewed less frequently than once every two weeks. 2. Instead of the words 'high risk zone' or adequate information is not available on the area to be used in a 1st case. paragraph 2 paragraph. monitoring: high risk area, sb. Its provision for temporary treatment of disease prevention, No. 19/1997, or areas for which adequate data are not available That's how I've spoken.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-22-83.u3	Mr. President. I recommend here for the changes to the bill we deal with as regards the download houses and cross-border crossings. The modifications are found on the deck. 1280. They are so specific, so specific, and so specific, that I'm not going to read it here, so you have to say that it would be very incomprehensible. The contents of the adjustment form are in accordance with the contribution of the bill of the Group members of the United States, where a minister is granted the authority to set a Regulation requires the obligation to live in a facility. Is that warrant general, but not the way we visit here tonight. What are we talking about, Mr. President? At this point, between February 1 and yesterday, or the day before yesterday, 352 have been identified as contaminated here. We have recently seen three large groups of infections. The largest group is 48 people infected by it who sent several thousand people to their beds. The second largest group counted 12 infections. There they were under 400 contours. The third group is infected with 11 people, and we are constantly being told about more infections. This is the situation right now. We have a situation. We need to act. But action is needed. The clock is ten minutes to three o'clock Thursday. It's not that it's a good thing to do. On another occasion, we are making changes in preventative law in a totally inadequate way. This time, however, changes are not in agreement with a psychiatrist, a surgeon, or the experts who met the committee and said: "We don't need an immediate decision, we don't need a limited provision. We were so lucky that those guests who appeared to the committee, Alma Mölller, Þórólfur Guðnason, and Magnús Gottfreðsson, professor and surgeon of infectious diseases, allowed her to discuss what they had to offer. They said: "The situation is that we can compare this with the fact that the fireman had to stop at the East Hall in order to have a word with the politicians about whether he could take his way to a burning house west to get some warrant for every time he had to run out of the fire department. To cope with the situation, the government needs legal authority. The figures from Europe are two weeks old. We can't be waiting. There's a situation here and now that needs to be dealt with here and now, not in two weeks. To continue the metaphor, the house may be burned to the ground. But, of course, it's not here. We're doing fine, but we need to provide adequate clearance to the authorities. For some reason the government was afraid to take that step, she was afraid to take the step to the full. It was so prominent at the meeting of the committee today, night and evening, with the visitors who came, that we were being asked to assist all the way. It is such a dangerous situation in the world that we have a pandemic that will not depend on what we want to do. That is why we all need tools to respond. For some reason, the government does not trust to allow the authority given to last longer than July 1. The plan says 32,000 tourists will be arriving next month, 32,000 tourists. We also received information about it. We have to put the necessary authority into the law, but the kind of work we're going to see here tonight is totally unsurpassed. This shows the government's position that we don't have any part of the committee. We just have a 1st cut. We have four minor opinions. The bill wasn't made by the CDC. He was not consulted with advice on implementation. Then there were no explanations for why this was so different from the fact that we were better than we had been. When we asked a pathologist and surgeon if this was right, if this wave was any better than any other wave, if people were less ill now, and if these variations were any less milder and better at us, they simply said, "No, it's not. The younger people get sicker now. These strains are more infectious, highly contagious, and therefore need to be more approving of leaks that have been present on the border. At that time, however, the government intends to aim at some high - risk area, but only in view of the latest edition. It's just numbers. Government press conferences should not be taken seriously this week because they are just numbers that are applicable, but they do not follow. When asked if it was safe to leave one country to fly home from a secure state if they lived in an uncertain state, a high - risk state, we were also told that it could not be guaranteed. Europe wouldn't be like that. There you can drive both across borders and take a train. Of course, we have a situation that requires rapid and reliable legal action. It's a little strange that, after all that's happened, after being fired with a Regulation that had not sufficiently corrected, we're standing here in the middle of the night with this inadequate outcome, with this unacceptable mechanism. I have to say, it's not directly to increase confidence in the activities outlined here that it's permitted to do this. I don't realize the need for us to be here in the middle of the night doing this. Why wasn't it started before? Why were the warnings not answered four weeks ago? Why was the decision of the province and the Court not met two weeks ago? Why was it first responded after the Conspiracy proposed a bill to restore relief to needed measures called by a psychiatrist? Why was it first then that the health minister and the government were discouraged to try to perform something like what had been called after weeks, so that we would have no time to work it, so five members of the Committee have been sitting here with us all night trying to figure out how to be so much like it, so we're here giving speeches at three and everybody wants to go home because everyone has long been out of focus? I'm not going to do this any further, but I'm going to declare a lot of disappointment with this operation at the Icelandic International Parliament.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-22-83.u4	A respectable president. Now I have to admit that I may find it unfair to respond to what I am saying. A senator, but a good man. A member of the committee was actually the chairman of the committee, but what? 11th. We're out of Suðvest. escaped here from a drunk before I managed to ask him, and this fine piece of paper wasn't put on at once. A senator had finished his talk. So I have to ask someone else who was on the committee if there were not lawyers and lawyers who are listed here to meet the Committee and who may have felt that they should be at home in a committee party more or less after the events. I wanted to ask you what. A senator would have found anything that would normally be part of a committee's list of objects or a smaller section of 1st.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-22-83.u5	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yes, lawyers came to the committee. We've had a lot of people for the committee all day. We started by getting the staff of the government and the lawyers. We received the three that I mentioned earlier, a pathologist, a surgeon, and a professor of infectious diseases. We got the sheriff at Keflavour Airport, Reynisson at the Federal Guards, the Red Cross. We received numerous, three legalists, two jurists, a judge, an emissary of children, a lawyer from a child's emissary, or a lawyer. I'm forgetting someone. We met with a number of people, but they were not considered in a committee study to report their advice and viewpoints simply because they did not have time to do so. We were just meeting, so there was no time to put it in.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-22-83.u6	A respectable president. I'm having a crazy run, even though it's not very funny. I hereby recommend the people's move to bill, to correct the conversion of disease prevention laws and alien laws, to the striped house and cross-border. It seems that no one has overlooked how a group of people would have liked to be prophylaxis on our blessed country. I'm here to talk about our change proposal, by permission of the President: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. par. put it The law adds another provision temporarily, as follows: In spite of the 13th. 3 mg 1st par. All tourists who arrive in the country between April 22 and June 30, 2021, need to stay in a facility for no more than seven days from arrival. A South American surgeon is permitted to give an exception from this obligation in order to ensure that he will meet all the conditions of a disease bed in his own house. A tourist shall pay for a stay in a sickhouse at the end of the day. 1.mg. The application for this condition should have received at least a disease control doctor. two days before our arrival. A traveller who is granted the freedom to be in an environment of his own roads should be similarly monitored, as if by a government care center and at his own expense. It is permitted to eliminate the cost at the time of the accident. 2nd and 3rd mg. if his payment was severely burdensome to an individual because of his financial or social status. A report on the move shows that the country's life and health must be in first place, and this should ensure that by any means necessary. I'm not going to go any further into this, but I'm just going to add that it's surprising that we're going to have a health secretary's bill as far as any guest and specialists are concerned today. I hoped that I could have retracted these adjustments and could be reasonably at ease with the work being done here. Sadly, though, we do not. That's right, as a matter of fact. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir, chairman of the welfare committee, said here in a talk before me, that there were things that came up, including what was a bit striking, i.e. how the situation really is, and even when the bill, as the highest standard, was not being employed by a psychiatrist. A health minister would like to propose, was built here. Based on hearing from a pathologist, a surgeon, and those who came before the committee today, these methods are basically quite different. I had hoped we had, for example. ... cancongregate a lot of things. As an example, I mention the time limit we follow in the adjustment proposal. Also, surgeons believe that it is extremely important to get it into the law clearly and unequivocally, that a psychiatrist has the authority to which he thinks it is necessary to meet the goals of his work, which are in fact preventing an outbreak from happening here, if necessary. Now we face an unprecedented pandemic, which I hope none of us will ever have to experience again. Unfortunately, however, it is also becoming evident that modern variations are causing anxiety, causing the worries of land surgeons and local authorities. I say, there's a reason, a respectable president, not to discriminate those who come here on this border. There is reason for one thing to pass over everyone. There is reason to keep the rules predictable and clear, making them more difficult to reduce their arrival in the country than to increase the number of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-22-83.u7	A respectable president. I'm here to recommend a change of motion. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen in her absence. But first, I'd like to say that we're on Pirata's team of members, and we're behind the border to increase our freedom within the country. I'd like to make that perfectly clear. It provides a better protection for city rights, offering less interests for greater interests, less freedom for more freedom. It is especially important for travelers to know what they are walking about when they travel or head over their daily activities. Our limitations need to be taken into account because the clearness of some kind of freedom reduction is very important and is, in fact, fundamental. Human rights can be limited under the Constitution and under human rights agreements and international commitments. It is, but it is always within a particular frame. It's not to be done just because people want it. You can't just do that because people think it's important. They also need to meet the conditions set before them. One of the limitations we have in Iceland is that the type of freedom required in a recent Regulation cannot be determined without correction. What happens when such an accident occurs is that the legal right to freedom in the Regulation will be invalid. That's harmful, respectable president. I've noticed that on the other side of society, Pirates are often blamed for this or for someone else who wants to take care of these vital actions that we need to take on. But Pirata's party is not in the Supreme Court. But we warned about it. We saw this coming. It is widely interpreted as opposition to hard action. That's a misunderstanding here. It is important, when we cut down the freedom of our citizens and limit human rights of necessity, that we do the right thing, that we don't mess it up again. That's why this case is inconceivable. A respectable president. I want to underscore again and again, and have done so many times before, that even if the pace is necessary, it does not change that when we do not try, it increases the likelihood of another failure, other failures to limit human rights, and that is serious. It is the responsibility of the greater part and ours here at the General Assembly that when we are forced to go through such discussions that, by nature, we choose and listen to one another, listen to the concerns and take them seriously, even if we are also afraid, and especially because we are afraid too. A respectable president. The state of the court is not controversial. It is not subject to quirks of individual senators, that is subject to the courts, depending on the authority that the authorities have to enact regulations. Our power to make laws depends on the same limit, whether we like it or not - and should in general like it better if so. At least the authorities have to be very clear about the freedom of the citizens. That's where I deal with what I'm worried about when it comes to the bill that I want to support and think I'll support earlier today, but I'm not sure I'll do anymore. If the warrant is not clear enough, it is likely that it will be sentenced by courts, not by Congress or the government stand at the General Assembly, but by courts, and if it happens again, it is very serious. We have to be careful. We have to watch our backs. We must not succumb to the trap of viewing human rights, the Constitution of human rights, as some privilege, that is not. They're for all of us. People with sufficient privileges will likely need to be reminded of them, but the worst of them, the peripheral minority groups, and everything. According to that, I'm going to account for the changes we make here in the weak hope that some consideration may be given to her and that failures may be avoided. However, I must also say that the time we have to work this case does not provide the quality of work that we in the Congress of Pirates usually want to do. I'm going to skim over these changes. They are in two numbers and two letters within the first number. The a-complex of the previous number tells you: ▪ The child should normally be infected in a home. If you think you need to save a child at a disease clinic, your child's effects on the child should be assessed first. This should be considered whether other less effective measures can achieve the same objective and if counter-improvement measures are required to reduce the adverse effects on the child. Now I think that the greater part should be able to support this, as referred to in the opinion of my share. But somehow, I'm going to predict, in view of the trial here, which unfortunately is typical at this time, that it will not. I predict that this suggestion will be rejected for the simple reason that it does not come from the direction to which it is listened, for one reason or another. The b-item of the previous figure says: ▪ The individual in a particularly delicate position and disabled person unable to get infected in a disease - care facility because of his circumstances or disability should not be made available to such a stay. In the sentence of the Regulation: 1.mg. the United Nations Children's Covenant shall be reviewed. Individuals who are confined to a contaminating facility should have an hour-a-day curfew. Individuals who are living in a disinfectant or in isolation should have the right to inform about their rights and duties in a language they understand. None of this is radical. All of this is a covenant, and it is a goal to try to settle matters about this important matter. Of course, we are in dire circumstances, of course we are in a crisis situation, and of course we are presenting a bill that should be very cruel to all of us in nature. But we understand the urgency, we understand the threat and danger, and it should force us to be careful so that we cut our freedom as little as possible and only to reach our goal. This temporary phenomenon is called moderate but I'm not going to go into the legal language here, I expect the senators to understand it. The second factor of the transition is on 2.g. But it makes it necessary for authorities to deny foreigners, i.e. Who are not Icelandic citizens, to come to the land upon their heads. This article gives access to accessories for people, e.g. based on a farm. A respectable president. Again: It's not clear what it means. There are people who live here and have lived here for many years but who are not Icelandic citizens. We may assume that a minister will place a regulation that is humane and in accordance with what we would on a good day call human rights. But this is not clear according to the bill, so we suggest that it is made clear that foreigners who have lived in Iceland are not prevented from coming to the country. A respectable president. I think I'm gonna call it a day. It seems to me at the discussion that there's not a lot of fan to hold here, and a lot of speeches, so I think I've come up with the main thing I've got and we're in it. I just wanted to so fervently wish that at such times, the industry would not have to be impatient, that at such times, when we must stand together as a council and a nation, the General could give more support than the largest committee opinion is in the name of 1. A respectable president. It didn't have to happen this way. There was no need to screw up this regulations during the days. It could be avoided. It was quite possible to listen. You can listen right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-22-83.u8	Mr. President. We all want to stop this virus, and we want to eliminate social limitations within the country, so we can start leading a normal life. We're in a hurry. The situation of this epidemic has lasted a long time, and the people grow ever more tired and more frustrated at the end, and the damage caused by these roller coasters is increasing. It is important to follow the advice of scientists and more professional counselors than at the same time be on national solidarity. There's been a way for us to get back to the point where professional counseling has taken place. The objective of the government with the bill we're talking about here is to bring relief to people in a district hotel, the same supplies that were decided illegally three weeks ago. Of course, the purpose is to reduce the number of infections that enter the country from the border, thus reducing the incidence of infections. Also included in the bill are the rules to stop tourists from their defined high - risk destinations when they have no contact with the country and are considered unnecessary. The question that needs to be answered is, Is this particular bill the right way to achieve this goal? Other questions we have here concern our role in dealing with the situation and in protecting people's life and health without overstepping other fundamental human rights. It's a positive, indeed key, possibly an ultimatum here in my opinion that the government puts this bill as a preliminary principle. It allows for a full reexamination of disinfectants after a pandemic. It is correct for me to stop into the holes now with temporary improvements while we stand in the storm's eye and then work together as a long - term solution with a more careful review, which is not exactly the resolution of the process that has taken place here. This is of utmost importance, and it is a legal balance to protect this fundamental interest without overdoing other basic rights. And it is important that the covenant we have set for ourselves, for power and authority, be respected. This involved the judgment of the city of Reykjavík, where a minister was considered to have gone beyond the authority prescribed by the lawgiver. It's time to go to the highest. The government wants to put these changes through at high speeds. V.E.G. In a talk about the procedure earlier today, a health minister asked why the council was making a presentation in this case and taking a stand in one day after the government took two weeks from the decision of the district on the cure of the district of the district hotel - that it would have taken a long time to determine whether the government would need a legal warrant. Mr. President. I must admit that I don't think that's a strong explanation for this great hurry. Quicker handling the legal process naturally increases the risk of failure, and it could have been a lesson for the government to have been judged for its illegal actions. The government has simply tested itself what the consequences will be if anyone rushes over. But this is the situation that we are facing, and we need to take a stand on the matter. Then it is to say that the minister and the government have not exactly been convincing of the likely results of this operation. As a result, it is likely that the effect will be less than that of the government. Does that mean it's a bad thing? No. Does this mean that the situation will lead to a situation worse than the present? No, it doesn't have to be translated either. But this could mean that we had been more effective by making better use of our work. A panel of visitors, as noted in other talks, had a good review of the situation, and I miss it in the opinion of my 1st section, which is the opinion of the committee that is being worked on - this is a bit complex, but this is the case - more is done by those guests. I'd like, for example. to mention that this is, on the part of the government, underlined the risk assessment of international agreements. Iceland's Medical Association issued a review and makes a serious comment to the new definition. Instead of using a European estimate, the government provides a unique color code system that substantially reduces the number of passengers the rules are set. In the case of the medical team to appear before the committee, allowing it to be quoted, the team wanted to have access to an definition of risk assessment, in danger zones. A brain would have wanted me to take a deeper discussion of this exact issue, on the other hand, about what is involved in going this way and taking a possible risk, i.e. The result is positive and negative. What can this possibly mean? I know that the expectations are that there are enough vaccinations to put us simply at risk of taking these risks. It may well work, and I wish I would, but it would have been good to have a deeper discussion about it. Again, the question remains: Why did the matter need to be hurried instead of working to give us sound conviction for this change? For example, there are other reasons that the discussion discussed to discuss this matter more on the depth and beyond the night of the night. Notes were made that were certainly taken into account in the modification proposals of the 1st small part where the doctors indicated that more should be considered than only the incidence of transmissible infections, e.g. The severity of the virus or its different variants We simply do not know fully what the effect will be, but there are different factors. This has been ignored in a modification form which shows that the definition of the high-risk area should include: The ability to look at the incidences of infections in certain areas and for the spread of different types of Korean virus, and that change is certainly beneficial. There are also other changes to the Committee, 1 smaller parts, which are general suggestions for changing wording and thus do not include the physical changes. I would also have wanted to have a discussion about the difference between this case and the implementation in other parts of the North. At first inspection, the proposal is the highest. Health Ministers further in terms of local and individual situations in which to isolate themselves but walk shorter in terms of the duration of the infection. Discussing the evidence with and against these differences would have been a good suggestion. I'm sorry it doesn't happen, and not just for us who are working this case here but for the public. A deep conversation deepens our appreciation and helps people to understand why certain things are being expected, one of the reasons why solidarity exists. Mr. President. So I'll come back to what's left in my mind and in ours during the Cradle, it's not a negative bill. It is not negative in itself, far from it, and the goal is truly good. I'm just saying that we haven't had time to discuss the arguments and viewpoints that were behind the depth enough and that we didn't have the opportunity to respond to comments that have come out tonight. I can have my doubts that this work is the best way to achieve the success the government hoped for. I am convinced that a deeper discussion, with the entire selection of guests with the welfare committee meeting for five hours continuously, would have improved the situation. I'm absolutely sure of that. Mr. President. I'm not gonna have this much further. From the beginning, the restoration has wanted to defend its solidarity. We have drawn close this way and have suggested that there be advice from specialists in the event of a pandemic. There, the clarity of action is immensely significant and that people not only are conscious of their goal but are aware of why certain procedures and methods are proposed and not others. It was observed by a pathologist and his team that these were positive things, that, in their opinion, it was a step in the right direction. Away from the political differences of certain vital factors and from the legitimate criticism of the workplace, our attitude is that society's interests are better paid by continuing to be at peace and solidarity and that we make sure that all of us, society, are in it together, and that we will endure what we all hope is the ultimate source of this struggle. I'm going to listen to the talks that are left because I just can't make up my mind about my final stand on this matter, and there are certain things. I'm just hoping that this speaker's stepping right here in a punk that can convince me. But for a backup, I'm going to dig a little bit deeper into my conference from a marathon meeting of the welfare committee earlier tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-22-83.u9	Madam President. I had the privilege of attending this long marathon meeting at a welfare committee, which lasted until midnight, on behalf of the Middle Party. Unfortunately, none of the factors I thought were necessary to correct when the bill was submitted here last night, to improve the treatment of the committee today, and it appears in the opinion of a reduced part of the welfare committee, so called, which is now in spite of all so-called more things. Under that view, four members of the board, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son, Þóra Enan Árnadóttir, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, and Vilhjálmur the Árnason of Aarna. More is involved and support is not in this situation. I asked most of the guests at least front of the meeting, why are you so excited about it? The government has been breaking up with this problem for weeks, but then the council gets 24 hours to finish it. We are sitting here at four o'clock in the morning, and nothing has yet been opened but to get it done within 24 hours. And the answers, when asked why there is such a hurry, are primarily made that it is so good to finish it right away. But when it comes to research, it is of little importance if any matter that the council had an extra few days, not to stop the matter or anything like that, but only to improve what is truly needed. But no mention could be made of the representatives of the greater part. The fact is, the effects of this law, which will soon be taken care of here, will not be kept tomorrow, but will not be kept until next week. The real delay in this case, which the government so illuminating at the beginning of the month, that it was in public reading, the time they brought in better on the basis of this new legislation, would not be the time for anyone to work the case in an impossibility way. I just want to reiterate that the government has been running this case for weeks, and preferably with the argument that it was being evaluated for the need but finally, when there is a need for it, it has to be done within the day. This isn't a good thing to do. Unfortunately, there is much in your mind to suggest that the government will land in a haystali similar to that of the beginning of the month when a federal court issued a decision that the Ministry of Health had not improved. In view of this, there is nothing else in this situation than that the government has full and complete responsibility for this matter as it is already under control. I think everyone agrees that these matters need to be explained. Some feel that the border should be locked up, as it is called. Others want to take steps back, to lighten up, to open more, to reduce limits and obstacles. But the way this bill is, there's neither way we're going. This matter is not a bird or a fish as it is available. V.E.G. A health minister, along with his representatives, asked about the flubber, in the same way that has appeared in the viewpoints of a historian and other representatives who have spoken the case by a health minister, was the rational support for the need for this high speed not stronger than even the representatives of the government of the Committee all write on the subject as it is known. Next came the highest. Justice minister for the committee holding one of two regulations that should form what the law structures. The Regulation is that approximately everyone whose imagination allows you to list is one or more ways that it escapes in part or in all respects. It seems that the only ones who do not fall under the exception of the regulations of the Minister of Justice as already planned are tourists who have come down to the country until a short time to participate in the festival of Gingadala, who want to take a look at the eruption, and then go out again. It is not much larger than what really does not depend on any of the regulations of the Regulation as it is presented in the draft. For the committee, there were other government representatives without my considering the details. There, Dr. Alma Möller, and Dr. Magnús Gottfreðsson came by Þórólfur Guðnason. True, their viewpoint was that explaining these factors would improve, and the first time would be the best. But there was nothing in their language that made me feel things that would have to happen at the speed here. My understanding was that it would be far more beneficial for the council to take a little more time to do things properly and to arrange for any goal. It is as difficult today as it is for most other days to identify the real goals of the government. But again it was completely unclear why it was so urgent after the last few weeks. Next came the developers, those responsible for carrying out things on the basis of these rules. The representatives of the Red Cross arrived here, who have been responsible for driving this so - called disease - control house so far. Most of them may recall the outcry that came from their last illegal decree, followed by digestion that all outdoors that had not been allowed in the disease camps as they were allowed in the first class. Then the day came when the representatives of the Red Cross, which were given no warning, had been discussed with a single comment to ensure that those staying in a facility had to be left out. The committee noted that by the end of May, it is estimated that more than 1,000 people, if I correctly understood the evidence, will be exposed to a codhouse. It was determined by which flights are scheduled for the country, the number of passengers, where they come from, and so on. I have no idea that the representatives of the Red Cross have come to realize that they will have a duty to ensure that 1,000 people are out of the way today. I don't think any man sitting on this committee meeting today would agree that the representatives of the Red Cross are prepared for this mission and no matter what the environment of the hotels. It was also through the viewpoints that turned to fines and so on the streets, but I'm not going to go on it. What I may be most concerned about, after considering these smaller parts, the 1st minority of welfare committees, after this marathon meeting, is this: There is absolutely no lack of consideration for the viewpoints and warnings given by jurists, lawyers, who appeared before the committee. There is no doubt that a very specific cautionary statement was made that using the current budget, it would be a problem for the most distant people to face. Of course, this whole set of laws must be considered and then these two regulations, one from the Minister of Justice, and the other from the Minister of Health, who implements what is authorized by the law. I think that, after these visitors, the view must be that there is going to be too much room for regulations, much more than desirable, and necessary, given the way the situation is. The Senate would have had to put much more instructions, much more material, into the law itself on which the regulations would have been based. This is absolutely failing, perfectly. I simply couldn't believe it when I read the committee opinion 1. It was my section, the so - called majority of the Committee, where this is not exactly said, not just the case. I'm just saying, good luck with this. I'm just gonna figure it out here and now we're gonna have some walks in the national courts over the next few weeks and months because of the fugitive on this case. It is simply so that although a pandemic may pass over them, the legal rights must not be left behind. We have to protect it. It is our direct duty to defend the state of justice at the General Assembly. I don't think we're doing very well on this assignment today, as it stands before us. We need to keep in mind that the Constitution and the standards of average honor are not just for a punt. I'm not gonna have this any further now. There is little chance that the matter will be changed below. I just reiterate what I entered at the beginning of my speech, that the responsibility in this matter is absolutely exclusive to the government classes. The middle class does not intend to take any responsibility for the flufrabbling that is being done here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-22-83.u10	A respectable president. It was mentioned here at 1st. This point is that part of the professional legislation in this area, when it comes to reducing the freedom of citizens as much as is suggested, the so - called average grace. This includes some. evaluation of the need for the procedure as well as the ability to achieve the same result, with a less effective strategy. I tore it up here in 1st. that there were certain things that should be viewed. I mentioned it and want to reiterate it here that it seems to me that we have achieved the most and best results in the battle against this virus when we consider personal disease prevention, when each one of us takes care of himself and also respects other people's disease prevention. For the treatment of pre-existing disease. The welfare committee on this case was not informed about the need for this legislation at this time. Like I also tore up 1st. the incidence of cross-border infections is low, has rarely been lower than exactly now. Recent news reports, just now in the night, are that next week there are tens of thousands of doses of vaccine coming in addition to the vaccine doses that have already been used and that have ensured most of the fragile in this country and a large proportion of them called full vaccinations, although even one dose of all these products seems to produce remarkable results in fighting the virus. In view of this, I feel that there is a problem with providing a bill that promotes intensive action on the border under certain circumstances. I might first mention, of course, that it is a serious matter for people not to respect current rules and regulations that have been diseased for decades for infestation and isolation. Of course, reports of such offenses, so - called sanctuaries, and especially of violations of the rules of isolation, are a source of great disappointment. However, this does not change the relatively low context of parts of the habit. They have been 122 since the outbreak, about 24 of which this year. I have repeatedly requested information on the extent to which the proportion of these causes can be considered as a result of infection. This information was not available in the management of the Committee, but I consider it to be basic information to assess the need to deal with so-called sinus fractures. It seems to me that this bill is rooted in a single cessation of habits that has been reported, which has certainly caused a lot of trouble in the capital and out of the nursery, in all those associated with this nursery. That's right, it's certainly caused trouble. Yet, it is only one specific infestation, not a lot of stories or reports, much less confirmed information, of the diseases resulting from this microbial offense. That's at least information not available in the Committee. In other respects, the bill offers a variety of conflicting issues, and some were discussed on the committee. For example, this matter can be disputed, and even the first news of this bill has not yet been understood, and it even required members of the committee to keep their place in order to understand what is meant by the phenomenon of high - risk areas. It turns out that these are not just unique countries, as I think that men may be able to see, i.e. that such actions were normally directed against entire lands, but it is found that human ideas were far more extensive than that. High - risk areas may include small areas, scar areas, in a large and large country. This would mean that a whole country would be considered a high - risk area, although only a small part of the country meets the criteria for the incidence of infections and other factors required by the bill. This is a problem that is vague in the bill itself. It is also evident that the length of travel between countries could be debated as a result of the urgent efforts. What trips are necessary, and what journeys are unnecessary? It is also possible to wonder when, as the law puts it, a person is considered to be able to stay in his home in an environment of infection or isolation. These are examples of regulations in the law itself, in the bill, that were encouraged by various members of the Committee to clarify further, i.e. that these factors would be explained more in the law text itself rather than in the report itself, as it is and in some vague way, and much less in the Regulation itself, while the committee received a copy of the idea of a Regulation which, unfortunately, seemed to be far beyond the original text, the Law text may have a basis. They were encouraged to discuss the need to explain. However, rather than follow the advice of the visitors whom the committee received in writing and planning, the way that the Law text itself was clearer to the standards set out there is for the change from the 1st minority of the committees to increase the freedom of the government's evaluations. I pay attention to such exorcists in power, only to ensure free food. It may be possible to see through your fingers with it in some cases, but this is a case that makes it less convenient for me, so that I don't take a deeper course in the years, to arrange for government to have free assessments of important definitions of the Law text, such as what constitutes a risk area, what makes it necessary to travel between countries and the streets. You see, I'm right here on the decline of fundamental rights, and it's supposed to be very careful when such a decrease is made by law. Visitors were also advised that it was proper to consider options that minimize this freedom as well, i.e. whether there were no less effective ways to the same degree. It is also noted in a fine verse that the Committee received from Amnesty International, which, for example, did not give special reviews about the bill, was not requested, and few have seen fit to give themselves a review of the bill itself. But Amnesty International sent a message to the Committee pointing to the newly published international report Amnesty International, which was actually released on September 21, last year, on the very matter of a legal stay in the concierge due to the Korean epidemic in several South America countries. There, in some countries and perhaps in other parts of the world, people have walked very close to universal human rights under the pretext of protecting public interests from the outbreak of crown fever. The recommendation of Amnesty International to all the governments in the world includes: that governments make sure that the spears are not specifically at or punishable by certain groups of society by means of conjugal measures. You may wonder, " Is it almost a matter of time before this legal bill, which, underscoring a considerable number of other measures, is taking special action toward a narrow group of people? ' Amnesty International also recommends that governments avoid the use of criminal action or threats to induce the continuation of hardened restrictions due to the outbreak of crown virus. But what may be most important here, these are many suggestions, and I think it is right to draw special attention to, is a recommendation to ensure that the directive is only used as final measures for less invasive measures, such as Home arrest after return to the country, has proved ineffective, or will become clear that government goals will not be achieved by other means. This is a very serious recommendation to the government, and I don't think any human would have to remind him to be guided by any form of disease prevention. It will be possible to wonder, then, whether or not the same objectives could be achieved in this country with less resources than that there are relatives in a passengerhouse, especially in view of the low levels of the stress fractures that have occurred since the outbreak, and particularly in view of the fact that there is no evidence of the number of fractures that have resulted in infections. In addition, I want to say that the Children's Office also appeared before the committee and pointed out that despite all kinds of covenants, the EEA Convention and whatever, the rights of children to bear in mind are not the only ones to take into account in the International Children's Convention. These first-line anti-preservation measures, such as, for example, are intended for children for the first time. The screening of the border that is particularly difficult for children and is not carried out by professional workers on the border, and also staying in a hospital for five days, is an example of action that would be particularly difficult for children and would have been justified in evaluating the need for the procedure and not achieving the same objective, the same result, with a less invasive procedure. Nothing is so bad that something cannot be celebrated, even though it may offer no good. This bill, though, can have what it has, and that is, it is in this sunset setting. On June 30, the authority of the two Ministers to set disease prevention measures with these impairments falls. It is truly brilliant and is part of a moderate measure of the need for these measures to remain firm. It is also appropriate to draw attention to the fact that this is merely a warrant for implementing certain disease measures, not mandatory. I'm the highest. In particular, Minister of Justice to consider whether or not there is a need for implementing the regulations that this law permits. Compared to the ultimate power. The minister of justice has presented the committee in its own way only I can see that it in itself is meaningless, for it is free of almost everyone you can think of. Then I don't think men should put in such regulations alone for their virtualism. I encourage it to the highest. A minister would actually consider whether there is any need for a second requirement. This bill is advising. They may ask, " Why have I not been able to participate in this committee party with a 1, a smaller portion, which would then have been a major part of the committee? ' It is to say that I am not able to support this matter, although the work is better than much else in these treatment laws in general. But I don't think there is, as I've described, an adequate explanation of the need. I think this bill is going far beyond the necessary level, and I think the same results can be achieved by less measures. I don't think it's a bad example. There is a bad example for the future, not just in connection with the viral epidemic we now have, but in a demand for comparable action over a variety of other matters, not just health issues and not just viral issues, but other matters. I am not ready to make a success of such an example in times of distress, as is the case today. It is creating a very complex system, heavy - metal, cost - priced system, of a relatively simple object compared to the most efficient method that has worked, which is the personal health control and the cooperation of the public and the government of non-lawized measures that have given the best opportunity.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-22-83.u11	Madam President. The government presented this case 16 days after the judgment of the province, but just two days after the United Nations decision, which seemed to cause much more anxiety. The case was presented for a peculiar press conference of the government that seemed to have been quickly blown up. In spite of all this tendency, whether we count the two days from the Commonwealth or the time since the reign of the State or all the time that the government has had, more than a year, to prepare properly for legislation in this field, however, the council will have a day to finish the matter and has had no allowance to make a thorough examination. In fact, it was a barrier to an committee's openness, although this is obviously a matter of concern to the public, I do not talk about the non - members of Congress. The welfare committee. I thought it was a declared goal to listen to expert advice, but most members of the Parliament were not allowed to do so today. They were just supposed to agree. In fact, even the committee itself had little room to ask that anything that might be needed because of the speed of the case being run through a single meeting. It seems clear, though, that the problem really does not change the spread of the border, nor would it have had any effect on the recent outbreaks. In fact, it is only complicated, increasing legal uncertainty, rather than achieving certain goals. This is all evidence of being primarily political, of being able to hold a press conference, and of pretending to be doing something. However, the government has resolved to complete the case overnight, no matter how many warnings are made. Then she must be responsible for this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-22-83.u12	A respectable president. It would be wish we could support this case at this point, but as I studied in my speech earlier, at least I can't, unfortunately. I'm sorry. I think the aim is necessary. I'd like to mention in particular that I'm going to be embarrassed by the Union's change proposals for the sole reason that I haven't had time to form a final opinion of them. I thank the Group of Congress, though, for volunteering them. Then, of course, I'll vote with the changes we've made, but I'll vote against the move made by Shockers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-22-83.u13	Mr. President. For three weeks after the federal court issued a health minister's decree, the government was in hand. It was not until the Constitution proposed a bill that would have brought relief to the necessary minister's regulations that the government finally carried on and ran to. Yesterday, therefore, two prime signs of changes in disease control laws were issued, one from the United States and the other from the government. While the Network bill guarantees disease control authorities and ministers sufficient data, adequate clarity, and essential evidence, the government's bill does not expect any of this. At the top of the purchase, the government chooses to redefined international risk assessments, however, and its time limit is far too high. So I can't do anything, and neither can the Conspiracy, support the government bill. And I find it sad that the divisive government prevents necessary action in these times.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-22-83.u14	Madam President. We here vote on the prescribing regulations, temporary to over eight weeks, in order to ensure that the competent authorities have the tools needed to keep fighting and to stop the epidemic. Our left movement's team of green bids will vote with this bill to end an important factor in getting all of us as whole and uninjured through this epidemic as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-22-83.u15	Madam President. We finally have the government bill in the hands of tourists who have been or have stayed in an area where the incidence of infections is considerably elevated, as stated in the bill's text, to stay in an environment or in isolation in a place of infection. This is indicated by the United States Parliament's party's announcement that we have a bill ready to fire legal clearances for the removal of travelers in a convalescent or in isolation in a cartel. The current legislation is important and necessary, but unfortunately it is all too late and badly, although the occasion is much. Unauthorized questions remain in the bill, such as how tourists are to demonstrate sufficiently that they will meet all the conditions of the disease beds in their own homes, or about the plans of the Icelandic government to reevaluate risk assessments for which international agreements exist, which provide the basis for European treatment measures. Errors with the loud numbers of incidences in bill report at the highest level. Healthcare Ministers are critical to the fact that the majority of the health committee's rights to their adjustment proposals are restricted to reference. Madam President. It is clear to everyone that the people of the country have been calling for military and decisive action on the border. At that time, we have listened and responded to the United States Congress. This bill is some kind of attempt to please both sides of the board rather than to respond clearly to its appeal.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-22-83.u16	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-22-83.u17	A respectable president. Indeed, it is true that the nation is calling for military action on a border, and it has been listened to and actually spoken to since January 2020. In our proposal to change, we go toward what has been done in the city of New Zealand and Australia. We set aseptic bed for everyone in a fishing house, and it's pretty hard to believe that they don't have to worry about it from the government position - or not, because governments responded, not just because of some new issue of the Conspiracy, but because they went under the water when the virus began to flow back within the country. It was, in effect, because they had been waiting for two weeks since the fall of judgment, and all of them lost relief under what they thought they were doing. Still, it is difficult to vote against a government or health minister's proposal because it is a fact that it is actually hardening the border, even though it may be a bit of an image.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-22-83.u18	A respectable president. In my heart, I'd like to vote with this proposal. We're just in the situation that we haven't had enough time to discuss this matter, so I'm staying with you. I wanted to come up here and mention it.
