ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u1	Borist has received a letter from Thorhildi Sunna Ævardóttir, 7th. We're out of here. "that she won't be able to perform Congress in the near future. Today, then, at the World Council of 1st, a deputy of Pirata's district district, Sjöfn Sjön Helgadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u2	Eva's Sjöfn Helgadóttir has already been investigated and agreed, but it has not previously taken place in the Council and is therefore to be signed as a commitment to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u3	Sjöfn Sjön Helgadóttir has signed her commitment to the constitution and is welcome to work at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u4	The president wants to report that he has received a word from the baptismal party for the change in committees, cr. 1.mg. 16th Congress, so Ágúst Bjarni Garðarsson takes up residence as the head of the European Þórarinn Department of Security and Cooperation rather than the Lilja Rafney Islands Sigurgeirsdóttir and Líneik Ingi Pétursson, in the Environmental and Transport Committee of the European Union. These changes will be considered approved without a vote if they do not object.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u5	The president considers it possible for a meeting to last longer than the Council of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u6	Mr. President. The Senate is a very narrow cut here before Christmas because historical lengths began to form a government. That is why we must wonder about all dates on any preliminaries, and I especially want to draw attention to the 12th - day program, known as Moustcal. It was in September last year that reports on the lack of questions from investors about buying Milu. It was April this year that she sold an inactive wood. It was July this year that a number of investors were said to be preparing a purchase offer in Milan. Why was the last winter not used to make this bill legal? Then they found the sale at Milli in the National Security Council of November 11, a month ago, Mr. President. A month ago, the National Security Council was meeting this bill, which is important for Christmas to be completed. And not just before Christmas, but before the weekend. Before the next weekend, the council has finished a case that was distributed on December 10. We have less than a week to complete a case as government, and the one she was before the election has been in her arms for a year. Mr. President. This is not easy. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u7	A respectable president. I want to agree with those words. senators who spoke before me. I feel that all of these events reveal a great lack of concern, apathy toward this important matter, and at the same time stress how the government, once again, is associating with the council. It no longer takes to speak what attitudes are repeatedly expressed on the part of the government when we are discussing important issues, fundamental issues, issues involving national, national security, etc. There will be no way to resolve the matter if the national security issues are extremely important. We're not going to get caught. But I pray to the government, and I pray to the President of the Parliament to do the best of business. I beg the Speaker of the Council to pressure the government to show more respect for the council than has ever been. This is an enormous case, and we need time to review it. We need to be careful, for the interests of the people of all nations are great, and this is not a case that the government can maintain until the last five minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u8	Mr. President. I would now have forgiven it if I had been overtaken because I have nothing new materially to offer. But I'm going to agree with this, and I thought it was interesting when it happened. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson crossed the timeline. Then there was a picture so unusual in Icelandic society that we are always reacting. We are always responding when we have either come up against a wall or are on our way there. Somehow, we need to get to the line and start making rules and laws that make sure we don't get into a bad situation and we don't have to get in a lot of time. However, I would also like to criticize that of the eight weeks that we had a right to deal with some sort of agreement and protest or to discuss with these parties, the Council is merely intended to arrive for the last three or four days.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u9	A respectable president. I just want to make the most of it on this occasion. It's supposed to be the longest discussion of a particular subject today, in view of the fact that the Migraine language appears to be priority despite the day's schedule. Now it seems that there is no provisional access, to primes at the highest level. Minister of state, out of 2023, if I understand correctly, at least Partially. It can hardly be spoken of as a temporary change or as a temporary change. This border, in the context of the parts, with a permanent change, so I think it will require much more discussion than the actual temporary adjustment of the order we have here. So I want to point the top. It may be wise for a president to reorder the points of the meeting, since extending the provisional principle in 1923 calls for a much greater discussion than I had anticipated.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u10	President. I agree with the people who have spoken here. I'm also concerned that it turns out that these temporary laws are to be extended for so long. I think it takes a lot of discussion, and at the end of the program, I think it's strange to keep this important subject, which is the communication and sale of Milu. I suggest we rethink it. But there is no desire for me to prevent that matter from getting decommissioned, for it is an important matter. But it also involves the way we are repeatedly taken for rapid treatments, which are important for repeated consideration. And this is also true of other matters to come on the agenda, such as EU types and other things that have been known for weeks to be settled and could have been arranged long ago, before elections, to resolve that matter. Hence, the council is being put in such a position that we must quickly resolve matters that would have really been of no need to be taken care of. I just want to protest it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u11	Mr. President. In my conversation with the highest. The prime minister of last week talked about rather than about a dramatic rise in the estimated amount of fauna that is due to be found in budgets, which is just in case of inflation, and is under two percentages under commercial development. V.E.G. The prime minister explained that it was planned to complete a reevaluation of the social security system during this terms. The government did not succeed in the last four years, but, of course, such refinements are absolutely necessary, we cannot accept that these people are constantly left in this impossible position and left behind. Last week, however, the question arose. paritaprevir Guðmundur Igngi Ingi of his name, Guðbrandsson, U.S.A. Social and workforce minister, as well as the case of disability. The senator asked the minister if there would be a tax-free $50,000 bill. in December such as last year, which would not be affected. V.E.G. So a minister gave the clear answer no. There was no such thing. Now 50 grand is changing. Not an unjust system, but it could have a powerful effect when Christmas is approaching and inflation is on the highest level and everything is much more expensive. So I ask the highest. Prime Minister if she wants to confirm answers to the highest degree. Social and employment minister or if she is willing to exert herself for the payment of this remuneration as well as for this Christmas.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u12	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for recording this case. It is, of course, true, as the Supreme Court showed. Social and workforce minister last week, that such a remuneration is not expected in the budget bill. However, the last thing I pointed out was that contributions made to microsurgents are expected to increase more than they have had in recent years, i.e. percent higher than the usual increase of approximately 800 million. Then, too, I would like to point out that according to the system we live in, we get donors of pensioners on December. One of the things to consider, of course, is that the differences between these systems are still that a particular decision needs to be made every year regarding the December suitability of jobseekers. It's not in the system right now, it's in pensioners. I pull it out because I think it's so important, and I know that what. A senator agrees with me that we approach these matters right away from the view that there is a need for an overall review of the system. We took certain measures that were agreed on here by the Generals during the last term, and then I quote that there was a loss on the job and that there was a decrease in the gap between reforms. Still, it is true that this has been a change that certainly turned up 4 billion clauses, that we still have a system that doesn't hold a mind. Hv. A senator asks, and I'm saying here: Of course, the budget is for Congress now, and I know it's going to be discussed in a legal committee, such as other national contracts. I think it's so that we just take our stand on the work that comes from the budget. I, however, look to it, and I repeat that I think we are. A senator will agree that this review is needed and the system as it is currently does not meet the demands of our modern society to a fair microenergy pension system. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u13	Mr. President. Yes, in this increase, which has one percentage point of 5.6%, it will do no more than just hold on to inflation, and it will be under pay conditions in the country. The follow-up, as we know, will all be impaired. She zeros out on tax returns, and the payments are also impaired, so it does not help these people. I'll agree with the highest. Prime Minister, we need to revise the system. But I also agree with the highest. Prime Minister when she spoke up. Some years ago, a senator: It is inhuman to keep these people waiting. So I ask, don't we have 900 million to pay these 50,000 bucks? Is it out on Christmas so these people can watch a happy vacation, too?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u14	Mr. President. Hv. A senator knows as well as I do that we are, of course, running a government fund into a considerable angle. Hence, it is vital that we see how we can look ahead by reaching them down. But I can agree with what. A senator that it is important that we look especially at the poorer micro-energy pensioner now as usual. Hence, an additional increase was made in this group, and not in others. That's why we've been directing funds to reduce the number of impairments. I view the matter as being part of a financial committee that will consider this, and I know that it will consider whether there is a basis for further action.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u15	A respectable president. You almost come here with tears in your eyes and tears in your throat after what I heard above. But this does not change the fact that there is now an invalid, a mother of four children crying and dreading Christmas every year, every year, and on the authority of a once-in-a-year government. An overall review of the system, December updates, and considerable balance that we should know is in the state's budget. I wonder if this angle in the state's budget was already under way. The minister of finance appeared before the international media and said that the cost of this Minister who has been currently under the government's direction would probably run at some hundred million. Senators have received hundreds of mail from fearful parents, unhappy families asking for help. We're not talking about December satisfaction, which is why. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson correctly pointed out that the end would come. Once more than 30,000 dollars have been deposited. The bank book with the desperate and old-tempered pensioner, who gets nothing but a striped social security bill, there'll be nothing left. It'll cut everything apart; home remuneration, rent-imbursed, it'll cut everything. The remaining value is 0. Is this December supplemented by someone who can be proud of? The answer is no. It's a bear joke that doesn't do anything for the poorest people in the country. I'm asking the highest. The prime minister who has repeatedly stated, twice in September 2017, that making poor people wait for righteousness is the same as denying it for righteousness: Has the highest priority. Prime Minister didn't get this call for a little Christmas bonus, a tax and impairment, that really uses the families, which can actually put an assessment on the plate, who doesn't let our real children go to the Christmas cat? Is it surprising that I ask? There's nothing to tell about the poor and the elderly who don't have salt in their porridge, even though this long - term insurance system is due to be reassigned. There's nothing to say. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. Prime Minister: Will you try to help poor people before Christmas by giving them paid off Christmas?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u16	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It reflects exactly what I've been saying. Here we go. A senator up there talking about the decline in the system, and that's exactly what I've been talking about here, that we have a system where each additional upsurge will impair either other types of credits or other incomes. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed that this system should be revised here in some reproach, that it should have an overall review? Got it. When it stands right here, does a senator not speak of exactly what is wrong in the system, which is these limitations? Of course, there is something that we need to attack and that has been exactly what has been a priority with what was done during the last term, in terms of both the loss of employment and the limitations of the same team. This is what we've got. A senator, of course, spoke many times. Hv. Of course, a member of the body can discuss the December, a figure of 64,000. for organisms that live alone, but that's exactly what he does because the system is thus built up. I'm not going to hesitate to say: "Yes, I think it's important to reevaluate this system. That may well be the problem. A senator disagrees with me, and that's just the way it is. I'd also like to point out what I said earlier in the previous year, which means why. Einarsson The fact that on the part of the government, on the other hand, there is an additional increase in the number of disability pensioners because we want to meet that group. The case is now for a plagion treatment of a budget board, and I pointed to it earlier, and I can do it again that she is likely to consider this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u17	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The prime minister for no answer, for I did not expect much. I simply asked if they should help these people now before Christmas. And it's totally being put into my mouth when I'm here talking about an off-duty insurance system, if the top. One minister has taken it to the point that I feel that the whole system is all right with me. That's not true at all. I'm not talking about this one, 1%, that pussy that's supposed to hook them, that's still making the kunks go by New Year's Eve. That's not what I'm talking about, you know? That's not what I'm talking about. Prime Minister. I'm talking about Christmas, which will be here in about two weeks. I'm talking about that time, Christmas Eve, 12 days from now. I'm talking about whether poor people and poor people can buy something else and do something other than keep cooking oatmeal and having rice rice rice for dinner. I'm talking about coming down to the earth to those who are in need, and only looking out for their own well - being and their own prosperity and their own wallets of money and meeting our people who are asking for help now. I'd appreciate it if I did. The prime minister answered the question I was asking about now, not after a year - old or just as it was yesterday. I'm talking about now.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u18	Mr. President. I'm glad to hear it. A senator wants to reevaluate the system because there is a great need to try to create a parapolitic solidarity over how we want this system. [[Up front.]] Mr. President. As mentioned in my case earlier, the clear will of the government is reflected in the order to look specifically at this group in the budgetary bill that is here to treat. Hv. The body of elders has this opinion, and it can take a position on further improvement in that area during concierge treatment. [[For example, consider: The answer?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u19	A respectable president. I'd like to talk to the highest possibles. Secretary of electrical security. There's been a lot between the teeth of society for years, especially on the watch of this government and the first. The energy issues have also, well - meaning, especially been on the Independence Party scale over the last nine years, and little or nothing has happened, and even so it's like a storm, and natural disasters are enough to make the government bedridden in these waters. There's a lot of talk, Mr. President, but there's not much to do. It is not acceptable in 2021 that a country's home and businesses do not have access to electricity, that there are discrimination between people and businesses by dwelling or location on the country in regard to these basic infrastructures. A powerful transport system is the key to its survival, as we know, that industry and innovations are allowed to flourish throughout the country. It was interesting, I thought, to see the management team come back to life, these same categories that have been responsible for the transport system over the last nine years, due to the reductions in electricity for the large production. It is certainly a serious matter that the big corporations wherever they are in the country do not have access to electricity. However, the reductions in electricity have been going on in the West, on the Southnes, in the Eyjafjörður, and elsewhere. I'm really worried that we're getting another four years of this same old, much talking and much talking, but then there's not gonna be much work to do. So I want to ask the highest. energy and climate minister: What's his opinion of the existing situation and the inaction that has existed? Who is responsible for the incomplete transport system and the situation facing humans in many parts of the world?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u20	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I can agree with a lot of issues. Senator. It's only very good if this group gets attention because it's very important. Hv. A senator refers to something that we feel is probably an electrical security device. But, hey. A senator also attributed that we have seen that there are better things to be done there. But I think it's a little unfair with what. A senator speaking as if nothing has been done about it. However, there is no doubt that this has not received the attention that it should receive. I can guarantee you what. The senator, for the person standing here will not be sitting with him at the time of this dispute. This is not just about what we think is probably today. We're going into energy exchange again. When we did so in the past, it was a very successful step. For a long time we were -- I don't know if it's right to say we've been alone in it, but at least we had a very special position in the world when it came to using renewable energy. I think we're probably still in the front row. There is no doubt that we have set ambitious goals in climate matters. We are going to be on the front of an peer, and that just means one thing: We need to make sure that not only is electricity security here but we need to be available for renewable energy. That's what you're telling yourself.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u21	A respectable president. There's a lot in the matter of a minister that I'm pretty happy about. He admits, and I feel honest that there was a certain lack of attention to these matters. I'd like to encourage the highest. Ministers I know well in this regard. I have not, like him, traveled all over the country for an ideal week in the last few years and decades without having the electricity issue being discussed. I've mentioned Southnes, Westfjordur, and Eyjafjörður. Of course, this is in the face of the responsibility of the present - day governments. That's just the way it is. That's why I'm happy if I'm finally going to do something and I want to encourage the minister to continue the ceremony. This must be supported by sustainable views, green energy, green investments, transport security, security for our people. It's a matter of equal opportunities and conditions, dear President. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: What will the minister himself do? What will be his first steps to ensure that transport safety becomes better, so that there will be no doubt about the people in the country whether Christmas steaks are allowed in the oven without the use of electricity in many homes? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the urgency. However, I must inform it here in front of a council and nation that I will not be able to solve the climate crisis before this Christmas. It's just a matter of time. We are taking tremendous steps, and it is extremely important that everyone be aware of this. This is a green revolution. A lot of this is so, especially when it comes to electronics, that, unfortunately, it takes time to prepare and also act, we know what I'm doing. Senator. Now it's not that you come to an empty table, it's not. I hope, however, that the question arises. The senator points out that here in this hall we will be discussing these matters, and I rejoice at that. A senator grants me and the government and the administrative part of this matter. [[The president calls.]] There's something I'm really celebrating, and I hope there's a good deal of solidarity going on about what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u23	A respectable president. On this occasion, I intended to redirect a inquiry to the highest level. Environment, energy, and climate minister and in terms of global peace Dranga in Aarnesppa and possible impact on surrounding ground. V.E.G. In the morning the minister says: "It's been going on for a long time and it seems to have been done well. It's a go-to-back call. Minister that he is not going to make further comments on the matter. Then the highest. The secretary of this interview has received two messages from the landowners of the surrounding land, on the one hand, a letter on behalf of the owner of the Unpreserved Earth, which makes the above clear requirements for the environmental ministers, the EEA and Dranga authorities, to confirm that Dranga's declaration of peace has no effect on the national boundaries of Dranga. And furthermore, the letter says by permission of the president: As the Declaration of Peace shows, its domain of influence extends to the entire S.H.I.E.L.L., Dr. Dr. Argevík, and considerably into our earth. It goes on to say that landowners don't comment on the peace-infested place, so I don't think anybody will do it on their own - but then it's just her own. Then came a letter, one of the owners of two separate Drangas, the S.H.I.E.L.L.A., north of Davanga, and southern Drangavík. In his letter, he stated that the effects were not formally presented to the owners of S.H.I.A. and Dr. Drangavik. This letter, signed by Guðrún's daughter Anna Gunnarsdóttir, is addressed by the president's permission: I don't comment on people or communities making peace with their country, but only their country. In this context, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Have these 5 km marks been identified specifically beyond what is stated in a memo sent to the environment and transport committee? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And there's a chance you can do it at the highest. Minister to make such a statement, as requested in these two letters received from landowners today and yesterday? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u24	The president reminds us that the time for a talk is limited in unsubstantiated requests and asks why. Councilmen and Ministers to take this into account.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u25	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the queries. Hv. In my last question period, a senator called attention to this matter. As a result, I called for information about this peace description and sent to the chairman of the column. The Environment and Transport Committee, and I expect it and, in fact, know that it was a problem. Committee members. All the questions that arise. A senator or someone else is concerned about this matter. I think it will be better if we get the questions that have come up and answer them materially. However, when it comes to these forms of peace, I am not just talking about this earth, that is one of the things we need to discuss. We've been at peace with a great deal of the country. I wonder if it's high in one-third of the country, something like that. These are now 32 areas. Of course, all aspects of the procedure are involved. Thank you. A senator for the interest in this matter and will try to inform him and others as well as I can about its unique features, for it is of course very important that everyone be aware of what is going on. But when it came to this matter, as it were, it was the case. A senator knows, because I know that what. A senator has read the memo, then this process began in 2018, if I recall correctly, and I can only see that the rules on these things have been very detailed. But if there are any other questions about this, you may want to try to answer them as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u26	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The minister's answer may not have been meaningful. Then I'm going to ask you a very specific question: I am going to come up with an opinion, the highest. Minister, that the minister published a declaration that the effects of the peace could only be within the Earth's bounds of Dranga?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u27	A respectable president. I don't want to minimize the importance of any inquiry. A senator, but I think it'll be better if I answer that in a different way than here during an unprepared question period. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator completely agrees with me in this regard. Hv. A senator has called attention to the matter and has raised questions that we have tried to answer best, and he will, of course, continue to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u28	A respectable president. The nation's mental health should take priority, especially in this time of the pandemic and the Christian meeting goals, but it is not. Since the discovery of the Korean virus in this country, 36 people have died because of the virus. We talk about the crown virus as an epidemic, and we react to it as such. For reference, within the past 18 months, between the beginning of 2020 and June 2021, 64 people lost their lives. More than a quarter of those who died last year were individuals 18◯29 years of age. Among these subjects, there were also three children. These are our children who at that moment saw no other way out of distress but to end their own lives. In recent years almost twice the number of deaths due to suicide has been greater than from the crown virus. Yet, mental - health matters do not get the attention they deserve. The same government that agreed to subsidize the psychological service decides to provide only 1/17 of this same service. This, despite the fact that the World Health Organization warned against the effects of the epidemic on the mental health of people when the virus first arose. Funds speak of increased contributions to mental health, but these do not work. Furthermore, it is unclear where the money should go and what to do. In April 2018, a suicide reduction plan was published, but it has, unfortunately, not declined in Iceland. So I ask what's going to happen. Health Ministers to take steps to reduce the rate of committed suicide and to eliminate the severe suicide epidemic we face?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u29	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for bringing this matter to his attention and thanking him for this request involving mental health issues and the effect of Covid in this regard. It is good that we take this discussion at the General Assembly, and we will no doubt do so more because we have considered taking this matter particularly well and putting our arms around it. Hv. A senator introduces the consequences of the terrible situation when people consider taking their own lives and even going all the way, that is a terrible matter. There's been a lot of things done through Covid. We've put money on the job and made it permanent in these budgets, not just in the matter of suicide, we've also worked particularly closely with members of the United States, such as the Dietao. We must support the best possible efforts of all these good organizations because we will be able to reach people who have come to this evil position. Then we are trying to evaluate concomitant effects of Covid through this pandemic. In the big film that I wanted to come to, as it were, people's health and mental health, it is written down in a government contract that we are going to take a national interest in public health - care and public health - related matters that are not least of this social and spiritual concern. In this way, we are making mental - health struggles at the same time. It's a pretty good public health policy that goes into force until 2030 and a mental - health conference was held not long ago, and it's setting up a mental - health conference and a report. [[The president calls.]] The minister standing here is going to grab that report and continue to work better in this category.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u30	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. The fact is, though, that children's feelings have deteriorated. One in five teenagers in Iceland has been hurt once or more, and one in three has thought about it. In 2016, 963 high school students reported suicide attempts at one or more times during their lifetime. And that was 2016. Today, the spiritual health of young people falls within a few advisers, as was heard in the case of public health and other matters. These matters are likely within some guidance. Well, then I'd like to ask if it's the highest. My concern is shared by a health minister that this group could lose the focus and the strength needed for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u31	V.E.G. President. Thank you so much. A senator for bringing up this important subject of mental health and people's health. And the answer is simply yes, I will share that worry all day long. A senator who is happy to hear it. A senator is coming to join us in the campaign we are about to take. I may want to see that in a later answer that I did not enter in a previous answer: Because Covid affects our whole community and exaggerates the position that is upstairs, especially in this category - and it's only true that it is difficult to point to the exact point that mental and social health is a broad concept and that goes contrary to the Ministry - there are two members of the board that my predecessor set in motion have begun to be through the whole process and that my posts are tied. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We'll get information from these operating groups and use them for a job.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u32	Mr. President. I would like to shed light here on the position of gardening education in Iceland. The gardening industry has been conducted on smokes in Elfs continuously since 1939 or for over 80 years. School was an independent organisation and has played a major role in building important sectors in climatic development, forestry as well as land design, and construction of the country in Iceland. In 2005, the school was transferred to the National Farming University of Iceland, and since then, all of us who worked these schools have seen serious declines, both locals, property, and study. In the last 15 years, total lack of ambition has been the dominant factor in this great institution. In time, gardeners and the gardeners'interest groups warned of the consequences of their union, and sadly all the warnings have followed. Together, there began to be a lack of internal education in smoking plants, and now it is time for this school year to be the last in 80 years of college's history at this place. The number of workers is reduced, housing is not maintained, and there are other signs of loss in the operation. The end of history will write itself, as it were. Will we watch this happen silently? The birth of an independent garden school on smokes in Elfus is becoming evident. The park industry in Iceland needs a professional school, and a green lifestyle requires that smokers be strengthened and strengthened. By permission of the president, the government covenant stated: It is important that agricultural and environmental studies, such as climate protection, nature protection, land quality and innovation, are carried out by personnel and universities. [[The president calls.]] So my question to the minister is, Is it possible for a minister to promote smoking to another independent school, thus ensuring a powerful education in the gardening and the future development of the country in Iceland? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u33	The President still reminds us of the hour of speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u34	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this inquiry, saying that we share that vision, me and the other. Senator, it's important to promote gardening education in Iceland. We share the vision that everything that attracts this industry and that it is clearly one of the 21st century's savings. When it comes to the Gardening School of Smoke, or the part of Iceland's agricultural university, it is now in the process that it becomes part of the South American High School. I'm new to this, but I believe that the decision made by the then academic minister is reasonable. On the other hand, I like it, huh? Senator, we need to take a positive lead in this. I intend to meet at the beginning of the New Year's Precinct, to meet and visit the National Parking School of Smokes, to visit the South School of Multiways, and to have a professional meeting because of this. A senator witnessed to it. I am convinced that we can succeed, in this ideal period, in the next year and in the current year of school, in reviving new life in Iceland. I'm also convinced that it is possible to make a film, and this can help build smoke. I know this case only from an old age because I personally sat in the field council of agriculture when the gardening school became part of the agricultural university at the time. What I intend to do is meet everyone involved. I am convinced that we are able to build a powerful gardening education in Iceland and that this is where we argue. A senator's opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u35	President. Thank you very much. Minister for interest in gardening matters, that's fine. In this hall, we have often talked about the importance of gardening and that we are sustainable as a nation in terms of vegetable production. And we need this school. Here, too, a minister is a handsome figure, and I'm just gonna be honest with him that he hasn't been seen on smokes in Alfusi for another dozen years. There's nothing to do with pictures. There is nothing that is done. There are fewer teachers in Iceland's garden. They're running away, they're going somewhere else. I'm very glad that a minister is here on his way to this party of connoissency. It's my opinion that nursing school doesn't belong at a university the way that it tried to do. [[The president calls.]] I reiterate the question: Will Minister forge on smoke become an independent garden school in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u36	A respectable president. I share that opinion with you. A senator, as it sounds to me, says that it was not a wise step at the time when the Gardening School became part of Iceland's Marine College at that time. If I don't forget, it was in the last yards of the cohesion process that the Gardening School go into the National Farmer College of Iceland. We share that opinion, me and what. A senator, that we can develop a cultured gardening education, and we also share the view that we can build in Who made it possible to build up. But whatever the landings are going to be in it, it can go to a school of its own or under and in cooperation with the South High School. I intend, as I told you earlier, to go and meet all the relevant parties; the town government, the head of professional life, the head of high school and others, because the goal of both the current education minister and the existing, would be the supreme. The Minister of Education for Lilja Alfreðsdóttir, is that it will raise a powerful education in gardening, and that smokes, and the activity there, will be produced.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u37	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the transition to IX. Annex (System Service) to the EEA Convention (remission of Pension) and implementing the Convention Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council (EU) 2021/337 from 16 February 2021 on the EU Re-improvement Directive and targeted adaptations for financial mire to contribute to the restoration of the Covid-19 pandemic. The protocol, which will be entered into the EEA Convention by the decision of the joint EEA committee from December 10 of that year, is part of the so-called financial reform package adopted by the European Union to support the improvement after the economic breakdown created by the Covid-19 pandemic. One of the measures involved in the Regulation is the change in the structure of the descriptions in order to enable the publishers and stakeholders in the financial market to reduce costs and cut down the funding for the reform process. Description is a synonym for documents to be published as a result of a general stock tender or as a commercial stock market purchase. They are designed to make it possible for investors to make an informed investment decision. As a simple structure of such information, the reimbursement of prices is an obligatory arrangement for financial enterprises. The time of the Regulation is very short and has already taken effect within the EU. The EEA in EFTA has rich interests because enterprises inside them sit at the same level as other internal markets in access to funding following the Covid-19 pandemic. Therefore, it is important that the review of this agreement be made as soon as possible after it has been recorded in the EEA Convention. This requires legal adjustment in this country and will be introduced by changing the law of No. 14/2020, the description of the stock market stocks offered in general or taken for business in an orderly market, and will provide financial and economic ministers with a bill for this month. The induction is not expected to have a significant impact on government or government financial matters. A respectable president. After this discussion, I suggest that the proposal be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u38	A respectable president. Now it's a good thing that in all of this government cable that's been going on and not all of us yet clear, it's clear that the EEA is still with the Secretary of State. I support this model, and I think it was important. It is good to have quick grips on the times and the seasons that are difficult to deal with. However, I would like to ask the minister two: Is there a problem with the View of the Federal Bank, i.e. Is that what it is about? However, this is the attitude of consumers because it is said that while it is important to reduce financial resources, it is important. I'm on it. They needed to be able to act quickly. But have consumer organizations themselves or others had any concern about this exact matter, and in what way?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u39	A respectable president. I don't have the guts to state in a lecture on the Nitecular Association's attitude in this regard, but I think I remember correctly that it remains called, not just by financial companies, but by the system in general, i.e. the bank's waiting, too. I'll make it clear if I'm mistaken, but I think it's safe to mention it here. I don't suppose it's controversial, either there or hopefully not at the Neighbour Association. The general line that we are here with similar rules and positions and places in the EEA is generally important and in this case is an indiscriminate operation, so I expect and hope that there is a general agreement about this induction.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u40	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for an excellent answer. It may not be right to take this discussion here, this technical discussion. This is the discussion that we have within the State Department. Nevertheless, I would like to thank you for the answer. We'll just look at what consumers say about this. I'm wondering if we, who are free competition, an open market economy, are the supporters of the EEA Convention -- unfortunately, there seems to be something shrinking. However, there isn't a minister amongst them, and I'm glad that she has been firm in her vision and in her policy of closely following the EEA Convention. Sadly, when it comes to it, there are certain flashes of light. ... inthefairofthemax. Ministers, but also members of other conservative or forward groups, or whatever we want to call the classes. So I wondered, " Is it really possible to draw out the importance of the fact that me and the Icelanders are in this very market, a financial market, so important, with a flexible rule of order, a reliable order, and that we have a rule of order that is in our major business and neighboring nations, without me wanting to take this conversation for a long time? ' But I think it matters that our message to the world, whether it's in this EEA case or anyone else, is clear that we're covering the EEA deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u41	Mr. President. I agree with what. Senator on the importance of the EEA Convention. It is important to maintain the value of the contract, but also to observe whether we can do something better when it comes to the implementation of the contract and its introduction. Likewise, there may not be a common understanding of his importance and perhaps especially when it comes to problems. There we need to keep our eyes open. To have access to this huge market and that the rules here are the same as in the big field, i.e. That's why we're bringing this in right now. And then it is simply an ongoing task to ensure the best interests of Icelandic society through the EEA Convention. It is a ongoing task that we need to take care of.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u42	A respectable president. This body of Congress offers a search of the Generals' warrant to confirm for Iceland the decision made by the European Commission on the Change of II. Annex, technical regulations, standards, testing and certification, and accounting 37 containing the file set in 101. gr. to the EEA Convention and to enter the Convention on Council Regulations and Council of 2019/5 and 2019/6 of December 11, 2018. This is a total legislation on the internal market of the European Economic Area, which takes into account the progress of recent years in science, the present market and economic reality. The purpose of these new rules is to include to reduce administrative burden and increase the availability of veterinary medicinal products. At the same time, health and animals are guaranteed as well as by environmental protection. The rules will be implemented in the European Union on January 28 of the next year. They will not take into account the EFTA countries in the EEA, including Iceland, until they have been formally adopted into the EEA Convention by decision made by the European Commission and that decision made. The introduction of the local types calls for a legal adjustment, so the decision to insert these types into the EEA Convention was taken under administrative notice by the joint EEA committee on December 10 of the past. It is important that the warnings can be removed as early as the current EU rules can be applied in the EFTA countries as closely as possible in EU validation as possible. Legal uncertainty is about how much previous rules can bridge the gap for the EFTA countries until the new regulations take effect with them. There is a strong chance that they could interfere with the sale of veterinary medicinal products to and from the EFTA countries. Such restrictions can quickly result in a lack of veterinary medicinal products in this country, with adverse consequences for animal health. Such a situation could cause Icelandic farmers and food producers, including fish farms, damage. It has been necessary to adapt the new rules to the two support systems of the EEA Convention. The adjustment is the same as for the general administration of the EU, and so far it is also valid for animal life. A health-care minister will provide a legislation on the treatment of veterinary medicinal products that are currently implemented in December. The induction is not expected to have a significant impact on government or government financial matters. I therefore suggest, a respectable president, that this discussion will be terminated if this proposal is referred to why. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u43	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 388/2021 of December 10, 2001. The decision makes a change of IX. Annex to the EEA Convention by including the Council of Europe and the Council of 2021/168 for financial policy support and for which it should apply if it is no longer published. In addition, the Convention consists of two of the Commission's Commission Regulations, which further address the regulations of the Regulation. At the beginning of the year 2022, there is the tendency to stop publishing LIBOR fruit and cross - bank growth in euros, which are fundamentally proposed in a number of financial contracts. The rules the decision will address on what should be considered instead if negotiations are based on either criteria and negotiations did not agree on other criteria to support. The uptake and induction of the Regulation therefore reduces the uncertainty and potential problems of business and it is important to provide values in this country for the year before these growth indicators can be published. Timely recording is of particular importance to Iceland's partners in the EEA, Liechtenstein, because a large part of financial agreements there refers to LIBOR growth in Swiss French countries. One of the required regulations, Regulation 2021/168 requires legal adjustment in this country. Budget and Economic Ministers will provide the bill for a change in the law on financial standards, No. 7/2021, for the year's anniversary, to provide the Regulation here on the country. The induction is not expected to have a significant impact on government or government financial matters. A respectable president. So I suggest that after this discussion, the proposal be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u44	A respectable president. As a result of this decree of Congress, the Allied warrants are sought to confirm for Iceland's contract between Iceland and the Faeroe Islands for Fishing in Icelandic and British jurisdictions in 2022 that were temporarily passed away by cross - mail exchange between the government of the State earlier this month. The contract requires permission of parties to fish for up-to - date sea fish in the jurisdiction of each other in the year 2022. The contract can provide up to 30,000 tons of fur after a total of 500,000 tons. Iceland is authorized to hunt as many as 1,300 trains of macroil a year in Faeroe Islands'fishing history. The nations also agreed to seek to finish the next work to change the arrangement of these negotiations. The objective is to make a longer-term frame deal, but it would have to be adjusted to a variety of factors, such as greetings and access, according to the circumstances of the day. The goal is to complete that work within the first part of the next year. The treaty has reached its final significance when it has been announced that the administrative conditions of each country have been met. Before this deal was made on the basis of the earlier national contract from 1976 on the information of the Faeroes to fish Iceland's jurisdictions, it was decided that very poor ships could catch 5,600 trains of bottom fish next year, from Iceland, 2022. However, the overall power of cod will be no more than 2,400 trains, the total segments of a cone no more than 400 trains, and no fishing will be allowed on the hatches and grays. Is that the same amount from the previous contract? A respectable president. I suggest that after this discussion, the proposal be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u45	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers for this and the traditional conversation with the council when it comes to deliveries. I wanted to be curious at the highest. Minister if there are any changes in the arrangements for the transfer procedures. Whether there's something in the water, that we're getting together on other issues that we haven't been able to get together in so far, like to form in the sea and that I remind myself of the carbon. Are there any changes that would affect our agreement with the Entees? I'm aware that the highest. Minister's not been in the Ministry long enough. I accept that the Minister is going over the case on hand. I just want to know if there's anything in the pipe about dealing with the Faeroes, who are so important to us - it's important to have good relations with this great and important neighboring nation, our sister nation, but it's also their radical interests and ours at stake. Can we expect any change in the arrangement in our contracts with the Entees?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u46	Mr. President. I'm gonna allow me to answer this properly and not say anything I might need to draw back, which would be very delicate if I did. So I dare not tell you exactly where such conversations are or what they expect. Of course, we do know that at times these matters have been handled with great interest. In case of a moment. A senator would like to give a clearer answer to them. It's easy to get them, and whether by informal means or through unsubstantiated inquiry or written inquiry, I'll be sure to do a little more checking when it comes to that. Of course, this interaction is alive. Now we're working on getting out of the arrangement to always come up with a contract here 15 minutes before Christmas next year. We were hoping that we could go through the new arrangement as far as this Christmas is concerned. But it takes a little longer, so hopefully we'll finish it in the first half of the next year, so it's going to be a different channel. However, regarding other negotiations and this interaction, I make it effective to answer in the way I have done here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u47	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister very much for the answer. I thought it was honest. I thought that was clear despite the inability to give a very clear picture. I just thought it was a normal answer. I'm glad that there was also a compromise that said that we don't always have to do this contract at Christmas, because it shows something that we don't go in enough of the content of our own agreements, i.e. whether we can do better on behalf of Iceland and also in our dealings with this great circle of friends. So I'm really happy with that answer. I think it sheds some light on the situation. But we also have full opportunities and tools to look into the matter further. So I thank you for those answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u48	A respectable president. I recommend a bill for changing air travel laws, No. 60/1998. This bill suggests the extension of the time of the provisional period in the current law to July 1, 2022. On December 31, 2021, that law still falls. provisional regulations were legalized by law No. 41/2021, change of air travel law, No. 60/1998, went into effect on June 1st. In short, it requires the permission of a minister, when there is a risk of travel to or from Iceland, and public health, to address the temporary duties of pilots or those in the air at the disposal of regulations. These responsibilities include checking whether a passenger has met the qualifications for a prescription and has certain proof or confirmation of a test for the health of a passenger before boarding, as such a duty has been placed on a passenger on the basis of a disinfectant law. The reason for my suggestion that the directive be extended is simple: The effects of the worldwide Covid-19 pandemic still exist, the types of Covid-19 virus have increased, and despite widespread viral vaccination, there are still a very long number of infections, both in the country and elsewhere. It cannot be excluded that tourists, i.e. those who cross borders will continue to carry the virus and therefore its new variant to the country from high incidences of infection and where vaccination is not yet widespread. Thus, the predictions of the European Commission for Disease Control are expected to allow for continued increase in infectious activities if action is compromised. It will not be excluded that further variants of the virus will present themselves as vaccines at this time will not protect as well as that individuals will be seriously ill, or that strains more infectious than those currently known, and new waves of infection will trigger a local landland. A respectable president. Therefore, in view of my circumstances, I believe that it is necessary to keep temporarily and thereby decide on the regulations that I have set on the basis of the obligation of pilots to verify proof due to Covid-19 international flights, No. 650/2021, with subsequent changes. Private law is not expected to have other possibilities to ensure the measures and actions required for temporary households. In accordance with the provision for preliminary review of the Regulation monthly, in agreement with the National Competent Authority. This was being done in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, and it is proper to conclude that the Minister of Health plans to provide a bill for changes in the treatment laws at this council, and I hope that this will result in the change to the point that this provision will therefore be unnecessary. If the bill is legal, it is not expected to have a significant impact on the survival of a government fund. I suggest that the bill be following this discussion. Environment and transportation of the Committee for Discussion 2.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u49	Mr. President. The bill that became the law that is being extended here was originally deposed by the Environment and Transport Committee at the request of the Department of Transport and Development. This is a sensitive approach, and we should save mostly for the most clear and simple things, such as. Just correcting things or extending undisputed intervals. In this case, this process was followed by a change that was already found to be very controversial. The Commission received a number of experts, and it found that the original supply of the Commission and the Ministry could possibly conflict with the articles of the Constitution that would prevent the return of Icelandic citizens. At the end of May, the committee discussed the matter from the middle of March until the end of this spring. However, at all those times, there was no opportunity to give the matter general information. One of the advantages of saying something about themselves is that they are less likely to be sent to comment. Therefore, the public has not been able to approach this change, something that has been made by transportation to the outside world. Therefore, I would like to ask a minister in the discussion section of the report because it shows that due to lack of time, we do not see eye to eye. Mr. President. How can that be? Is it possible that this provision would have to be extended for some time? Why, on the other hand, did the Ministry not use the consultation to send this case to the public?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u50	A respectable president. You're right next door. A senator and I agree that it would be wise for him to ask the committees to make a case unless there is a great need or when there is a simple extension. In fact, it was considered that the committee would be asked to deliver the case, or I know that such a discussion was raised at the council. However, since there are other issues we are discussing here today in this crisis form, I felt that we were going this way, and hence perhaps we had a chance of having some dealings with a minister here at the council. Of course, initially the matter was presented under intense pressure from the competent authorities to do so rapidly before the Passover during the present year due to the viral status of the virus at that time. Then, in my opinion and ministry, the committee, as well as the council, left some mountain backways and found all sorts of bait on a planned bill, which proved to be out of hand when it came to the throw. Many experiments were made, but it took a long time to settle the matter. That is why it did not go into effect until June 1. But afterward it might have been better to go the normal way. It was not clear that the matter would be brought back because in summer and autumn, of course, we were going to break down that law. It's just that way. So I repeated in my history that it was better for such a law to be diseased than on air travel. This, in addition, is a provision, in addition, for doing so, with reference to rules set out by the competent authorities. That's why it's gone this way. The reason for this shame is that the disease - control authorities count because of the current viral status and, unfortunately, they have too little fear of being there, is the need to extend the law for six months. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u51	Mr. President. If it was the order of the Department of Health at one time to get the work done quickly and well, most of the environment and transport committees tried to do it quickly and badly. And it's the highest mountain power. More than anything, a minister said that the majority of the environmental and transport committees are not inclined to listen to experts who pointed to the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland to violate. There was nothing more complex than that. We took a mountain back to do not violate government rights in Icelandic citizens, and not just Iceland's Constitution but the International Human Rights Convention, where the right to travel to home state is protected. These are one of the most important rights of the nation. Without a citizen, there's no state. And if the government can only keep people away from the country, there's not much left. This was really the situation we faced. It didn't take just one mountain back to wind down the nonsense to a greater part of the environment and transport committee, we had to circle around the mountain back a few times. We had to bring the matter into the middle of 2nd. and between the 2nd and 3rd. Until the members of the greater body finally swallowed up their pride, they realized that the way they acted on the Constitution of the rights of the people. That is why I would have considered a desirable, respectable president that a case expected for the council to complete in two weeks before the year, although it was only extended to temporary regulations, an opportunity for the public, which it certainly did not in us when it was originally made legal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u52	A respectable president. As I said in my previous answer, at the end of November, a decision was made that of a DC's request to extend this law that might have slipped its course. I have answered many times, and have spoken that such a law is much better at home in the treatment of disease: for it is founded, and not in the air, but in the power of reason for it. So this route was taken to ensure that, at the same time, we could request a prescription from all airlines, which proved to be in such a way that some were willing to do so willingly on the basis of recommendations, but others did not until such a law was established. I'm not gonna use this time to review the whole thing and start arguing here with why. A senator, who must state just as it is that the discussion of this matter on the spring day of the committee was most peculiar. Of course, the Ministry did not propose a case as a violation of Iceland's Constitution, and of course a lot of experts pointed out that the interpretation was correct. A senator describes it here as very narrow and peculiar. Happily, though, there was a way to settle everything and all and settle matters. This went into effect on June 1 and has benefited the DC to get all airlines flying to Iceland to represent a minimum pre-prescription and to show that at least one proof is involved. This has helped to keep a good position in the treatment of disease prevention in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u53	Mr. President. In a time of crisis, there will be mistakes. In fact, in times of crisis, mistakes are often made. I think that looking back and looking at the Covid season with an open mind would be one of the mistakes of the bill here being extended, not necessarily because of material, but because of the way it was created. It was beginning to occur that the Ministry of Transport and Regional Government asked the Environment and Transport Committee to make its own bill about the limitations in traveling between countries. Of course, ministers should make such an offer. Of course, ministers should stand here and give reasons for their case in the Hall of Congress. Of course, ministers are to bear the responsibility in the event of their performance rather than forward the prime radios on committees to allow them to pass through the council in a hurry because it is the only thing that the Committee's Committee is about when it is moved in this way; it is about getting past the procedures established by the council to ensure legalization. As a result, last spring the bill was not sent to comment, because it rarely guesses when they present their own bills. However, thanks to the watchful eye of a number of government officials, a hand brake was taken here in March and pointed out that the original bill, as looked out from an Environmental and Transport Committee, was too nearly 66 p.m. The constitution so that we could have a good conscience agree with it. V.E.G. A minister earlier said that the discussion within the committee became odd about this point. But perhaps he could take a closer look at his joint memoir, the Ministry of Presidency, and the Ministry of Health - good if the Ministry of Justice wasn't with them too. It was just most of Iceland's board of directors who wrote a common memo about the very fact that the issue was very controversial. However, the odd thing about the discussions within the environment and transport committees was that the management teams were so blinded by their lack of logic. We got -- I don't remember - I guess we got about four doctors in the law to go over it with us? None of them are confident to confirm that this would not be a violation of a constitution. Some of them go so far as to say it was clearly a violation of 66. "Gri." It's pretty clear. It says, by permission of the president: It will not be avoided coming to the country nor will it be excommunicated. In the bill from the Environment and Transport Committee, this was exactly suggested. It suggested that a minister could oblige airlines to deny land marches to citizens, but only to do so elsewhere. They were to be reassigned to foreign pilots. And then these same airlines were to carry the obligation to reimburse the people who did not meet the conditions of the law. It's really amazing what the governmentmen beat their heads to the stone in this case for weeks, always complaining about how little time it was to finish the matter, but with their eyes it was always too easy to find out how simple the solution was. It was simply the adjustment proposal presented by the 1st smaller part of the environment and transport committee, which led to the adjustment proposal. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson The motion was to add a simple phrase that this obligation did not reach Icelandic citizens. But the peculiar discussion of the Committee, such as the Supreme Court. A minister put it this way, a bit busy with the executives, who felt that there was no room to break the potential 66rd. The Constitution and the European Convention of Human Rights felt that all of this was a terrible sentence because it could begin to discriminate against people after the national background. On this point, the jurists agreed. There would be discrimination, but there would be serious reasons for that, mainly one, Iceland's Constitution. Just a fine reason, just a very good reason to crop the law and extend it to a distinct group, especially when it was as temporary as the end approved. You see, that is the other thing that we fought in our memory. In March 2021, the larger portion of this document was proposed to be valid in 2022. For over a year and a half, this warrant would apply rather than, as we have done with most preliminary access here in the Covid epidemic, to leave it in a narrowly reserved period of time because it is a warrant that limits people's rights, to hold it for a narrow period of time and to extend it when necessary. And that would have been possible at any time. Although the government has taken the longest vacation from the history of Congress, it could have been arranged one day in the summer or some other time in the fall to extend this if necessary. Something like this has been done in June, when we came to a meeting in order to help solve the problems of the campaign laws that had to be fixed. A respectable president. The lesson I'm getting out of this is that we should just stop this crap. We should stop suggesting that members of the Parliament be set free for a minister and present a minister to the council as if they were their own. You see, it didn't appear until 2nd of us. Our bill in spring said it was written in the Ministry. Until then. Every member of the board like this would have been their suggestion, their idea, they would've just thought of it, and dedicated themselves even harder in the pits because we in the stand of government were criticizing their case. It may be easier to accept the material criticism of the prime suspects as members of the management team if it is the minister who recommends it rather than you yourself as the commanding officer. I believe the time has passed when members of the Parliament will bring up the corrective products of the minister or prime products set out in a pretext to be only technical. We burned ourselves off on this in the spring, where part of the management board of the environment and transportation committee was lured into this situation because there was so much pressure that people couldn't get into it properly. It was convened to support a matter that on closer observation was contrary. A respectable president. What I would like to say, which I spoke here in reply to the highest. Minister, in turn, is inaccessible. It is only natural when we are in the middle of a major situation when we give a discount on what we believe in in a normal year's visit to a difficult job response. - Maybe not normal, maybe rather understandable, maybe even necessary. Hence, the government stand was led to believe in it in spring that because of the speed needed to be on this bill, it could not be sent for review. In fact, it was found that the hurry was no greater than that shortly before the Passover when we waited and waited to be invited to the committee meeting to review the case. We didn't know it until after Easter. So the hurry was never really there, even when it came to it, it was accepted, not in haste, but by a two - month discussion at a council, which, unfortunately, was never about the conversation with the public and stakes of our affairs. Here's a bill that was placed over some of the backrooms of the Environment and Transport Committee and the Ministry. There was never any comment in the public. Of course, we were assigned to the Committee, but because of lack of time and pressure, none of them trusted to give a written statement. So the document level, which should be on this bill from the last spring that impairs people's rights, is not present. In the press, this case is a black hole. Hence, and mainly of that, it is so incredibly frustrating that the Ministry is again experiencing a lack of time. Nine months later, the Ministry is again behind a lack of time, considering that the bill we're considering here has not been sent for review. Although that decision may have been made late in the fall and only to extend this provision, even though people may not have realized it until October or November, there was always a time to do better. This case is in the Constitution that we got two weeks ago. One of those weeks could have been a consultation period in the consultation riddle. Then a minister would have met at least some minor plot. Now or those two weeks could have been used here at a council if a minister had kindly brought this simple matter to us right away at the council. But it is the same with this and so many matters that the government is now bringing to the council under enormous pressure of time, which is totally prepared for home. It is created by the ministers'spending a very large amount of time in government development, so much so that they were bored, and they had to be written twice and printed after each other. And then they've been bringing in the prime answers to the council that we should have two, three or four days to resolve, issues that may be large, can be more than simple extensions on a date. However, this is not a simple extension of date and nothing else, but we are to be seen as a convocation after taking the conversation within our order and with the public for whom we are working. We will take the conversation on this subject from the start. It's never happened. It is because of the work done by the existing environmental and transport committees and the local minister, who is sad that this issue has not been handled just by minimal agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u54	A respectable president. I got a little sad out here in the hall listening to what I heard. This speech is delivered by a senator. It was not because of him but the contents of what he said. He made a sad picture. He made up, in my opinion, a sad picture of government involvement in his power, association with government with the Constitution, the government of government with the jurisdiction. All these events, just as they were. A senator so well described in his speech, lighting all caution bells, in terms of whether it is being taken into account the natural and legitimate views presented at the council and, at times, must be put forward when crisis times are used to force the law, recommendations, to use power, sometimes with a mental attitude, sometimes with a legitimate view. That's where we need to be warned when it comes to this government. It has failed repeatedly when it comes to the legislative authority and how we deal with it and with how we deal with various crisiss that we need to deal with. We supported the government in many cases very well, but we were also, exactly in this case, with the emergency inhibitor in progress and had to be dealt with, as seems to be the case. A senator, who has studied the matter carefully, says, when the members of the government allowed himself to present a case so completely contrary to the constitution. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Does he hope that this will be the case with the council? Can we fix it, make it better? Does he hope that this work will be better in the new year?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u55	Madam President. We're going to review the situation on the environment and transport committee but I think we've managed to make it as good as it could be. But it took a lot of energy. The government had to exert great force within committees and outsides to get officials to realize that they just had to accept this simple change of motion. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's son, Hannah, except for the Icelandic citizen of the law. But what I have learned from this experience is that this is probably one of the most clear examples of government officials who have not tried to win their battles against Covid, have not tried to show that we are all on the team. On the contrary, a panel of stereochrome lines was drawn in a language that had no reason to make a group predominantly. Government officials, beneath the flag of Generals, who were built in the last government, opposed everything proposed by the government in this case until the last record. There was a lot of energy that the Environment and Transport Committee had to spend on this case that could have been solved at one meeting instead of ten or twenty, which began to solve it. [[The president calls.]] The government might have been able to save that energy to finish a highland park or a frame plan, but instead they chose to beat their heads against this stone. I wonder why.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u56	Madam President. When ministers file a case, they cooperate with the council, and they trust the council. There's a conversation between us, including... The Ministry and the Committee, and they are all aware that certain things need to be addressed because ministers cannot see everything. It is in nature. While warnings are being made and repeated, it seems that they have refused to respond simply because they have not been allowed to respond to the government stand, do not accept what is good if it comes from there. In many cases, across all legalities, the government has offered its suggestions, but all of them have been rejected, and then ministers have made a similar suggestion, or more, in 15 minutes. It's just fine. If we come up with good ideas from the management team, it's important to get it out, not who it does. Therefore, we have at Welson, in support of the government in the issues we have set up for the greater economic interests, especially in Covid's time, just to underscore the value of our solidarity. But it is primarily on the authority of the government that it is coming out of that solidarity today, in my opinion in the community, primarily on its responsibility. Not only is the government no longer the uniting and the speaking of paraphernalia in various matters but the practice simply means that they do not increase our faith in the people who work here at the General Assembly that the issues it presents are actually in the interest of the public. I repeat my question: A senator that this practice will change in a new year? [[The president calls.]] I always put my hopes in new years and new times.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u57	Madam President. I'm usually a hopeful man, but I don't have much hope that this was a lot better because there were so many opportunities for it in the last winter that it wasn't new. And as for the lack of our warnings in the management situation during the two months that we discussed the matter, it is also good to review the following: March 18 of the Environment and Transport Committee is submitted because of life on the basis of February 18, a memo for the Government to the Presidency, Transport and Regional Ministers, Health and Justice of the Commission, which was drawn up by the panels of the committees. A month before the council meets the matter, this way is suggested that it can go against the human rights of individuals. We weren't trying to figure it out. The people in our councils pointed out this before the matter came to our attention. Hv. A senator said that I had drawn up a sad picture of the political treatment of this case for us. It's just what you can call it. This is a textbook example of how the European Commission is not to be associated with the legislature, and this is a textbook example of how we at the General Assembly need to avoid being cohesive with the free will of counsel. That's where we have to say stop, and that's what needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u58	Madam President. This has been an interesting discussion on this subject, one of which might say that it is just a simple extension of laws that has been in force for six months and that we have been able to live with. It's been helpful in fighting the Covid sheep. And why not simply extend this wordless and continue living? I have full faith that this situation will go through here, but seeing it here makes me feel pretty special. Hv. paritaprevir In many ways, Andrés Ingi Jónsson handled that matter well and challenged what I would like to say. I still think it's important to come up here and discuss the matter on my behalf and on my party. As an agent of the Environment and Transport Committee, I presented these proposals with good support from other members of the government. Fortunately, more parts took over, and I thank you for your ex-whipped. paritaprevir Ari Guðmundsson for winning that case well when the council finally came to its end. It is with the way we handle this blessed freedom and how we treat it when we have to cut it down because we are facing a threat. There is a danger that, for the sake of the people's well - being, the impairment and failure to focus on important factors that affect how we fare when we are compromising our freedom. Let us not forget that our predecessors had considerable value in supporting our freedom, and that is not necessarily so. Only on the background: Hv. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson spoke of the fact that the case had been proposed on the part of the committee and was well aware of how bad it is when such short - term treatments are being made, taking mountain back to Congress, to committees. Then there is a polarity that ignores formalities as if things are discussed and followed. But when asked for March 18, it was to be finished before Easter. That was the goal. Easter was there for the month. Such was to be the hurry. And the battle had already been fought when the Moriscos were being reminded of such points as the Constitutional right of the Icelanders to come to their own country and accept the stigmas proclaimed. It was never about forbidding it or preventing it. This was about to prevent the Icelanders from returning home. Then began one to compare this law with the fact that the people of Iceland will not come here unless they show a passport, that it is comparable. It was so stupid that it didn't get to talk. In particular, we here should be aware that the passport is a personal condition that we show to demonstrate that we are Icelanders, and after we have done so we have the right to the Constitution, including the privilege of coming to the country. This has been very well resolved, and this extension will only be extended to the spring of 2022, July 1, and then as it was approved after the roller coaster ride it was last held for us. It went back and forth. I find something special, if I understood the highest. Minister just before, that he should have had a special discussion on the environment and transport committee. I interpret it so that we're more shot at in the lesser part of the shift but more of it. I don't think so, I think the council has shown its strength in this matter, stood on their feet against the executives, and opposed the authority of the officials who were there to take their lives at the expense of the most important rights. The case went on to this busbed, and it was finished that it did not apply to the people of Iceland, as this has been done. However, I agree with what was said in the Supreme Case. Ministers in which he said that it was better to have such laws in the treatment laws. There is an experience to deal with such things, to weigh the risks of epidemics, the importance of disease prevention, and the interaction between these factors, and then to the freedom and rights of the citizens. There is simply a risk that these items, these important topics, go under the radar, and spread to many people if such cases are being handled into the others and this Ministry, who have limited experience in discussing such matters. I think I'm right about this, because I've been found here to believe that some experts, in the ministry's opinion, thought it was totally safe, that they were four experts. One of them had a rather positive attitude toward this, and another felt that it would be important to prove who the need was, and the others said that it was not just a gray area but in a very gray area. This is too weak to meet the right of the citizens to come to the country. In addition, these experts did not trust themselves to present written comments to the subject because the time was too short. Then there was reason not to listen to them, that they did not rely on written comments. It wasn't like that on their part, I think. I think it's important that we stand on our feet and do what we've done here in this room from the beginning of the epidemic, building up for the procedures required by law. It's going well, but we need to take this step step by step and weigh every matter for ourselves because otherwise we might have been led into the trouble that this situation might have brought us into. Initially, this case was to be completed in over a week. It ended in some months. Then the matter went into the traditional process of reporting only by getting a verbal review of the visitors who were called. So I think it's important - I realize that we're back in the clock press, we can't move the years, this law fails them -- to the break. The Environment and Transport Committee provides the amount of time it can allow guests to call for references. It's not complicated, it's possible to regroup with those who were interviewed more than six months ago and to seek their opinion. We are now in the second and even third round, extending these restricted laws, and that is a very dangerous area. How important it is, then, that we do not fall asleep in danger of all of this! Such continued impairments without convincing evidence and without any explaining to the citizens that they need to extend unchanged - although the whole nation is now being vaccinated, not even twice, but three times, despite the fact that fewer people are ill, despite the less pressures on Land Hospital, are still being maintained. And there's evidence to that. All we have to do is show the citizens of this country the respect to discuss the evidence here and in the terms of the Allegis, to prepare the matter for the final payment here. Because at the same time as this fact of vaccination is positive, we are faced with a reduction in the tolerability of the affected population, which matters. The best way to maintain such solidarity is to talk with people, to explain why these extensions must occur, what our main wise men have said about the matter, what they have said in the past summer, what we will see happen to certain conditions, and how the process of making such matters happen. It's our people's claim. We want this, I think. It's far better to spend time in the conversation here on a subject that we're probably 95% agreed on rather than on some argument back and forth, as we did for some week during our last week on this case, which I think everyone was dying to finish as it ended. There was something else in the way of that, I think it's the right word. I wish that the case would receive such treatment, and we can discuss it with respect the respect it deserves because it is all about it. That's how we're gonna make it back together.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u59	Madam President. I want here at 1st. on this extension of the period of air travel laws a few things, but perhaps mainly reviews the important and excellent discussion that took place in the chapters here, when the matter was settled at the time. You see, it came to the council in a completely different outfit, but it was eventually settled. It will be this way to allow the government's representatives to consider the discussion that took place on the environment and transport committee. But just in review, with the permission of the president, I would like to review in what words the member of the board of directors who put best into these matters described it here after the environmental and transportation committee had completely changed the matter. I can't remember if there was a two-way break. or whether it was between 2 and 3. ... but, by permission of the President, I'd like to step down in my former speech. And the senator, and the minister of the council, Sigrider Ah, and Andersen, saying, ▪ I was going to have this discussion just to thank you. The environment and transport committees for putting into practice the importance of altering this bill to a marvelous degree from the bill first submitted between 2 and 3. It is brought to the Icelanders and to the justice of the bill on the Icelanders - and now for the 3rd. which is a law-change to the time of the bill and the law that then becomes a law. Time of value is greatly reduced. The original bill expected an almost two - year time, which, of course, would have been completely unacceptable in the eyes of the purpose and purpose of this bill and in the light of the average measure that the members of this body should always honor. I have found reasons to review those words because it reached a fine deal of work that was done last year to narrow it down the limits of the law's values as the highest. In this first approach, a minister of Iceland's rights, and then the valid time, which was very bed, to be spoken of as being mild. Of course, we have a responsibility in these subjects to consider the interaction between moderate and urgent necessities, and much has changed since those bills were submitted first. I think that's what we're talking about. The environment and transport committee must consider whether there is a reason to reduce any of the burdensome factors underlying on the bill that were accepted at the time, probably due, in part, to the extent of the first atrennu scale. Minister. That's what I want for what I want. The Environment and Transport Committee to pass through the burdensome factors that were completed at the time of the bill as agreed and to see if there is any reason to reverse with any of them in the light of the changed status of vaccinations and knowledge of the virus on the other hand. The bill itself is not much, the report contains more, but it is calculated here that the terms of this fall from July 1, 2022. Although it would have been a long life span, I would like to think that the passing of time from July 1, 2022, is something of government digestion that is considered to be the last extension in view of the estimated loss of the law when it is unlikely that a council would be working at the time of a typical assembly meeting. If not, then, it is likely that there would be a change in the motion that the life span of the case would be reduced, so that the law would fail whether it was May 1st or June 1, 2022, instead of July 1, as the bill says. But I prefer to think it's because of the highest. Ministers appreciate it as the last extension. I'm going to this 1st. not to make this much longer than my wish for the committee to take special note of any of the factors involved in threatening flight drivers to think and to consider: Is there still a situation that justifies this burdensome action? I have doubts about that. But considering the fundamental changes in the case of the environment and transport committee during the last term, I am optimistically optimistic. The committee can look into this in a thought - provoking way and then decide whether there is a basis for reducing distressing measures and meeting the costs for travelers and companies who provide this service.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u60	Madam President. Yes, it is possible to put in words quickly but create long discussions. It's a little important to talk about why we're talking so much about such a short bill. Not necessarily that we are opposed to being required for such disease - bearing responsibility for people who are coming here but that when we put such proselytism on people, we always have to look to some moderate degree. We also need to look to the agreements we have made with other kingdoms and kingdoms. Perhaps there is something in this matter that when we make certain laws and laws say that Icelandic citizens have something better than others, such a problem may be against other agreements, such as. The EEA Convention on Travel Freedom and even agreements with the North countries for easy transfer. In these times of crisis, many countries have been making rules, various rules, and some have gone too far in this regard. Alternatively, e.g. Note that there were hundreds of Australian children who were trapped outside their parents when the Australians decided to shut down all flights, including flights with Australian citizens to the country. During the last summer, I was trapped in Rwanda, where all my flights had been shut down since March 21 and until August. Happily, I was able to get a ride by means of a United Nations plane that was carrying relief workers between them. You see, however, that others have been making laws and limitations, and we can learn from them. We can learn from what was done wrong, and we may be lucky to be unconcerned about breaking some laws because many other countries were breaking similar agreements themselves with restrictions. However, a negative point should not be made to make matters worse. Let us try to do things right, and let us try to make sure that when we limit people's freedom, we do so in a way that allows us to be moderate in mind. There's been a little talk in the talks above that there's been no consultation and that the bill itself, in its report by which I cut just after, like others, that due to lack of time, did not agree. But that's how it is, chief. Ministers in this room, that in a time of crisis, it must be consulted. And why do I say that? Yes, I have a little experience in being in time of crisis, and it could be said, in effect, that my job for the last 15 years was to spend forever in a time of crisis. There we have learned how to communicate, the key to success. We can look for ourselves here in the country and see how the so - called tri System worked here in the first few months after we were in this pandemic. There they three were always ready to consult and inform people and talk to others. Unfortunately, it has been that way during the past few months after governments started driving things more themselves that it seems that this word has been forgotten, so much so that it isn't even time for it to be made primes. I want to give the highest. counsellors sitting here, and those who listen to a little piece of advice on what it is to have consultation and what kind of consultation will do when we are in a crisis. One is to keep people informed, talk to parties from the beginning, not just when everything is ready, but in the whole process, because if we do, we encourage opposing views to come out and we have challenges to what we are offering. This makes it more thinking and working, if we work together. We also have to work as one team here. Within these walls, I've found that working as a team is some prohibition. Communicating on what to do is forbidden. We should think things over until the last minute and then show them. You see, it's not like this stuff works. As a matter of fact, a regular conversation with the whole party, a regular conversation, and especially with those on the front line, in this case e.g. to the pilots, or even to the people who are working to live by these rules. You see, it can give suggestions on what you can do better, where you haven't really thought things through the legal process, and then bring those things in here. Then, on a regular basis, you need to look at what you've done and be ready to admit that we're not reaching goals, come and set the guise aside, and say, "You can do better than that, you want to work with me on it and so get things done? " I'd like to encourage the highest. Ministers who are now offering more and more temporary laws to increase their consultations, both within and outside the council. If we are going to get through this crisis successfully, we all need to work together.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u61	President. This matter, as small as it seems to be on paper, only three lines - a sentence expressed as well as that the law is already valid - is a characteristic of the situation we've been going through for the past two years. This is yet another example of how not to deal with uncertainty. We've talked about it repeatedly in this sermon: There is such a situation of uncertainty, we just have to sacrifice all our rights and put them in the hands of the government, and it can only do what it wants. But it is the very responsibility of governments and governments to eliminate uncertainty. When it is an uncertain situation, governments make decisions that allow uncertainty to diminish or disappear. This is an example of how we are again trying to cope at the last moment with a situation that is supposed to be much more accessible, more beneficial, and safer. We're not supposed to get this kind of thing at the last minute, it's gonna make a little bit of a mess, but it's not gonna reduce it. We're supposed to demand custody from the government. This is absolutely necessary because governments have such authority, have a responsibility that they are to promote alarm, and eliminate uncertainty. That would be, for example. In a sense, stability. Temporary measures should be made on an appropriate basis so that they can be discussed as much as possible, at any distance in relation to uncertainty, of course. This is mainly because members of Congress are not experts, members of Congress are just people chosen in a democratic process. It can be a variety of people, and it is not necessarily an expert in crisis control or epidemiology or how to handle things properly and up to a point. To that end, we seek the facts and viewpoints of experts and the common people. It is the job of senators to take a stand according to their own convictions, in reality just a conscience, about what is best for them to do. But in order for us to do so, we need to get reviews. It is as obvious as it can be. That is why time shortages are always bad. It's still weirder about this bill, like a what? paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson pointed out what its timeline has been. I've come from the software sector and I've been in computer science and quality control and the like, and we've got all these constantly changing problems. It has developed a methodology to cope with ever - changing problems. People learned that when they did what they needed to do, such as A software that solved some problems, nice work, e.g. It's just that when the machine was ready to solve the problem and in use, people suddenly realized that it wasn't quite good enough. The problem isn't quite like this. Something had to be done a little more, a little different. This is because the understanding of those who accept a problem may not be the same as that of those who face it. This is called a waterfall model in the software sector with only problems and solutions. The methodology that has been developed is that when you deal with a problem, we try to understand it. As software developer, I have little understanding, e.g. on health care and how to transfer them. When a doctor comes to me and says: " I need software that does the other thing, I don't understand the underlying problem. I must put myself in his shoes, and I do so in steps, even literally, by keeping track of the work force and by collecting stories of what happens. When somebody comes to get your services, they tell me what happens. I go to those who seek out the ministry and ask: "What is it that you're looking for? What help do you need? And then after you think about a possible solution, you bring it back to your doctor and to the missing medical staff and ask: Could this work? Would it be nice to do that? Then it's just a very grossly prepared thing to do, even scratched up a little bit, a rough idea about how this works. People even try it on paper: Yes, I would push a button here and it would take me here and it would look like this, yeah, this is convenient or no, this is uncomfortable, I'd like it to be this way or gay. The problem can then be adapted, and that is key. Instead of accepting a problem and returning it, we take a problem and work on the solution in steps. We understand the problem better and finally leave a solution where users have been asked - doctors, senators, or anyone: Is this a solution that really goes away from solving the problem? And after many steps have been made, we may have realized at the end that what people really wanted was not what they asked to do at first. But that is exactly what we have been going through during the epidemic. The first law was like this. Everything's cool, and we just have to throw it in here and you're just supposed to agree with everything. Here comes a huge bridge loan and all kinds of emergency help, and we don't have time to explain how this is really going to work. That's really unfortunate. How should we, who are not necessarily experts in all these issues, work - market measures, know whether the proposed results are possible? We have no idea unless we have time and space to consult the experts who understand the matter. Once again, we are walking into this trap. It was as simple as this bill when it was then that it didn't have to be so late for the council. We should have experience in seeing how this works, and it should be very easy to get a description of whether there are baits, if there are a little more adjustments. But no, it's just a change in time rules; fine as it is, we're just gonna change the time. But I have no idea if there is really something in the rules that would run better off or not, whether simply changing the date is enough. That's why we need reviews. That's what we need time. That it is possible to consult the confidential talk, as the previous talk pointed out. Again, we are seeing subtle tactics, the lack of understanding that governments are not the source of control. They have a role as a ministerial servant, and they need to respect that privilege of service. However, they have the wrong authority given them, not by thinking of their authority as a service, but only: I am in charge. It's just my wish that it's like this and it's not gay. Because.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u62	A respectable president. I just wanted to come up here because I'm that discussion in such a fresh memory, she's actually better at saying something in me. When you consider the terms of the law, the laws on air travel, and some small changes in the area, you may not even think how much rights were under it, it never occurred to you at first sight. I just think it's a reason for us to remember this and to keep this background in place now. Under these were factors that in themselves are the core of the civil rights. That this has happened, I think it's a bit of a textbook example that in such matters, things that have a good purpose in a difficult situation where anxiety is all around me, the rights go away. Of course, it is with human rights, these fundamental rights so important and so sacred that they are found in the Constitution, that the largest test of whether and how these rights work is, of course, when they are pressed. This is where the debate begins that there is so much money and such danger that there is no time to look at the matter, despite the fact that experts in the stage are flaunted, and they think that there should have been time there, when a flight drivers were obliged to deny passengers's transport with obvious results. Of course, being withheld from moving to the country means that a person will not be able to reach the country under certain circumstances. This rule should have applied to Icelandic citizens as well as to foreign citizens. A previous discussion of the matter has shown that, of course, the Constitution does not prohibit all discrimination between individuals. The Constitution and all our rights legislation are so built that when we compare people together, we are comparing the parallel circumstances and we are comparing whether the viewpoints behind differing regulations are perplexity or immaterial. Of course, there is no way to overlook the fact that the Constitution is very clear that Icelandic citizens will not be prevented from coming to the country and that they will not be expelled from the country. Experts have talked about this as one of the most important factors and one of the main points of the civil rights, the right to come to their own home state. I just wanted to come up here to remind you of this view, that these rights in the constitution that are under there, whether we're totally on the farm with them or across the line, about the basic rights of the people of the country, are not really meaningful if we don't make a pass at them when we're in a crisis.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u63	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct the change of various laws, extension of temporary documents, suggesting that temporary rights be extended to courts, police and politicians to use telecommunications and electronic solutions for certain cases. Based on the situation then at the time due to the coronus epidemic, the first approved provision was adopted on April 2020, and later on, on December 31, 2021, it was well established. In this way, courts have used electronic solutions since it was authorized, including for inclusion, for main therapies and for the extension of the custody surgical procedures. Clearly, the spread of the crown virus required an even greater delay. For the same reason, the county has increasingly used electronic solutions to treat the population of the dead with the aim of reducing unnecessary access to the county offices and ensuring that the services are not affected. It is therefore important to extend permission to electronic management. Then there has been an arrangement where police can take a research report through telecommunications systems was very effective and no ill effects were observed. In view of the fact that the effects of a pandemic crown virus can still be seen, it is important to extend the above - mentioned sources to electronic treatment. This allows time to consider whether such electronic solutions should be permanently implemented. So I suggest they be extended until the end of 2024. The bill also suggests an extension of a preliminary legal right to the courts allowing the National Court to be located outside the city of Reykjavík, a warrant approved by the General Assembly in February 2017, on January 1, 2022. From the time the National Court went into operation, the right has been established in Kópavogi. Since housing arrangements are still being carried out on the court's premises, it is suggested that the requested warrant be extended for another five years or to 1 January 2027. I suggest that the bill, a dignified president, will be followed by this discussion referred to what. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u64	Madam President. I think it's interesting that the highest. Minister is asking for temporary temporary temporary privileges in view that the government's policy declaration speaks a lot of digital revolution and digital Iceland. At least Four of these are things where I ask myself, " Why isn't it always like this? ' Why do we need to use Covid as an excuse for being able to communicate with someone digital and to provide digital documents? So I ask, why don't we just read all the articles on temporarily having this thing, and it just goes on? Chapter V then touches the land's rights and where he may be. I would have thought that there would be nothing to limit him to Reykjavík, but at least it could be kept in the Big National Land or even anywhere in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u65	A respectable president. Thank you. Gísli The Rafn for these questions and speculations by Dr. Hophni Ólafsson. Yes, that's exactly what's stated here, and I can agree. Of course, a senator in which we have reason to look even further at an electronic country and a digital revolution in this area. In fact, it is a work that has been going on for several years under the leadership of the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance and with great success, which only appears to us in our daily lives on the website of Iceland.is and health and all that is being introduced. So we are truly on the right path. Surely this has taught us here at the council a new practice that I believe is here to remain forever. When people from abroad need to arrive at a committee meeting, they need to make no longer travel long distances, but they will be able to share in their home meetings and they will save both money, time, and effort. Of course, we are on this journey, it takes time in a large environment, and we can be said that Covid pushed us to do this even more quickly. It is clear, then, that we are on this journey through the Ministry's office, we will continue on this journey, and much is being entered where there will be an extended period of time. But, of course, it must be handled in some total law to allow these changes. There is much work to be done in what to take into account all these factors. In terms of land rights housing, all judgments are being made in a new home. A report made by the Ministry of Economics indicates that the Supreme Court will be taken to the branch office, the Court of the Court of the Supreme Court, and that a new facility will be located in the local courts. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u66	Madam President. Thank you very much. A minister for the answers and good to know that we are on a journey when it comes to the language groups that are at the highest level. Minister. I wanted to use it later to ask the highest questions. Ministers to which objects are on the road and what we can expect to see will be digital in the very next few items. Minister is responsible.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u67	A respectable president. There are many things to look at when looking to where humans are on this path in the general government system. This applies not only to the Ministry of Justice but also to the whole administration. As I went inside earlier, our daily lives became increasingly evident to us. At the Ministry, there's also a lot of them. The treatment of judicial cases in a permanent digital costume is being accomplished as far as it can be done, as well as a complete analysis of the correctness of the judicial legislation, as well as the use of the electronic solutions that come in place. We've just opened a court order, it's just opened up this week, since the sufferers can watch their own electronics. This is happening, I'd say just about every aspect of the world where there's a chance of involving it. Of course, it takes time to introduce such fundamental changes, and it will take time for us to prepare for the overall law of how we control these sources.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u68	A respectable president. It is true of this matter, as is true of many of those leading up to the council these days, that it is temporaryized, used to establish something that may be a matter of temporaryity at this time. It's even here. conducted as a provision for various governments and courts to sue at telecommunications or on telephone meetings, to offer electronic treatments. The source was first set up for several months and was extended for over a year, and it was intended to apply until the end of this year. Now she is put back on temporary emergency, in panic, with no proper time to discuss the matter, and now to be extended to three years of age. V.E.G. In the past, a minister claimed that no ill effects were found on this project. I am curious, then, that what evidence is behind that claim? I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on that. Has there been any assessment, or is there any evidence that proves this? The few comments that have given you an opportunity to resolve the matter will include the following: reports that there have been discrepancies and have been called for further details and other activities that might have taken more time to do so. I just want to agree with what others have said today: We're out on the ice when we're taking it as a given that they can handle temporary forms of shock and long-term without ever having real time here to discuss these matters. They are important indeed. In addition to the questions I have directed to the highest. Minister, all I'd like to do is ask for some deliberate, careful work on the part of this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u69	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I think it would be nice to look at the bigger picture when we're taking these steps here at the council. There are various ways in which we can criticize the fact that this is happening, so we need to get temporary clearances. But why do we take these steps? Why was the council in its time to provide these temporary privileges? Yes, it was because of the serious situation that had developed in society, and it was to try to make the administration more productive and efficient for the inhabitants of the country, that the system could function despite the limitations that were obviously there. That's how we've reacted in every area of society, just like here at the council, to form as you look over the hall, where people are located, change the practice, and we've changed new rules. Many of these things have come to be. We've learned from this. We have created new technologies that enable us to make our actions more efficient and productive. I went over earlier that we've been on a very fast and specific road trip to implementing electronic solutions, Digital Iceland. We had to take some unexpected measures because of the Covid situation in those areas and I don't think any of us would have thought it was over less than two years ago when this shock wave hit us that we were standing here today and that we hadn't been resolved, that we still have this big problem that this disaster has given us. Hence, temporary documents were set aside for a short time because no one believed them. Now we're still on this journey, and we're going to continue on it, and I'd rather look at it when it comes to it, on the positive aspects that have come from the lessons we've learned in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u70	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Yet, I missed the answer to the question I raised to him about the evidence and information that led to the claim that no offenses had been found on this project. And then I'd also like to direct one more question to the highest level. Minister: If this is to be temporary, why is it suggested that it be for three years now and not actually for temporary purposes? Then, when a better schedule is available, there may be time for the council to consider whether this is an arrangement that we just want to have permanently and in what way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u71	A respectable president. None of our work of men is perfect, and of course there are some things that have been going on with what we're dealing with in this Covid situation. We can look there, I think, most of the community issues. We can also look back at the council and find some of the perjurers who have taken place in the council to form. We all know what it's been like here during the last term how it worked out now to get these digital meetings into with telecommunications and all of them. It wasn't there. There were certain maladies we wrestled; they were not heard when they were supposed to be heard, and they heard in humans when they were not to be heard, etc. So, of course, there are some negative factors involved. Of course, we're just trying to get it together, and it's been happening all over the community. Why three? Well, I guess they're just looking to make sure that we need a certain amount of space. We'll see today about that. Two years after this shock wave hit us, this Covid situation, we need more time to deal with that disaster. [[The president calls.]] He's not leaving us, and we need that time to introduce long-term legislation on the issues below. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u72	Madam President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. I'm on a level like this before. It turns toward time. The logic of the case, as stated in this section on the grounds and need for legislation, is this: Since all uncertainty about the spread of the Korean virus on the land has not been removed, it is necessary to suggest that preliminary legal rights of the proposed legislation be extended. You know, sooner or later. I completely understand the strategy, if there were any, that the future should bring about the work done over a year ago. But to take the entire election period around here, because the end of 2024 is just 15 minutes in elections - if this government is limping for the whole time and if there's no signal for election in the meantime, it's a really long time. I've believed all the Covid procedures, especially those in the costume of temporary procedures, should be short-term. Even if it wasn't for a second, I'm afraid we'll be putting Covid in costumes planned for over three years. We're all long ago going to be out of the Covid epidemic emergency at the time, and I think it's gonna be a little late for the general agreement to be turned away from what we've been doing lately. V.E.G. Minister, I can totally understand the logic support, this is part of the stage we're going to watch for a long time, but I certainly don't understand why I'm going to put this temporary operation in a crown suit and plan to wear them for over three years.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u73	A respectable president. I'd like to mention it again and again that maybe there's little so bad at all that there's no good at all. But we've learned from this Covid situation that we've been able to generate technology, and we've been able to change our tactics. This will improve efficiency and comfort for those who enjoy it. This occurs in many parts of the community. In my introduction, I mentioned it here that there is very good experience with many of what has been inserted and that there is reason to look for lasting changes in the system. It is, of course, something that is just learning at this time, in the light of experience and the development of technology. Electrotherapy, e.g. at the scene of the Ministry I represent, has returned something in the probationary database that shows us that it is time to watch this in the long term. I view this time as a continuing museum in the probationary database, and then we will act on lasting legislation to introduce these changes. It requires adjustment in terms of such sensitive lawsuits as those mentioned in this Ministry. I can totally agree that I hope it doesn't take three years. I hope that within that time, we will be free of this threat and have provided a total law that turns on these and other matters, where we take these steps into the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u74	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I think this may have to happen on the basis of a secretary's policy and in its consultation. Every day, we send a message from ourselves here in this room with what we agree to. I think it would be really bad to send from here the message to say, "Hey, we're going to be on temporary extensions of the Covid operation, approximately throughout the season, to the end of 2024." That's not a good message. We're supposed to send the message that we're going to get out of this state of the first, not at the end of 2024. I'm the highest. Minister to take this case from the crown clothes and put it in place of the Minister's policy. This may well be the best, but it seems to me everything in the consultation section that no reviews have been received. The people handling it do not seem to make much remarks at this time, but I don't think we're supposed to send out the message that we're going to be in a Covid emergency operation out in 2024.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u75	A respectable president. It has naturally been presented in my speech earlier and in what I have been saying here that we are looking for the future. It was in times of emergency that a person began to take experimental steps to improve efficiency, to be more effective, in order to serve more fully those to whom we are to serve. It's not just our experience, it's everywhere. And it has shown us that we are taking lasting steps in these matters, making lasting changes. In fact, these policies were taken a few years ago and would likely have had a longer approach if the situation had not developed. I don't think there's any choice and there's absolutely no way we're dressing the case in some Covid outfit, even though we say that there's a reason to extend this to three years of age. I think it's just making space just so that you can follow along, maybe with more speed, that policy, though under the cover of temporary law changes, in order to create total laws in the light of the experience that is gathering in the bank every day. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u76	Mr. President. It might be informative to compare the two prime points we have in our consideration here that parallel the content of the matter, but to describe various aspects of the procedure described by different forms of the Minister of Ministers on the extension of temporary warrants in various laws and on the bill of climate change for air travel, which is also about the extension of longevity. You see, there are two striking differences between these matters. First of all, the discussion. On November 12 of this magazine, the bill was consulted by the government for ten days. You see, it's no big deal. V.E.G. The minister of wood could not do the same with his bill that we discussed here earlier today. It's incredibly lame. I want to thank you very much. Minister Jón Gunnarsson for showing us black in white how to do these things better than the highest. Minister Sigurður Ingi Jónsson. Then there is the second factor that reflects on the other side, with regard to the time frame being set up. The bill to correct the conversion of air travel laws, see, that's what I want to say, the tradition that created here during the first few days of the Council's Covid response to have an option that we were legally establishing on hand runs well and a narrow scrolled in time. This was of utmost importance at the beginning of the epidemic when conversation at the Assembly Hall was more limited than it is today, and committee work was in fearful contrast with what happens best, and while society was at the point where I think people have had a bad time to keep a focus on us. There was a lot of work that took place during this first month of the Covid pandemic, and bringing in a bill from the Council was perhaps not one of the things that scored at the top of the list of people from their distant homes with their children who could not go to school and all that. However, in order to meet the point of conjugal treatment, we began to make the practice of enforcing laws for a short time; six months, a year, not more than that. The tradition of maintaining the Minister of wood in his bill on the extension of the period of air travel suggests that the law is extended by six months, to July 1st, 2022. But the highest. Minister of state goes very far in terms of the time frame and suggests extension to 2024. From the discussions here today, I think it may only be found that it is too long. Of course, we should consider whether these sources can be established for telecommunications in various administrative units permanently in law. Then let's do it with a proper bill that's given proper treatment at the Ministry and at the council, not something that's over here 15 minutes at Christmas. Therefore, I would like to direct it to the Honorable General and Education Committee that it alters this bill so that it might harmonize with the tradition that was created here, the tradition that the Minister of Internal Affairs recognizes, that we give such permission only for a short time. I would suggest that the committee investigate the extension of temporary clearances by the Minister of Internal Affairs to the mid - 2022, say six months, and that the Ministry uses the time to pursue the work needed to examine the stability of these sources. You can only bring it a bill to us here in spring. It can be sent to you by a review of two to three weeks from the council, as we would like to do in any case that should be well worked, but can't get into cases that come so soon before the New Year's Eve. This would be a much better solution and would free us of unnecessary arguments over the fact that there is no temporary extension to three years but permanent, something we can easily get rid of and do things considerably better on the way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u77	A respectable president. I would like to follow the suggestion. Tenth. Smoke. n., Ingi In Jónsson came with us. That's what I'd do in the topv's answers. Minister that he did not seem to be able to answer the question about whether any ill effects had been on these sources for electronic treatment. I know from my experience from the field of technology that it is important to talk to users, and it always takes a little longer than is expected, so I would like to contribute it to the highest level. The minister was pressing that the Ministry conducts such an investigation. I agree with what. Tenth. Reykv.. n. that three years is way too long. I'd rather suggest to a respectable General and Education Committee that the time intended to establish permanent legislation is before the end of 2022. Then you can do this inspection now in spring, introduce it to a council. It is possible to agree well with governments and political groups on how this would be done. I'd also think this was a thing that was the highest. Minister wanted to finish while these cases are still under him. So I'm directed to the Honourable General and Education Committee to give the Ministry and the Supreme Court. A minister's small maintenance by not giving three years but by looking further to the completion of this by the end of 2022.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u78	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalise a change in telecommunications laws, telecommunications laws and laws on the investment of foreign workers in business. The bill is based on the reevaluation of the government's programs and equipment since then and possible changes in the ownership of communications infrastructure, such as foreign institutions and communications services in the country. It was prepared at the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs in consultation with the Department of Employment and Development and Communications. Clearly, telecommunications and communications services are the basis for a number of social and economic important activities. It is the government's duty to take appropriate measures to ensure that national national security and public interests are the best security and the reliability of communication at any given time. The work of the important infrastructure of society, including the state, is built on the basis of the on the effectiveness and security of communications networks and communication services that have to do with that national security. The concept of national security will be viewed as the security of the State. National telecommunications and communications protocols are also considered national security. At that time, the public interest in communications is not only consumed by the fact that services are available when it is needed as a reference to the concept of communication and the importance of communication with emergency services 112, as well as confidential communication. The bill is based on public security, in the context of communication, being included in the terms of public interest. The objective of the bill is to contribute to the protection of public interest and national security in telecommunications. A foreign holding of communications and communications companies may be believed to increase the likelihood of the elimination of isolated factors in their functions, such as for economic advantage or for synergies. The existence of communications companies outside Icelandic jurisdiction may, in some respects, interfere with the control of a remote telecommunication agency, as well as as the increase in the risk profile of the operators is inevitable in such alibis. The bill is designed to face the above challenges, thus increasing the trauma of communication in Iceland. The bill suggests the following changes to existing communication laws: First, a more detailed request for communication companies on risk management and management tools will be provided for the implementation of sectoral factors for Icelandic jurisdiction. The provision of the EU code directive on communications and modeling in the norse was looked forward to the implementation of relevant regulations. Among other things, it will be necessary for a communications company to move a work that has been published for Icelandic jurisdiction to become a source of the situation where it is considered a risk of running a network of communication networks or telecommunications as a threat to future failures and to public interest or national security. This requires that a communications company be able to restore quickly a communication service that ends because of a process of extending Icelandic law. Second, there will be the legal notifications of communications companies to the telecommunications agency on new information or other issues related to the traumatization of telecommunications, communications services, public interest or national security. Third, there is the provision for the maintenance of telecommunications monitoring. Fourth, it is suggested that a code be established that leads to the location of communication networks. The secretary can then issue in a Regulation that the network and equipment of communication networks, which are considered important in terms of public interest or national security, is essential for the effectiveness or control of national communications within the country, should be placed in Icelandic jurisdiction. This Regulation will take into account the reviews of a remote and state police agency based on their risk assessment. At the same time, it may be stated in the Regulation that such devices and systems should be conducted in Icelandic jurisdiction, including national legislation. monitoring the activity and state of communication networks. They even live there. behind the importance that the country is at any given time needed knowledge and is able to restore its services under pressure. The existence of communications companies is not limited by open legislation, including the location of the systems and systems of communications networks or their management. Such trends are already under way, driven by technological and financial advantages. Reassessment of the security arrangements and communications equipment is a ongoing matter. A risk assessment with respect to national or national safety may warrant the implementation of a Regulation on the basis of the terms. The bill also suggests changes to existing telecommunications laws. Their aim is to more clearly explain the Agency's surveillance rights and its role in public interest and national security. Among other things, telecommunications agencies will be permitted to demand information about owners, owners' chains and those who actually represent voting rights, executives, managers, surveillance and management systems within a telecommunications company. It will also be legalized for the pressures of administration guilty for violating a duty to provide the right and adequate information. Finally, the current laws on international investments are proposed for employment. A minister can bind foreign investment conditions in order to prevent them from threatening the security of the country, against national rule, or for public security. These changes were consulted by the Ministry of Presidency on Clarification of Investment and related activities due to national security through the proposed contributions of the bill during the spring Summit. During the preparation of the bill, average and balance views were considered, taking into consideration laws in the North countries for the security of communications. Other northern nations have laws and institutions aimed at promoting the crisis of infrastructure, the protection of public interest and national security in telecommunications. The evaluation of the potential financial impact of the approved Radiocomputer's agreed bill will be provided in a more comprehensive bill for new communication laws planned for the third time next month. A discussion of that bill took place at the last assembly, and some of it is similar to that bill. The bill is urgent, and it is an important step in improving the terms of public interest and national security in the field of communication, requiring rapid development in technology and business development of stable reassessments, equipment and security measures by the government. A respectable president. I have now made clear the general subject of the bill and suggest that it be followed by this discussion referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u79	Mr. President. We discussed only at the beginning of a meeting how shocking it would be that this bill was now coming to the council when the appeal of sales of these important communications had been going on for over a year. But the minister is recently involved in this case, and I'm not going to follow it up against her, but I'd like to ask him about the location, mostly to 2 g. In view of the fact that a minister can by Regulation require that the work be placed in Icelandic jurisdiction. The minister mentioned that it would make it difficult for a remote telecommunications agency to play a role in moving from Icelandic jurisdiction. I'd like to wonder if this could work the other way too. If the law was foreign, whether foreign countries were beginning to have some way into Icelandic communications wood, whether a state could provide laws that should be shared by a operator involved in Icelandic telecommunications to provide that government information, and even an employee's obligation to do so secretly. I also ask, in view of all the great interests involved, whether there is a weak legal authority at 2 Timothy 3: 1 - 5. g., whether we need to demonstrate the will of the council more clearly that it is obligatory to location in Icelandic jurisdiction on this foundation of Icelandic society. At least I would have expected something stronger than to carry a law in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u80	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. These are just normal speculations, questions asked by the Ministry itself, how would it best be settled in the legislation? It may be complicated to hit a straight law and shape it today because it's a market, things change fast, technology is fast. We hardly know what communication will be like here in a few years. It was therefore considered better to do this in this way, and the importance of consultation and broad impressions are clearly laid down in order to apply and establish this Regulation. I think, after the evaluation that has been made in the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs, it's wise to go this way. Then, of course, we'll consider a bill about new communication laws at the beginning of the next year, and then these questions will come back up again. We're trying to take on some of the ones we believe are important now. Section 2. Go a long way, but I don't think we're going to use it until something else in the law doesn't work. So I believe this is better established by a secretary of law.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u81	Mr. President. I think that at the Department of Residents, the Ministry that's got all the other infrastructures, people would think of opening up for that, for example. that the land's net could be in a different jurisdiction than the United States. I think these are such fundamental interests that the committee must take a more serious view of establishing this as a clear law, not a weak legal authority for Ministers. I'd also like to ask the Minister about future ownership. This situation arises from a French fund making an offer in Milan. What if the fund decides to continue selling the item to someone else? Is there any shadowy rules for announcements to a telecommunications agency, or should we look for prisoners in role models of other laws? I'll fall, for example. The law of national capitals approved here in the last winter is made clear that the Icelandic state can intervene in sales of parts of ISNIC now or just the good old law on the Þingalval national park where no home can be sold, not even between relatives, without having it done for the Constitution committee and receiving its witness.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u82	A respectable president. Yeah, now we've come up with ideas of selling on the interiors of the country. We see in the countries around us that infrastructure, such as telecommunications, airports, and airports, are often owned and employed by private members, domestics and foreigns, and that is our job to create the environment, have the guidelines and provide national security and public interests of all means. But there is no reason to believe that the same arrangement cannot be carried on this earth as it does in other lands. Hv. A senator then asks if there is a planned continuation of communications wood, as I understood it, and if nothing comes in. Yeah, that's when the same process goes back on. If a foreign person is going to buy, the same procedure is involved. Then it's on the topic field of industry and innovation, these laws that are also here for discussion and changes in sales of foreign organisations. Then, if the regulations of the bill were to be accepted, a stop would again be tested by the relevant minister or condition. Here we are making sure that we can set conditions for such a sale rather than just say no or not do anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u83	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of history and answer so far. Of course, this is always serious when the interiors of nations are sold. We can see a close - cut example. Recently, the international airport in Kampala, Uganda, was bankrupt, owned by the Chinese. It is now bound by an entire country, whether the Chinese want them to continue or not. But what I wanted to ask the highest. A minister in this morning's discussion of the meeting board found that it was a long time ago that the trade of foreign parties on telecommunications was discussed. But I did so because in the bill, as it is suggested, there was no consultation with interest stakeholders or the public. I think it's very bad, and I hope more consultation will be done with new songs as high as possible. Minister has been preaching in the new year. But the question that I would like to ask is that we have had no consultation: Has this law been considered to have any effect on the communications companies here in the country today? For example, this law suggests that technology can be banned from certain countries, a technology that is already in use in the country of telecommunications.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u84	A respectable president. That's what I'm talking about. A senator first crossed, i.e. ... andwe're reactingwith this bill. We're trusting and ensuring the trauma. And because of what? A senator took an example from another country, and we are making sure that something could happen. With reference to this matter, of course, time has been short. Of course, on the second bill, new legislation, it has already been widely consulted and will be carried back to standard therapy. It is very important that the new legislation receive routine and good treatment. That's why this bill has a sharp cover, which shows the most important thing we believe is that it's important to be here now that we have a way to intervene if we don't get a deal. And there's the line. Then, concerning the impact on other communications companies, technology and so on, it is possible if the regulations are applied. Of course, it is difficult, and it is not desirable to use without careful impact, and only if it is a threat to national security. We are not thus supporting the use of technology from various countries with some legislation here at the council because we are afraid of it. No, there is an impact assessment and risk analysis of such things from a telecommunication clinic, from a state police officer, and an assessment of the national security interest of Iceland in every step we take when we limit the sales of private agents or the use of technology.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u85	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. It is my hope that a new bill will receive a legal treatment that this bill has not been given. This bill has not even been placed in the hands of a government or to the presidents or to any foreign authority or anyone, but it has been kept very much from all agreements. We talked here about Covid and what we've been doing in time of crisis, and I think it's the highest. A minister may want to listen to some of what was said about consulting that relationship and the importance of it. But today, Iceland's communications network has arrived at Alman Guard's uncertainty level. I think that, according to my knowledge, this is the first time we've made use of a public defence situation to define the risk of what could happen to our communications network. I wanted to ask the highest. Minister, in fact, who undertook public protection during his previous Minister's reign, how to ensure crisis when it is time to coordinate operations with foreign authorities rather than just local communications companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u86	A respectable president. It is true that this bill may not receive the traditional therapy for a time, but it still receives Congress treatment, and I hope to establish the discussions that are going on to secure the interests of the State and the people with regard to important structures in Milu's property. They're miles away. I hope they finish soon, and thereby reduce the pressure on the approved bill, and the council can take a little longer on this bill. But let me remind you again that the total law has taken place before the council from that traveling minister and local government. That's what came up with it. It has been updated in accordance with the reviews and other matters, and it has been discussed on a committee and will return to the council, so there will be no shortage of consultations with the total law. In other words, I think it's the best result. We need to reevaluate everything at a time. These objects develop rapidly and in the face of trauma, we deal with those countries in the area of security today. Indeed, it is very important in time of Internet security and communication that security in cooperation across borders is not limited to one country, such as this danger we have discussed over the last days is so well illustrated. There are all countries, and then there is security cooperation with other countries, including the U.S. WRITER IN NATO, on Internet security, it's very important. It is not that we can have such a cooperation with companies in those areas, as we governments will, which will ensure that we will have some way of dealing with such a situation, since we are a total island if we are not going to make use of larger countries and contribute to international cooperation in this category as well as in others.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u87	Mr. President. It was in 2005 that the failure was made when the Síman foundation was sold. The party opposed the operation and sale, and they wanted to have the foundation torn apart and to keep the network in official possession, but the heads of the former, the members of the Parliament, the Foreign Party, and the prosecuting party and their ministers said it could not be torn apart. They made extensive talks here at a council to argue that it could not be torn apart but was obviously wrong, since right now we are talking about Milan's sale. We're talking about infrastructure, which is the basis for communication in Iceland, which was sold at its time, in 2005, and I reiterate that it's obvious that the mistake was made there, and that's why we're in this position. President. We may not have time to correct the mistakes, but we can set a law and order that will ensure maintenance, security and government authority to take over the company if an emergency situation arises or the private person is not qualified to perform such an important operation. It has to be done to prevent owners from being able to carry out their own desires or because of incompetent Icelandic society, taking the company out of Iceland's jurisdiction, or selling out of the country the necessary tools for the operation. But why, Mr. President, is there any reason to worry about this sale? This is because Mila is not an ordinary company that doesn't matter who owns or how you run it. The establishment of the company involves the national public and the national security. But people ask, isn't it just a good girl? Pillar profits that have about 16% in Milan, and so do the pensions. So it's just not nice? There is reason to worry because Mila has the largest segment in the country's founder cables against NATO, which is Mila, responsible for the management and maintenance of all the strands in the string. There are eight threads in the string. Milah to five, NATO three; and Mila toss the business of this network. The fiber - optic cables are the basis for most of the communications systems used in Iceland, including the telephone system, the mobile phone system, TETRA-exploitation systems, the important information connections for the major national networks and the public Internet connection. Almost all radio and data exchanges are through fiber optics and then through three cables that connect Iceland to the outside world. We can break Iceland off most of its relationship with the outside world and have serious consequences on the economic, safety, protection and public interests, so this is a big deal we're dealing with here. The Investment Society Ardian France SA is buying Mila, and we need to set up a wealth of requirements for the Society, who has a holding on such important infrastructures. míla must not enter the investment budget without a guarantee of community security. If it goes wrong, it is the common people who suffer the damage and harm. The problem with investment funds is that although we know who owns the fund today, others may be playing the game tomorrow with some other goal and plans other than the owners that go today. The law on the investment of foreign businesses states in Article 12. that if a foreign investment threatens the security of the country, a minister can stop such an investment, which would allow a minister to decide within eight weeks of the contract. The Milu deal was made on October 23, the past. V.E.G. Thus, the minister has time to December 17 to stop the Shiman sale of Milu if the government believes that sales can lead to national security. We don't know what you're talking about at the bargaining table, where you're falling apart about the conditions you need to be in order for the deal to go through. We have to trust that it's sitting at our finest people's table, and they're looking out of public interest, but it's not a national security problem here and there, because it's a very important matter for us Icelanders. The bill we're discussing here is talking about outdoors. It's a big deal, looks like, in this bill, it's to protect us Icelanders from the harm that the company might do if the company saves a particular operation or sells some equipment or goes abroad and out of Iceland's jurisdiction. As far as I can see, Mr President, is concerned with the regulations in the bill and this regulations as well as the fact that it's too weak. It's gonna be a good time. Environmental and transport committees should be very careful to ensure that these regulations are maintained. Then there is the obligation to a telecommunication agency, and it needs to be considered whether it is a technical knowledge, a trust fund, and a ability to perform this monitoring role to the best of its ability. The committee needs to review the risk factors, call for specialists in this field, and map out what can go wrong and how we can place the risk factors in this system of laws that we have the opportunity to do right now. The problem, of course, is that we have only a few hours to discuss these important matters. Of course it does. Congress officials do not regret spending a night in the day, but when things are so fast, there is a danger of making mistakes that will draw attention to themselves. That's the severity of it. I told you before, Madam President, this deal was made on October 23, but it wasn't the one we first had an idea that something like this might happen. We knew that a long time ago. But it's not until today, December 13, that we're here in the Senate Hall discussing a bill that's supposed to be a public interest concern. The objective of the bill is to protect national security and public interest from this sale of Milan to foreign parties. All over the world, or if we look at the countries we want to compare with, either they're either finished or they're signing and accepting laws that are important to foreign authorities, and of course we need to look to them. But in what setting is this sale going through with these noises? Our legal environment is very weak. It's a topic of discussion, and we are told that we are entering the Parliament's entire law on key infrastructure from the Ministry of Presidency, but it's not yet arrived. They do not exist and there is a pattern of how the law is, definition of the importance of infrastructure and how we should protect them, etc. effects which are undesirable. Communications, yes, there's a bill coming up on the total telecommunication laws. We got to see it in spring or last assembly. The government was interested in putting this important bill through, but it was a government team that in the last days was being thrown out of the table for the sake of individuals or treaties or what it was now between the governmental parties. Of course, there were things that were of great importance and would have been relevant to the legal process today. Then there is the law on investments, foreign investments in business. They're 30 years old, if I remember correctly. There have been a number of developments in the telecommunications and markets back then, so there are laws that need to be revised. This sale on infrastructure, which is the basis of international telecommunications, to an investment fund, is now being carried out in this weak, legal environment just before we have fixed it up and we have some hours, the lawgiver, to evaluate whether this bill we'll discuss when it comes to national security and public interest. So I strongly criticize you, Mr. President, this lateness. I can't figure out why on earth it took me so long to make this bill that isn't so great when you turned it around. I don't think there'll be any risk factors we have to watch out for. I got it. I got it. The members of the Environment and Transport Committee that are being promoted and encouraged to bring to the aid of all the most skilled experts in this area, so we can be sure that our goals will be reached to ensure national security and public interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u88	A respectable president. We're gonna go for a second. A senator may disagree with the main campaign for the situation, regarding foreign investments in the country. But I'm not going to get that argument today. I'd rather bring in a few things, if you don't mind. A senator still feels that the matter is unclear. Hv. A senator mentioned that everyone is in complete contrast with what we have on the counter. Of course not. The present transport and local government minister has considered our objective at this level of negotiation, and it has been published in the media, and I don't know better than that. A senator also sits in the National Security Council. I can restate here in the conference's talk program that there are three: first, that the device's location in Milu's important communications network and its operation is in Icelandic jurisdiction. Second, Milu's important communications network has been provided by Iceland producers who are involved in a security partnership with or countries in the EEA, and third, that Mila provides adequate information on the role of national security interests, real partners and their plans for the development and management of Milu's communications networks. These talks have been successful, and I hope that a little faster is the time pressure on the subject. Then it is asked if a remote exchange agency is sufficiently powerful for monitoring. All I'd like to do is remind them of a recent renewal of the Agency's newest legislation on which its role is sharpened. Although we are still making up for it, she already has rich sources. We make clear about this source. Then you will ask, " Is it strong enough to say whether we are preventing the survival of the specified factors? ' Yes, we do. We build, for example. in the examples of Norwegian and Finnish legislation, and we also assume that a risk assessment for public interest and national security may provide reasons for implementing a Regulation as required. I just wanted to come in to these things to explain possible things as well. A senator was still vague.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u89	Mr. President. I don't know how many people have expressed me in general about foreign investments in Iceland. Of course, it's important. But here we are talking about wood, which is the basis for communication, and it's a big deal, and it's more complicated when it comes to foreign investments, and I don't talk about it when it's an investment fund, and things there are buying and selling. Of course, we need to be very careful. I want public property of such structures, at least There are good laws and rules around how such activities should be carried out so that national security and public security are being maintained. But I'm sure everyone agrees that it's good to get a foreign currency into the country. There's nothing wrong with that. But that's not what we're talking about here. We're talking national security and public interest. I haven't seen the conditions being negotiated. Of course, I've heard of what they are, but I haven't seen them to evaluate them and see if they're holding them. That's the way it is. I think it may be weak, and there may be something else when the committee starts working with the bill, to be only under regulations when it is spoken of as a workout. I want law against such important activities beyond the jurisdiction of Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u90	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech, and if I understand what she said, he will agree. I'm sorry that the preparations for this case have been made, the perfunctory. There is, in fact, my concern, because my approach is first and last of all, of public safety, public interest and national security. Only briefly regarding the sale of the Símans at its time - these are valid indications, legitimate reflections, of whether or not the distribution system had been sold. I thought so. I had a certain umbilical examination. I've been through this again. I'm still thinking that it was not wrong to sell the distribution system, but on the grounds that the rule is in order, on the grounds that, on the basis of a government that takes account of having a regular work, have an mail and communications agency and now the remote agency being able to have public interest in it, the Contesting Commission has concluded that it is not trying to crush it, etc. We were talking here about transport systems. We see that the transfer system of electricity, which is by government and owned by the state, is not necessarily the best way to speak to the Westerners, the Eastlands, the Southnesians, it's not exactly the same thing between them. Nevertheless, I would like to say: These are very normal views because they are huge interests. And my God, what this area and this field have become in these less than 20 years, where information has become the most valuable information in the world, and especially in the matter of defense and security. It's a understandable point of view, I respect it, but we're just against each other when it comes to this. But I'd like to ask what. A member of the National Security Council: Did NATO get an opinion on the affairs of the three strands or the three strands that NATO has? Second, because public security uncertainty has been declared: Has the National Security Council been called together to review the situation as it is now, how may this issue affect our safety regarding information and network? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u91	Mr. President. National Security Council has discussed the plans and thereafter the sale, as reported at the highest level. Prime Minister, chairman of the National Security Council. I think it's a good idea that the committee calls for NATO's representatives to cross the defense side of the case. That's what I think it's necessary to do. I know there's been a conversation with NATO, but it's not enough to get some information out of it. Rather, it's the committee's need to call in a representative of NATO to review the agreements between Mitora and NATO on the operations of the strings, and at the same time, whether these contracts will continue and cross over to the new operators. No. National Security Council has not been called together. I haven't looked through my e-mail lately, but the level of public defense has been set on today and has not been filled, so I know, has been called up for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u92	A respectable president. Yes, I have been quite critical of the work of the National Security Council. Well, then I hope I'm not throwing the bad stuff at you. A member of the council who is experienced at this point will end up in a smaller section; the secret government of prime minister and foreign ministers is vice president. A second year has passed since discussions about the sale of Milan were considered. At a time when the distribution system was sold in this chair, by the prime minister and then the Foreign Government of the Foreign Party and Independence Party, it was said that this should be done in Icelandic. Why? Not necessarily because of nationalistic love alone but because of national security. I simply thought that these matters were being reviewed when the holding was going over there, especially by national security. I'm going to come to this in my speech later on. What I've wondered about with the National Security Council, because two years have passed, I've missed the initiative on the part of the existing transport and local government minister and current secretary. My question is, then, had a minister and present initiative to introduce the matter, what interests are involved, for the National Security Council? Would he be unable to discuss the matter in mind? I think it is of great importance that this initiative has been shown from there, especially in view of the fact that earlier this year there was much discussion about these matters. Although we were merely discussing inactive wood, there was a lot of discussion when the companies showed and Vodafone sold their inactive infrastructure. There was nothing unnatural about that sale because it was inactive inside. Still, there was much discussion. What do we do if? Then it happens that we're being sold here, active infrastructure. I simply thought our safety valves would start. I would like to ask, then, would the minister have taken the initiative to agree with the National Security Council on this matter? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And is there anything in this that might lead to the very thing that Danir faced back then when they provided permission for information to the United States, to enter the Internet, over two years ago? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u93	Mr. President. First, I'd like to say about the National Security Council: National Security Council is under the law of consultation. There are three ministers, a U.S. Marshal, National Guard, a rescue officer - a composite group like this - and there is one general and one general of the council. The idea of these members of the council in there is to have a connection with the council. However, national security advice is a matter of consultation. National Security Council is not a government over Iceland. It's not like that. So it is the government that is responsible for the project completely. What happens at the scene of the National Security Council is confidential, even the program is confidential. This is so that these parties can speak freely and in confidence about important matters. I think it matters. However, this has been observed many times by the highest standard. Prime Minister that this matter has been discussed specifically in the National Security Council and the Supreme Court. The Minister of the Interior has thus served as a presentation and background. I have no idea if he took the initiative. The discussion, of course, was that we needed to find out what the situation in this matter is. I'd like to reiterate that it is the government of Iceland that is responsible for this position and ministers of the seminary, not the National Security Council. It's just not that kind of a scene. I hate changing the part of the discussion. Of course, a national security Council is a big word, but it is a ground for consultation, an important one, but it does not tell you what to do or to send conclusions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u94	President reports he's been receiving talks from the group of Falcons on the turn of human committees, sir. 1.mg. Section 16. Congress, so that the Eyjólfur of Aarhusson takes his place as the head of a budget committee instead of Inga Sæland, who will be a vice in the same committee, Jakob Frímann Magnússon takes his place as the head of the State Department of State rather than the Eyolphon of Age and Tómas A. Tómasson will be a deputy in the same committee instead of Frímann Guðmundur Ingi Magnússon, and eventually replaces EylálfjörðurEyjólfur Ármannsson member of the World General and Education Committee for Education, in the place of James Fräuleindmur I Kristinsson, who would take his place as a guardian in the economic and commercial committee for the Eyjólfur's Ármannsson of the Year. These changes are considered acceptable without vote if no protests are made.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u95	Mr. President. This bill that we're discussing here tonight is properly revised to Síman's personalization in 2005 and would like to agree with most of that as well. Harðardóttir In her talk about how people were led to believe that the foundation of the communications network from the Shiman's other business factors could not be understood. Then it turned out so perfectly possible that here we are in a few years later discussing how to sell the base net out of the country. It is a little strange to read this bill and to find a particular review of how this very important network of communications is dealt with, for example, based on the way we would discuss it. Um, let's say a base of electrical energy or the road system. It has been reported that these shallowwoods, the telecommunications, were torn away from all other inner structures of the government. They are now serving at the Department of Wende, but telecommunications are being developed to another Ministry, where any other law is to be expected to be valid. It is true to mention what we have just entered at the beginning of a meeting today that it is very strange how long it would have been since the first stirs had begun to notice that investors were interested in buying Milu. News was written about it last September, and then this year July, it was still written that a number of investors were preparing a bargain in Milan. One must ask: " Why did this long period of time come, why did the last winter pass without government wandering around that it might have to take action here? ' [[Taken out on: right.]] It's national security and national security, national security and national defense suit from the Independence Party and State Agency. I wouldn't have expected such lightliness when it comes to the security of society's infrastructure. Nonetheless, it isn't until the damage is done, or if you don't use such a validated wording, not until a purchase offer has come, and the French fund is here, and is about to hand deed at Mitla, that the government is running around and is making the most of the bill we have here in front of us. It is, of course, not an acceptable procedure when it comes to something as important as the basic communication system of an entire country. I'm not going to extend the discussion by discussing how bad it was actually moving Mia out of the government's hands, but maybe just mention, for example. the large sums of money that have slipped out of the telecommunication fund to make sure that areas that do not meet market leaders are enjoying the rights they have become secure in their relations with the outside world. Mila may not have, and may not have to contend with the whole country, so perhaps it is proper to ask, as was the case when news of selling Mia: Is there any reason to let a private person hold on to a service that cannot be covered? Mila is such a service. We are living in a period of natural significant privatization in the governments of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter. It's been that a private part of the road system and PPP operation in the road system, but I wouldn't have thought these infrastructures were the same target burned. So I'm only beginning to agree that the bill itself is one of the most important things in this bill, and it's probably one of the most important things in the history of this bill, and it's sort of amazing what's gone wrong. Here, a minister in answer said that the Ministry had completely asked itself, as I asked her in reply, if it would be better not to oblige those who run socially important wood to be within the Icelandic jurisdiction rather than to implement it with a weak regulations as it is in the bill. This was just too complicated for the Ministry to organise. I think it's important enough to make this loyal place so that the Ministry just has to bite the tough guy and do something complicated. I expect we'll seriously examine it on the Environment and Transport Committee to correct these problems on the bill, but for that reason, of course, I'm afraid, as we have seen, that the speed could make a mistake so that we don't get our hands on this. That's why it would have been good if it had been the highest. The government would have used a better time and brought a full bill that would cover all the questions in this case. In a report and history of the Supreme Court. More than anything, a minister was the law, and basically a committee with the possibility of a telecommunication clinic to monitor telecommunications. But I have to tell you, this works the other way too. This is something we may even worry about. Suppose Iceland's communications infrastructure was expelled from X's country and X's country were passed a law required by the operator to spy on telecommunications, on their systems, and deliver the X data to the government. Does this mean that X country has some kind of jurisdiction in Iceland, just because our nets are technically in their hands? How can we deal with this? You see, it's a little difficult. Let's say, for example. that governments in this unnamed land insisted that such delivery be concealed. Then there's nothing you can do. Even if we place very clear laws, various forms of penalties, and guilt laws, we may find ourselves in trouble. At that time, however, people are motivated only to avoid being caught up, and it is just as likely that they will try to find some way out of the rules to please the government of the other country. These are not distant troll stories. They are just something we have regular examples of, such as. Regarding the network of the U.S. government through dance communications wood, both conscious and willing to dance the government. How glad we are, then, that we do not have to make more of this provision! Then it is rather bad that such a definition has not been defined. A key source because the prime minister will give the bill of the material to the council and thus the box for the future emergency control will be unclear. You might also ask yourself, " Is the regulations involved in these matters on the law on the investment of foreign workers quite clear and strong enough over the potential reselling in Milu to the third party? ' And this is quite extraordinary, Mr. President, in view of how easy governments have been to make better for other affairs, e.g. in cases that hear about the Department of Woods, which holds all infrastructure but telecommunications. There we agreed only in a previous law on the change in electricity law, which even left behind the privatization possibilities on the land net when the company was formed. It was added to the following court: the European Commission shall live on behalf of the Icelandic government and/or rural society. Now, as we've seen here in our discussion, the Landsnet is not perfect in the construction of transport workers, and there are many things to add to its operation. But this is where the safety point comes from. We've got one system outside the distribution of electricity across the country. It must be a social property. We agreed on that in June. But then, suddenly, there is something else about the telecommunications and all the information in the country. Unfortunately, all of this was personal in 2005, but there must be a stronger way to put some strong ties around it. But then it's time, Mr. President. Environmental and transport committees are given four days to complete this. There are huge political issues in this bill, which is returned incompletely to the council, and we're supposed to finish this before the weekend. It is natural that the government's completely unpleasant behavior at the council. I must end this with the light notes, Mr. President, because we have also discussed other laws to improve the environment of this business, which is the communication law, a global review of communication laws. It was just reviewed in the past that they were so ready for a spring environmental and transport committee. There were very few of them on the line to finish them. What killed a complete reexamination of telecommunications was just some dagger between the government parties, another example of how, what to say, the inconsistencies of the government parties have a direct and a significant impact on society. With a complete re-examination of telecommunications, the knots could have been better equipped for some of the Milusala. There are also other things hanging on that spit. An invitation at the frequency range for the 5G substitution, e.g., there's waiting for us to finish that bill. Norway and Sweden offered the 5G rates in the fall of 2020. Iceland could have done so in 2021 if the government groups hadn't gotten involved with themselves with our telecommunications. Instead, we'll be two years behind the Norwegians and Sweden into the 5G-video country. Mr. President. It was supposed to be on easy notes, sorry, but I mention it because it is so crying that the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, either the first or the second, is involved in communication, such as so many others have the internal interest of the members of the party rather than the public interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u96	President. We will discuss a very large subject when discussing the bill on the change in communication laws, telecommunications laws, and the laws on foreign business investments (communications services and communications networks). This is national security. This is a matter of public interest. This is one of these fundamental issues that are important, and I have long called for this talk to support national security and national security laws for the country. Now it is time for our 2016 national security policy to be reviewed. This is a fundamental matter that is closely linked to it. It has been discussed today with regard to the transport system of electricity, which is a natural high and big national security issue. For the past few weeks, we may have realized that. Two years ago, when bad weather broke over the North and East, and electrical transportation system was severed, it occurred at the first time for the first time that the main power transport system in the country, the ground line, failed. Until then, we had come to know that already, for example. The distribution system of Rarik or the Powerbus of the West yielded. But that's where there's been interference with the big system, the high-level system. To me, this is a matter of their own. This is national security. What we specifically discuss here is the functions of fiber optics and infrastructure under the telecommunications, the modern world's modern world, its networks, and the like. Then we are in the online security business, which, in fact, works across the shallows. And that's exactly what's happening to us these days and has been happening - that's perhaps the most serious thing today when we get to the level we're doing, but we've had a very bad example in recent years about the Internet security issues. Now I've been chairman of the NATO Council of Iceland for four years, and we who have been involved in that work have come to know because these three, four years have been the big case for the past few weeks or months, if I let go, with the permission of a president, what is called the English language called ◯cyber security, because it's just been a big case until the last few weeks or months when the Ukraine became so big. ◯Hybrid Warfare, so I put back in English, or a multivariate, and this and online security linked. Here, in itself, we are discussing it. This is a big case into the fourth industrial revolution, the 5G wintry. This is the real system on which everything else is based, 5G and what we're talking about, in the fourth industrial revolution. Almost two years ago, the members of the Independence Party offered a request for infrastructure and national security on a relatively large number of teams. The request was made in eight teams, and in one past, E-party, we requested that Prime Minister bring a report on the status of the community's infrastructure and its essential social infrastructures which have national security and how they would be guaranteed within Icelandic administrations from the responsibility and topic centres of Council and Icelandic legislation. The E team was asked if Iceland's major communications systems had been defined as national security, such as the land - phone system, the optics system, the Tetra system, the cell phone system, the data cables to abroad, the long wave, the RuV, and the FM broadcasts. At the beginning of this year, the report came from the highest level. The answer to most of the eight questions was answered by the prime minister, and in this discussion it can be very helpful to read the answers there. In response to the request, there is much talk of public interest, national security interest, which I have felt was lacking in a general debate at the conference hall, and we are far behind neighboring countries in that regard. I've called for a national security legislation that turns to these fundamental structures of society. For example, transportation, electrical transport systems, telecommunications, and the basic structures on which everything is built would be possible. Then we can talk about food security and other activities that are usually presented in the highest answers. Prime Minister on the report request. This is an excellent talk today and an interesting subject that was presented in a case. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir about the arrival of NATO on this matter. It's just great to get into the discussion and into work at the highest level. The Environment and Transport Committee that gets the case, even in the morning, that it's working there, that's this partnership between Milan, the Defense Office, on behalf of NATO and anyone else, on the management and maintenance of the fibre cables, the founding cables. It is the root cable that was used 30 years ago, which is the basis for this communication system we live in today's world. This case is about how we on behalf of Iceland defend the shallow wood this string is. This cable was used at the beginning of 1991, and it reminds me. NATO laid it down, but he was placed primarily to build the radar system on Mount Bolassar, Mount Gunnolfsvík, located at the Hornfjord and then on the Chefjordur Airport. This was to monitor the traffic around the country and then to the air traffic control. The string has played an enormous role, but since then it has been built on all this data and has been making tremendous progress for the land. It was a big step when the cord came. This has been shown in the matter of why. Today, members of Congress have five strings of eight that belong to Mila and then three that are covered by this agreement, the common agreement. This is a big deal. We don't have much time to go through it. It's a lot of stuff. But what I really want to be happy about here is that we are beginning to discuss these fundamental issues involved in these fundamental interests, the national security issues. We need to discuss this precisely regarding the transport systems of electricity and distribution systems, the security of these national interests. We need to discuss this on transportation. So I hope this is just the beginning of a good job on this and that more work will be done on these matters here in the coming years, in the coming years, because when you read an answer from the highest level. Prime Minister on a request - it's very interesting just to go through these 14 pages, a lot of subjects, and a lot of questions, how we are involved. You can do amazing things in this, but you can't do that in a short talk. But as I came into them, we really need to discuss national security policy. Things have changed in five years, since 2016 when she was approved here at the council. It is time for this five - year - old to pass before being reviewed. We really need to get on with it and go further into it. It is interesting to consider the initiative group after the December 2019, which actually started the discussion that is now because it was there, reminding me of about 500 suggestions. Many of them turn to basic national security questions. In fact, the campaign group in March 2020, which carried out these suggestions after the December 2019, e.g. A report that may not have been too much in the discussion. This is it. This report covers communications, network and information systems, financial systems, health services, law enforcement, equipment and emergency services, food, food and water, irrigation systems, energy systems, transportation systems, and the highest government. So it is easy to see how large and extensive this area is. Here on this legal arrangement, these issues have not been dealt with the same way we know, for example. correspondent in the North and almost all over Europe. There may be three, four countries in Europe that are in the same place as us and do not have national security laws that focus on basic interests where it is State to maintain function and to protect, which we are truly trying to do here. There has been a considerable discussion of the holding of Milan and foreign investment funds and the natural purchases. I believe our primary role here is to present laws that protect the interests of the Icelanders, who are involved in the public interest and then the National Security Department. That is really what we should be sure of and what we should be sure of in all these areas. I didn't mean to have this much further, it's just not time to go really deep into these things. I refer to this report and answer to the highest. Prime Minister in this matter of the report request less than two years ago. There's an interesting document in this discussion. There are many things to do. But I'd like to celebrate what has been done here, hopefully, that we're beginning a discussion on these fundamental issues involving our community and our security issues. We who participate in the international work of the Parliament are many, and as I set out in the NATO Council, I have often described it as a place where we Iceland are in a home on the land - a nomad of nomads who are familiar with these matters and who are serving abroad and who are engaged in such activities. But for me, it's been a little bubble when you get to know it, and so on. But we need to expand this world and expand this discussion because it is truly needed. And when we go into the fourth industrial revolution and the 5G industry and everything we've been looking for, we've got to make sure we're not too naive in the approach and we're going to spend our most serious interest in real law. I hope this is the first sign of that job. But I sure hope it will be much more detailed in so many areas. We're seeing this in this case, we're seeing this in the air travel laws that were put on the last winter, we're seeing this only in the discussion of electricity transport systems, that these are fundamental issues that are falling in here. But what the person here calls for is a national security law for Iceland to protect the nation's most important interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u97	A respectable president. Thank you. Friðbertsson To this brilliant speech, Trausti's Trausti, Traustitir, it was real and real. I agree with him that we can't be naive and naive in this. We must realize that these issues are developing at tremendous speeds and that there are threats to the national security of all nations, all countries, where Iceland is not excluded. We have to stay awake. I agree with that, after having been with a what. A senator of the NATO Committee, that these cases have actually been an Alpha and an Omega of the majority. There have been issues, such as the Ukraine language and the Russian natural behavior in certain fields, whether in the field of human rights or indignities, and the Internet discussion is very extensive and extensive because it has such an impact on our national security and is of importance. The last five to ten years have seen a fundamental change, much less between 15 and 20 years, in view of this. Information is becoming valuable today and the access to it. So I came to appreciate how much evil the government, and especially the secretary of transportation and countryside, now the Minister of the wood, was prepared for this discussion about Mila. This purchase is not about directly holding it, but first and last, in terms of how we protect the public interest and have a perspective on how we protect national security, both on national infrastructure but also on national security. I was surprised to learn that simple questions could not be answered as to how this had been done on the part of the National Security Council and the Ministry. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Would he have wanted to see the government take a different approach and show more initiative in this group, which, unfortunately, is often set aside by others, and all too often? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u98	Madam President. I have, since I started this council five years ago, called after a discussion on national security matters in general, that we protect national security by law and take good care of these huge interests. The world has changed quite quickly, I would give it three or four years at the NATO Council. It has become a fundamental change in these discussions over a period of time. I would have wanted to call much earlier on more detailed laws on these matters. I think it's a good step now, and hopefully it's just a first step. Then we will continue to build on these issues. That's basically what I wanted to say. I'm fine with this case. The Congress is coming together, and there's some pressure and all that. We can then discuss whether it could have been better settled in May when we finished our job here, or in June. It's been a situation. It's a very short time, I admit it. We're getting this on the environment and transport committee tomorrow, huge business. It's a short time, but the points we're taking now, in terms of telecommunications legislation, are relatively simple. But we have to do so much better in the big picture, and that's what I'm calling out for, and I think that's why. A senator agrees with me that we need to do better there and build a comprehensive set of laws on these matters that will protect us from the future because things are frightening, the things that are about to take care of all these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u99	A respectable president. Yeah, I'll agree with what. paritaprevir In this regard, the Njáll of Friðbertsson Fernumbert is the subject of trust. Of course, he has a degree of compassion for this sect, which he knows even better than most people in this chamber. He missed such matters better, especially in the light of rapid changes in recent years. It is understandable that he will defend the government he supports, but I understand that he is a little irritated that the government has not been done better. And maybe we don't expect much, we have a party here at the council that didn't vote for national security policy that was approved here in 2016. There's a group of green greens on the front of the government and they're about to represent the National Security Council. This may not be the top of the list of actions listed in that category, and this may be one of its manifestations. I also state that from the fact that the national security profile has been accepted here, nothing much more has happened than that there has been an arrow - some touching but no action and no action at all for us. Then again, I ask, " Where is this fine counsel of consultation, national security? ' There is a situation that should take much more advantage of the issues we are discussing here. Then the prime minister returned this fine report, which answers very many questions, but nothing is done with the report. I would have thought that when these answers arrived at the beginning of the year, we would be ready when this vast exchange of property was taken at Milli. What's going to happen to the infrastructure? That's supposed to be the answer already. How do we guarantee national security? It's supposed to be done by now. There's nothing done with this report, which is only submitted here, but the Ministry remains and the government is responsible for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u100	Madam President. The national security policy has been adopted in the spring of 2016, reminds me, and the person standing here at the council at the end of October 2016, has talked about this in many languages, beyond the reach of electronic energy, Internet security, transport, these infrastructures. I have just mentioned the northern nations, such as Sweden. Our neighbors have had such laws for decades, 30 to 50 years, where the highest government is being protected. Congress defends this fundamental interest by law. We've been a bit naive in our approach by not having a real law that's involved in these matters, such fundamental legislation. I mentioned it in my talk earlier that it has been five years since national security policy was introduced in the spring of 2016, it is six years in spring. I assume that this work will have to be accomplished and a new national security policy will be introduced next year. I understand that since then it was discussed here that legislation should appear in the coming year, from the highest level. Prime Minister, who looks at the entrances of the country. I hope there'll be a good entry into this which will be based on what will be presented in the report request and in the report at the highest level. Prime Minister. There are plenty of things - I want to reiterate it to you. Councilmen reading answers at the highest. Prime Minister in discussions about reporting requests and what is presented in the report - on which real law can be based, as a matter of principle. I don't believe anything but we're going to continue building a real law that's going to have such an enormously important thing going on.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u101	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for a good speech and a good answer. I can truly agree with the hope of what lies ahead. A senator here comes in good national security law, for there certainly is a time to think more about that than we have. We cannot, as we may be known in many things, just hope that when it comes to national security, it will come together. In recent years many of the interior parts of the world have been found to be in danger because of Internet security. That's how it goes, for example. reaches all communications in the country; emergency communications, broadcasts, radios, and radios, to a large extent, through fiber optics today, and therefore very dangerous if it does not work. It is even so that all kinds of things in the systems, the infrastructure we have today, are directed through our telecommunications network, through our beacon. There was talk of electronic security, internal wood, Internet security - counting. A senator would not be at risk when such infrastructure falls into foreign hands, that we lose the government and the possibility of maintaining the Internet security?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u102	Madam President. As I mentioned earlier, this is a matter of legislation, a powerful legislation to protect the interests of the Icelandic citizens and the country in the big movie. I don't think I'm the main thing in the business. However, it is the law, the legislation behind the work, the surveillance role, that it is being taken care of in this way that we will secure the national and national interests of the country. That's what I'm calling for with more powerful legislation, and hopefully we're taking such a step in many areas. Now we are discussing what is involved in communication and such things. I'm not sure if all of this had been owned by the State for the past 30 years, this founder-light guide, that this tremendous development had occurred in communication in Iceland, the innovation and everything that has happened over 30 years, which has brought us to the world's top in telecommunications year after year, on the arts that come from the outside of telecommunication. I don't think it would have been possible if the government had all the resources on it. Then I don't think that innovation would have been the same as not an investment in the system and that we wouldn't have built this powerful system. I'm just pointing it out. The key point in my conduct is that we here are loyal to national security legislation and guarantee it. Also, when I'm talking about telecommunications - now the time is getting shorter - for the fiber optics and the 5G suit, as mentioned earlier, that every transmitter with the 5G technology is a fiber optic. The transmissions are twice as tight as they have been in the other system, so the light guide is underneath everything. That's all of this we need to make sure of. But it's hard to complete this conversation in a matter of seconds at the Senate Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u103	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for good answers. I believe that we can work together to secure national security and establish good laws. I'm not sure these legislation are good enough and will discuss it afterwards. I wanted to talk about something like that. A senator mentioned, and that is how much we are actually connected. Living abroad, e.g. In the Valley of Silicon, U.S.A., it is worthy of mention, for example. No fiber optics can be obtained everywhere, even though it is the cradle of the technology revolution. We live in Iceland that there was an investment 30 years ago in making a circle around the country, and since then an investment has been made in linking the more widely distributed settlements of the country with fiber optics. In fact, it's all been done as long as it's been publicized. Now it's time to sell these infrastructures, sell these fiber optics to foreign investors. Investors think about something, and it's good. I'm asking why. A senator whether he is concerned that some of the more scattered settlements that are not already connected by at least these investors are not already connected because it is not practical. You might reason, " What if this were our system, all owned by an investment fund? ' Would be a lot of more scattered settlements such as Northeast standard, for example. connected to the rest of the distribution system, the rest of the road system by good roads?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u104	Madam President. I don't know where to start, but maybe it's basic to make it clear that it's not the Icelandic state that has financed all fiber - optics within the country in the last few years and decades. Iceland light-related, for example, where the more scattered settlements were lightfarmers, fiber - optic cables in the scattered areas, the state put money there, but perhaps half of the investment in the big picture. In addition, energy exchange and private support, such as in my region of the north, have been in the Eyavans - a huge early number of fiber - optic cables. It's a private firm called a link that went into it and connected the action to the countryside and the east all over the countryside. It's an amazing enterprise. It's done a tremendous amount of work for the area. The state as well as this fiber - optic ring, the founder's guide from 30 years ago when he was in use - on top of it has been made a huge deal of private growth and since Iceland's light - related. Maybe the biggest problem today is villages and smaller places, and we'll see to it that it's fixed. I'm not going to agree to a party who's going to make the most of this big investment, in the light guide, isn't going to do everything to get the most out of the investment. I think it's just an opportunity and that he's going to be making more extensive and wide around the country to make better use of his overall investment. Then we can discuss in a special discussion about world fiber optics, the three communications cables that are coming from outside, and what we could do if we were to make better use of the cables in the country, specific connections, and the injury would be better. There we would be in the fourth industrial revolution and the future, green energy, and powerful communication. That's why we need a real national security law against both these things and the whole thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u105	A respectable president. I consider this bill to be the highest. The scientific, industrial, and innovation minister is needed in view of the recent sale of the central network of national communications and its possible impacts on national security. So I'm going to use this opportunity to discuss just Milu's sales and property. The subjects involved are far more serious and deeper than perhaps at first glance. Let's first look at Milan's owners. Pills have 16% in the Shimans, but the Pistols are the old FL Group, many of us remember from the years before collapse. The pension fund has 62%, but even though the pension fund is the majority of the people, it seems that they simply play with their venture capitals and let them take over. That alone is a subject of research, for it is generally known that the Pirates have controlled this journey and that selling the Swiss infrastructure raises questions about how old - fashioned business blocks are once again making themselves valid in Icelandic business life and is emptying yet another valuable source of infrastructure. This is the same thing that happened before the 2008 collapse. In this context, it is also of interest to examine the price of the network of communications in Iceland. For this, the appropriate price is 78 billion. Whether it's the right price, I have no basis to evaluate it, but when I look forward to the interest of Arion's making banks this year, 88 billion, I feel that the movie that you see is a bit crooked, especially when it's also thought that Pistols, the other people who are selling Milla, are also big investors at Arion Bank. Either we're selling telecommunications too cheap or profit, and banks are abnormally high unless both are too low and the other is too high. And if we look at what is really happening in an Icelandic communications market, there are some facts. Let's go over what we know. We know that the phone is selling an important inside of Milu at 78 billion, and the investment fund is a buyer, but we don't know who Aridian's owners are. It's almost impossible to find. Thus, we do not know who are actually about to develop a basic system of communication in the land. We also know that together with the sale, there is a 20 - year contract between Milan and Shiman. The question that wakes up is, Why is there a sale just to rent it back? This was done on a large scale for the 2008 collapse of a bank society and at least one community in the United States. One other thing for a while broke on the brink of bankruptcy because of the exact agreements. Moreover, we do not know how this sale will in the long run affect the situation of Shiman and the consumers and become of them. No one knows how the Siman business will be after the sale either. We do know, however, that 80% of Milu's income came from Shimanium, and it is clear that Mitula's income is not enough to cover this 78 billion investment in Ardian. So it is fairly obvious that the customers of Shiman, the common people, will pay this investment to the top and more than that with a higher price for the ministry. It is also necessary to examine these sales in the context of other items that have happened on this market, such as the U.S.A. that vision and Nova sold recently an important entrance linked to the 5G building to Digital Colony. A report on February 11, 2021, by permission of the president, says: According to business sources, a so - called passive radio program of specimens and Novas has come to an end of some $13 billion (U.S.). At that time, the company is working to finance the purchase in part in the publishing of a bond of debt of up to eight billion dollars. Investment in the bonds has been presented with pension funds and other domestic investors in the past few weeks by the company adviser of Max's bank, which oversees the funding of the country. The vision and Nova will rent the inside back of the buyer. The talk was first reported by an announcement in October showing that the sale is worth about $6 billion but has not given up who is the buyer. The end of the deal can be expected to be permanently owned by the funds of the Digital Colly, which specializes in managing investments on various digital infrastructures, such as data plants, telecommunications, fiber optic systems, and other similar assets. According to another report of the 18th May business magazine, a vision of further sales of communications is headed for unreputed parties. It even says, by permission of the president: ▪ During a conversation with the trade newspaper, Heiðar Guðjónsson, director shows that there are three national and foreign peoples. The discussion is about the sale of so - called stuck - in - line bodies, such as fiber - optic cables, located in some 800 locations around the country. Then comes the big question: Are these investment funds connected with a good way of obtaining some form of Iceland's telecommunication? The answer is yes. Digital Colony and Ardian have worked closely together in purchases of telecommunications that extend to North America and Europe. Digital Colony and Ardian are also involved in the purchases of Zayo Group LLC. More interesting relationships and business relationships of these funds can also be looked up. Now both funds have made contracts for the purchase of important communicators in Iceland. Digital Colony of the Expo and Nova, which have a 20-year lease on the same wood sold, and Ardian of Shimann, which also contains a 20-year lease on the use of the same infrastructure that was sold. Big questions remain. What position do Icelandic consumers have in buying contacts at Iceland's most important communications infrastructures ensure 20 years of contracts with all Iceland's communications giants? What will be the competition? And does anyone believe that funds that work closely together in other markets begin to compete in little Iceland? Is a renowned business block in the shelter of minority property against the pension fund getting over an enormous amount of money selling these companies and sacrificing on the long - term interest of an entire nation for short - term profits? This should be a familiar business model for the collapse of the bank. How will these companies live up to their business when they have been emptied and locked up in a 20-year business relationship with an investment fund that no one really knows who's got? It remains that it is not natural to have as important a foundation as our communication system is in the hands of investors who use and benefit without regard for the long - term impact their actions can have on the population. We must wait for the government, the League of Nations, the pension fund, and the checker to start a public investigation of the business and stop them during the process. Right at the beginning of the council, I made a request for a special discussion on Milli's issues. Since it is uncertain, I, by permission of the president, will review the questions there. They were to be directed to the prime minister as she sits in the National Security Council, and this is indeed the security of the people at stake. The main questions I had intended to direct the minister are as follows: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. When was the prime minister, the government, and the National Security Council announced that sales on Iceland's foundation for communication were being made? 2. Has a minister, the government, or national security Council in any way objected to the plans of a small number of investors for sales that can have an enormously extensive and serious impact on national communication security? It might be considered that a warrant is found in Article 12. Laws on Business Investment of Foreign Citizens, No. 34/1191 to intervene? 3. The Contestant Guard is investigating the close cooperation between Arendian and Digital Colony, and they are sharing in achieving a superior position in the Icelandic telecommunications market. Do the government and the National Security Council know who is behind these two companies and whether they are in part or in all the same parties? 4. Pills of 16% in Milan are behind this sale. The Pillar Society, formerly FL Group, is well - known to the Icelanders as it played a major role in the damage caused by the nation, and the same group is also about to receive tens of millions of cash paid by Arion Bank. Do Ministers and Governments naturally think that such a small group as you can testify to this, in this way, can manipulate the nation's foundation, and has the government put some pressure on the pension fund of 62% in Milan to resist the sale in the name of national interest? 5. Don't you need to investigate stock exchanges, especially insides and related parties, with a letter in the Símanum in an agreement to sell to Milu, or perhaps it's been made? 6th It's not just a matter of short-term interest. Can the government guarantee that consumers will not have to pay higher prices for sales in Milan? 7. Has the government examined the effect of a 20 - year binding business agreement by Shiman of Milu? All of this needs to be taken into account. The bill on this subject says the following, by permission of the president: The secretary can bind foreign investment conditions in order to prevent them from threatening the security of the country, resisting a national rule, public security, etc., etc. 2 mg Later, it says: If there is a violation of the conditions established by the minister on the basis of 5 mg. a minister is permitted to make a decision on the part of a foreign investment that will come back to the current day's fines, after challenging the partner to correct matters. So I think there's a reason to do the highest. The Minister of Science, Industrial, and Neoplasms to determine whether she intends to use this authority to stop Milan's sales, at least Until we have examined the matter, the safety of consumers will be assured, and all these questions will be answered. I sincerely hope to the highest. A minister will take advantage of these increased sources, since there is much at stake.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u106	A respectable president. Yes, it is an enormous issue, even though the bill itself is the same as it is. It is obvious that the government has been taken a little over when it comes to these matters. I think this bill, though it's being tried to save what may be saved, is evidence that the government has not kept its eye on the ball when it comes to sales in Milli, and especially when it comes to national security. I allowed myself for some months ago to ask where the National Security Council had been regarding the sales in Milan because they've been in the car for a while, way in the second year, so it should not have been surprised that the sale was being prepared. I've been trying to find out when the National Security Council really dealt with this, and it seems to me that the National Security Council has not discussed this until these matters were in news and that we were inquiring about it. It is also quite clear from our meetings of presidents when we requested that a council be held off at the highest level. Prime Minister and then minister of foreign affairs were sorry for the presidents of Congress because there was no active council, no supervision of the European Commission, to review the matter. There was no way to answer simple, clear questions when it came to who owns the infrastructure, who will own the company. What if Land X -- I liked it anyway? paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson came in earlier - if the company owned any buying company, and this company is in the country of Y, which makes certain rules that this company will have to deliver all the information or listen for that state. It's not an opioid. These are realistic examples, just as they are said. These countries can be spoken of in no uncertain terms. We're talking about countries that do not necessarily respect democracy, for human rights. There are countries like China and countries like Russia. That is why it is not a coincidence, as was shown in a sermon. paritaprevir Nine of the Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson Friðbert before, at least. During the four years I spent at the NATO Committee with what it was. A senator was discussing these matters, how NATO State, Western democracy might conclude that these infrastructures are under the control of the existing states. Do they have to belong to the State? No, not necessarily. But there must be a clear rule. That's the perfect key. After we agreed on national security policy in 2016, I feel quite different - except for the left green, which did not approve. Still, they are to follow the course carefully, but there is not necessarily much confidence in it. But that's how it is, and I would have thought that the other classes, who have been sided with the fact that we're building up here a powerful Western defense team, would keep the government's leadership under control. But it's not necessarily the feeling that we're looking at the story, it's not just that the national security policy has been accepted 2016, it's not necessarily happening in these issues, despite the development of telecommunications, the access to information, block of information, and being valuables that an hostile state might want to cover. There was a big, big report published earlier this year, answers to important questions. It is, in fact, there. It is shown that there are few if there are any larger emergency and security systems in the country and in the world that are totally independent or independent of public communication systems. It is also noted that there has been a special warning that services are too dependent on one supply or manufacturer of equipment and that there is a need for special security due to a limited extent of communication systems. It was also shown that building supplying 5G-farnets is a special field of observation where hardware software or components allowing the president: ▪... may enable to open backdoors to illegal sources of data in the country - perhaps a state - ◯ and/or to control or control tools or networks. Whether this is possible or not there is an ever greater demand for a safety safety safety net, especially the parts that control systems or that are important and sensitive for other reasons. It's perfectly clear. This is shown in a report by the prime minister. Yet, our meetings on this subject could not be answered. Post-operative reaction, postoperative action, has been adjourned after the hall has failed to try to create some contract that will be supported by the council. This is not an acceptable procedure, and I would have just thought it wouldn't happen on duty, including... The Independence Party of the Government. But this is what is happening, neither the left green nor the forward party could answer anything or anything about the national security court in this whole process. It's been specifically spoken of national security, and I'm just going to discuss it, but I'd like to draw it up, too, because of the situation. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir, member of the United States, mentioned the sales of Shimans at the time, that it is important to me that the state and state should live under all the basics. I totally respect that point of view. I don't completely agree with them, but I understand them in certain areas. Selling Landing? No. For my part, no. But we have simply experience in the construction of fiber optics, the construction of communication systems that have led us to Iceland's environment, which has led us to the first place. OECD and others say that we are primarily among the nations when it comes to accessing people, companies, Internet use, etc. That's even. Because there have been investors, there have been investors in the construction of infrastructure. On the contrary, and I've pointed to it, we'll see that the state doesn't respond when it comes to e.g. Our transport system. It is simply because we have been here nine years with groups that have more and less responsibility and are to be responsible for building up the transport system but that have not been there. So, in each of these election's votes, we have a direct responsibility that we don't have a transport system that is available enough to support good domestics in Western Europe, Western companies, Western households, Southnes companies, Southnes companies, business in the Northlands. They're responsible for all of this. Then, at last, it is described as a devastating shock that it needs to be built up when it becomes a problem. But it's important that it's started. It's a little extra, but I think it's important that we look into this. Does this mean that we should not keep looking at the ball and set clear standards? No, if these infrastructures are in the hands of private people, especially if it's monopoly, and it's quite possible to ask ourselves, " Is it worse, state-running or private monopoly?'But if it's a company that runs a huge foundation tree and has been successful, as I said about Milu, Vision, and Vodafone, we must have a clear rule. We need to be careful that consumers have access to a powerful system, too, when it comes to pricing. So far, we've had some moderate prices. That's even. Because the Post and Communications Office, now a telecommunications agency, as well as the Contestation Commission, have played a role. So it's a little bit of a decrepit. What's not going on with all this sales, in my opinion, though we certainly need to look at how we'll fit our service for consumers to spend more time and less, the surveillance role is national security. That's what you don't see in all this. We can continue to talk about the politics, about the benefits of getting a private member to the table, the benefits of having the ◯pubic private partnership, for me to drop, by permission of the president. It's done well in many countries. We can see that, for example. directly and indirectly through the Halfground tunnel. We have seen it in many parts of the air cycle, in various countries, with good but bad results. It all depends on the environment, on the rule, and on a clear, transparent view of what we're getting through by getting private members to the table. So my comments and concerns about all of this are that the government does not have a focus on this important matter, which is classified as national security. And, yes, it's childish if we're not going to focus on those things. It's also childish on their part, on our part, that sort us on the right side, for those of us who are free trade, free market, open market, believe a little in the private enterprise, not asking questions. We're just supposed to clap and clap because, yes, that's 78 billion. We're supposed to shut up and shut up because it's so fucking money. This is such an important business. But we should turn this around and ask, because we believe that free and open business can withstand questions, endure critical questions affecting the interests of consumers, public interests, and national security. No one's supposed to get rough about it. I'm having trouble with the appearance of transport and rural government. I don't know what they're selling. Earlier in the year, we discussed the sale at the specimens and Vodafones on the infrastructures they sold. There were inactive infrastructures up to 14 billion at Vodafone. It was handled very well, and I simply kept up with all the discussions in the council committees and during the council that we were a little bit more ready. We also have the report from the prime minister. I thought the system, the whole control system, was kicking ass here. That's not so. Then comes a platoon minister on the News of the State Radio and says: "We're just selling inactive wood here, that's just what's going on. Everyone observing that Míla has more and more roles there is the size, 78 billion, so much so that special consultation with the Secret Bank is needed to know how this sale affects the crew of the Crown. So the approach of the government was that it didn't matter. It'd just be great to have this business. And I agree with it, I like absoluth to agree with it. But we can ask questions, and then the regime and the job life must also be ready for a discussion, because we should have learned it, the enemy. We should have learned from experience that these things must be clear. I say, let me borrow anyone who wants to. So we, as supporters of a private, supportees of open markets, are to ask questions and not to be afraid to do so. We're also supposed to ask about national security, and I'm happy if we're going to go focus more on it now. But then I also want the government to take the initiative. National Security Council, consultation, yes, but those there are not just supposed to share information, they are supposed to ask questions. Why did the secretary of transportation and local government not introduce the matter, the significance for the nation, until after we had asked about it, until sometime in November? Then the National Security Council began to deal with this. What kind of handbacking and lack of ambition is this? A respectable president. To me, it takes way too little time to discuss this. It's a huge case, and I know that an environmental and transport committee has done well for the winter in reviewing the situation, making it better. This is a case in which the government itself had a lawsuit against itself and itss, the case was stopped by itself. It was now the whole priority for the left-green and the other categories. This case was the last time we were stopped by the government groups. [[The president calls.]] What is the ambition of national security? But I know, and I'm convinced that the Environment and Transport Committee will do everything she can to improve this situation and will further increase the discussion of this important matter group.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u107	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir A Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter for the speech. It's so fun to listen to what's happened. A senator who burns this stuff and lives into it. I can agree with many points presented in her talk. I think we share a vision of the importance of open and free markets and foreign investments in this country and I agree with that, we're supposed to ask questions. That's what we're here for. I was one of those who called for a report by the prime minister who has been referred to in this discussion, and I think it's a good report, and we need to use it more. In fact, it is not that long since it was born, and legislation, including those, has since been offered. A law that I've also called for here in speeches, and we've been discussing, to form a mental picture. The Foreign Affairs Committee, that we need to review internalinvestures. It does not necessarily matter whether they are foreign or domestic. When we're talking about some important wood, which, of course, can be owned by a private person, it needs to be considered national security. I couldn't agree more. A senator on this matter. Hv. A senator introduced a National Security Council that I have considered to be a very important site. Actually, I don't have a place in the National Security Council, but I'm asking you why. A senator whether he is a member of the National Security Council is the wrong thing to remember. At the same time, I would like to ask her what she said in her speech, that she had felt that she had been misinformed about national security. In case of a moment. A senator could consider only what she means by doing so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u108	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The secret to Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir. I know we share a vision in these matters, but the rest of the conversation we've had over the years about these matters. I know she's very interested in competition but also national security as such. Now this government has been sitting for four years. There has been nothing since the national security policy was accepted, apart from the fact that this important report was submitted, and there are very important points to be made. I, like all reveries, voted for that report, but it's not customary for us to vote against the request, even though other categories may have recorded it. But we also felt that, despite the format, it was important to bring out these factors exactly. The report presents a very strong and important reason to ensure national security, so that good and good, God will do good if the government is now going to do this just to get it done. However, experience from the last terms of national security covenants, and now something about national security in a government contract, something should continue, may not necessarily be good. There's a little credible question with the government, whether it really wants to live by what is in the government covenant. No, I don't sit in the National Security Council. There's only one agent from the government position, and I'm not the deputy. I would also especially like to highlight what other nations are doing, whether it is the United States, Britain, Germany, the European Union. Everyone is trying to map this environment and have already established national security legislation, the interests involved, map out what this has to do with other countries other than your own, which may be able to control the important infrastructure.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u109	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. However, I don't think she came up with what she meant with national security surveillance. She may be able to cross it in a second answer. But me and what. A senator would sit together on the Foreign Affairs Committee, and if I don't forget, he'll sit still. A senator goes on there, right? So, I just want to give you some cheers. A senator and other members of the Foreign Affairs Committee - I see here at a time. paritaprevir The Njáll Trausti of Friðbertsson Fernubert - that is, continue to discuss national security there. We had some good conversations and called on national security during the last term, and I think it's very important that we do so here at the council committees and the Congressroom. We have also had excellent discussions here at the Congress Hall on National Security. Of course, national security can be viewed in a broad sense. The Internet security issues are one thing that we too have discussed and need to do better. Then there's the telecommunications Act here being made. As we have considered, we had an overexhaustible bill about the change in communication, and we discussed it in the Foreign Affairs Committee, two articles that were especially related to us, and we gave reviews of it during the last term. I have high expectations for that matter to end. But that is, by nature, complex, and I think that includes all members of Congress who have come to that matter and have tried to read themselves through it. It's a great book of law, but it's still important. I hope so. A senator can go over the checkpoint and then I'd like to encourage him. A senator as well as other members of the council inside that we follow through on this. We should ask these questions. I'll just agree with that. National security is important. We need to discuss this both on the Foreign Affairs Committee and here at the Senate Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u110	A respectable president. I agree with what was presented, and I share my opinion with each other. Senator. With regard to national security, I would point out that at the time of the distribution of the distribution system, it was specifically stated by the then government that it should be in Iceland. That was even. to ensure specific infrastructure, that's only a precaution. You know, first you're going out there, you'd think there's something you'd be doing, someone'd already been looking at it. More than a year ago, news on this potential sale was being made. Fine. Then something's supposed to start out at the Ministry, at the Department of Transport and Division, now the Department of Internal Affairs. It hasn't happened. I believe it would have been necessary to get very close to what this means. What does active infrastructure mean? What does it mean to have this IP network, terminal stations, and more inside this package? What does that mean for national security? Where was that mapping? I asked them at a meeting of presidents, and they said nothing more than, "We're looking. We're trying to make a deal, and we're going to try to make sure we're okay afterwards. It's fine, but it's just after it's done. We are to work overtime if we are to be active in our own national security. I want to reiterate that while we are short-term, we will do everything we can to ensure national security, to secure these associates we are doing here and to carry out our work on an environmental and transport committee in this way and here at the council. But I have to remember that I feel that it is an ambitious attitude on the part of government leaders that this has been true and that the indecision is crying.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u111	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for a good talk, experience and power, and it's just good to know and hear her opinion. I have a feeling that we're both inspired by our presence within the NATO council for the last few years on these matters. We're getting more insight into these matters than any members in general have received here at the council by sharing in the powerful work being carried out in the NATO Council, which has been doing over the last few years. It's kind of the key. The pale factor problem, it's communication, and it's electrical energy. We've learned this and talked a lot about it. This is actually the first step in warfare today. It's the multi-item threat, going against the telecommunications and electricity. I've heard from what. A senator in these last days, and now today, the last thing about the electrical system. All I wanted to do was enter the national security empire in general because you are so rarely given the opportunity to discuss it. We rarely discuss these matters. So we learned exactly two years ago in bad weather, as I came into my speech earlier, in the north of the country where there was simply a lack of electricity just for days. Hv. In recent years, a senator has established the problem of developing and building electrical transport systems. Now, however, the projections are starting to land, the Crooking Line 3 has come from the River Valley Station in Krifita, so we're working on Holasanndian Line, it's going to be tense the next summer, it's Krts to Akureyri, and then we're talking about the Southnes line, and then it's the Westernes. Like what? A senator entered the worst in the South, West, and Northern countries. Now I've spoken of national security laws to protect these things. What do you think? The senator of a system plan to the age of ten, a three-year projection plan, then you're suspense and late ones, you don't have to, what steps are we going to take on the next national security business, face the power system, and the big system? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u112	A respectable president. It's a really bad question, and I think it's the best thing to say: It's the interaction of many factors. Yeah, that might be a boring answer, but it is. On the other hand, it is clear that we are not going to need a storm, we need natural disasters for the execution of power, so that the ministry and the institutions will awaken in order to meet the needs of people and companies. Except for what it was. A senator knows much better than anyone else, e.g. Just the Eyjafjörður's call to build a very powerful job life, full of companies who normally want to go north but can't because they don't get electricity. Something's wrong in such a situation. There are amazing areas of growth in Western Europe, for the development of employment, for the variety of employment life, and they can't because it's just closed, says the system. The setting, including We in this room have agreed, we don't have the space, but electricity is there. Electric energy is in place when this is due. We most likely need to be activated for a short and long time to build up all the infrastructure, go into the energy exchange, and go to build an even greater variety of jobs all over the country. But we simply need to, and it won't stand on us when it comes to this, we realize completely that this is going to work together: security for the home and a variety of activities. It is a key to building up the electrical energy system so that rural society has a real self - analysis of how they want to build up in their territory but does not have to depend on whether the host, transport system, can do it or not. That is not acceptable in 2021.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u113	Madam President. What I may have been calling for in this case is that we've been working after a 10-year system plan and a three-year strategy, that's what has been done in the past few years, and we'll see it in Eyana. These are 1,5520 years where little is done, little can be done on these projects, they're just late, and they're wanted forever, and nothing's gone. Maybe this is what we know. I've got a case on Southnes Line 2, all the trouble going around it. It's amazing how all of this is. I'm kind of calling for a senator's opinion of this, so it's been a little bit of a roundabout that goes on forever. It has been defined, and there is money that can't be used for years, as with the Landsnet on system structure, but it finally worked. It had started with the Cruces line two, three years ago, and it was tense at the end of August. The procedure at Holasands line should run out the next summer, and it will be a thrill set. Akureyri has been connected to the River Valley Station and the Cruces in a stronger way. But there's so much left. When we're talking about green futures and climate projects, they don't happen unless they're connected in some wise way. I'm kind of calling for it from what? Senator: Are we just going to put a law on this, as we're talking about Southnes Line 2? How far should we go when we wait for the energy to get it? That is the real question, for why? A senator has been criticizing the slow outcome, but we have arrived there. It has been called out for 15, 20 years and an endless circle. There have been changes, and this has only improved now, and the Landsnet has adopted a new system and has only dealt differently, but how far should we go? Why don't we set a law that I would have been on a number of projects when you've seen that sadness that has been connected to these issues for the past 10, 15, 20 years? [[The president calls.]] In case of a moment. A senator would answer that simple question. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u114	A respectable president. If I'm to step back and tell you what's the first step along the way and the solution that we look at this country as a whole, I'm just saying, "One man, one vote and the country's one vote." I just want to start with that. But that's not available right now, but it's part of a way to solve the situation. I've been drawing out a lot of times, e.g. You know, tweet forest, it's all been going around in the system for 15 years. It would never have worked in the system if the country had been one of the ideals. Everyone would have been responsible, and all the members of the country would also have had to be responsible that this project should have started earlier. What I want to say: Laws and laws on construction are always the last resort. We see only now in connection with the Commission's burdensome legislation, depravity, and we are naturally to talk about how bills have come from the government to mean, for example. Icelandic citizens come home, think of it. That's a very risky plan. That is why the system needs to be simplified, but it can take time. I'm willing to do everything I can to simplify the system. We need to have two things in mind, environmental views, green views, and even professional life, these two. Some people see this as a contrast, I don't. Our way in environmental restoration is to integrate the development of employment with green solutions. These two things go together in my opinion. Yeah, it's pathetic, and it's a shame we don't go through this any faster. But it's also systematic. It's also within the institutions, like a whale. A senator rightly said, Landsnet began to correct only his actions, and this began to be slightly less hated. [[The president calls.]] So it's inside the system, but you can do much better in this frame. We're supposed to focus on this, watch these things I've been able to do before, but for God's sake, no more than four years in quietness in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u115	Madam President. I was a little bit excited about the discussion here, and I couldn't see why, but I could see that suddenly we had had a problem. The head of the staff of Gamald's Haraldsdóttir and Njáll Friðbertsson during the discussion, the first and only officials who have expressed themselves in the council of the day. We've been meeting here since 3:00 today. For six hours, we've been talking about prime radios that are supposed to go up to committees, and I can't remember that they're the only representatives from all the board of directors - but how do they feel about these matters? What are the diggers thinking, e.g. the bill we're discussing here, written at the Ministry Department. The head of the advance party? I don't know, they didn't show up. How does left green feel about this case, which has voted against the personalization of Shiman in its time? I don't know, they haven't been here. Don't the people deserve to know what the parties think about the big issues we're discussing today? Madam President. [[The president calls.]] The political part grew too much in the last election and even after the election too, but where are all the people?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u116	President. I agree with what. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson. We're dealing with issues that are coming in very short notice and not having much time at the council. Therefore, it is vital that the matter of government participate in the brief discussions that we have otherwise on this matter. I understand that people also want to discuss the matter in committees, but they need to be discussed at the conference halls as well as on committees. So far, this has been the same and nothing has been discussed in the Senate Hall. In some ways, it is the rule of thumb that council members, with this increased section on various committees, have just decided to make a reference. No, we're just going to work on committees, behind closed doors where people generally don't hear what we're saying. So we just take care of it and stamp it out and say, "Okay, bye."
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u117	A respectable president. In many ways I would like to agree with what has been said here - nothing in many respects but in all respects - as soon as I mention that there is something characteristic that only one member of the board has participated in this discussion, and that is the Independence Party. The media, in fact, responsible for the preparation of this matter, fail to reveal themselves. The chairman of the National Security Council and Prime Minister - none of its classes, left green, has shown himself in this discussion. Indeed, national security made a huge difference. It's been discussed here by most members of Congress, that at last we have the opportunity to discuss these exact matters, to have a conversation about this core building, what this means to the public, what this means for national security, it matters. But the left green, and the advance party is giving you the money in this case today.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u118	Madam President. There has been much talk today about the electrical power system and national security. As a new member of the council, I was interested in seeing that, just a few months ago, there was a requirement that the electrical distribution system be directly owned by the government or by a community. But when it comes to talking about digital wood, we're doing exactly the other way around. It has also been said today that national security depends largely on national security. We no longer see the same danger that there are peaks coming against us. Rather, they use our digital infrastructure to influence us. It is also very important to realize that digital infrastructure differs from other structures in that it is easy to take everything that goes on them and to direct it elsewhere. It's not very easy, e.g. with our road system, letting everyone drive through the Faeroe Islands. But it's no problem taking all Iceland's net fish and sending it somewhere else, and nothing is necessarily needed, as the law says, for such a risk to exist. You see, when a foreign person acquires this digital tree, he or she may have to obey the instructions of the land where the owner operates. What would happen if DGSI, a French government intelligence agency, were to make a decision, just as the Danish secret agency did on behalf of the United States of 2012 ◯2014 and was revealed earlier this year? However, we may look at this in view of the fact that a hostile country is involved. I ask myself, " What would my reaction be if it wasn't? ' But who really is a hostile nation if our cousins, Danir, were prepared to spy out government officials of Iceland and other European countries? So I think it's important, when it's important. The Environment and Transport Committee examines these issues, that they get to people with technical knowledge about whether what is mentioned on the bill is sufficient to ensure the digital independence of Iceland for the future. It is without question that within the country we can have a secure communications without someone else listening to everything we say.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u119	President. It's a very interesting bill. It's quite remarkable that as soon as some foreign person comes and buys himself into the infrastructure of communication, there's so much national security problem. The problem was natural in the past. Foreigners can cause problems when it comes to national security. I find it particularly interesting what is involved in changing the law about foreign investments in business at chapter 3 of this bill. These are like other laws, originally from 1991, but I don't know how appropriate they are anymore because, of course, these safety issues are to be clear, whether it is foreign or domestic, after all. The safety point must be just as important. What I find interesting about looking at the bill from a bigger point of view is that we do not have a comparable arrangement for possession in our infrastructure. We have relatively just made some changes in the postal law where we certainly have private property, private clients can do postal services. However, there is a possibility that the official could define the services services to those areas where it is not considered to be pre-circuits. It is similar with energy transport. Although we have one member, a Landsnet, who cares for them, it is also about energy production. It can be set up on an alminister to have the energy go to where it is lacking. On the roadside, we have largely a public property, but there are also some tasks that are put together...
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u120	Teamwork.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u121	Teamwork, right, teamwork, PPP. It's not that common, but it's there, and it can work. It worked just fine for the Halfground tunnel and for bigger projects. There are reports on when such projects are profitable for both the private and the public, not just either or the public. In general, projects on the roads are more profitable, the more practical for the public because they are revealed by the project than in larger projects can be exploited by both private and public organisations, which are the hurrying of a profit - making investment that will divide them at some time to all parties, also natural to consumers in the end of the world. Here we have this infrastructure, communications, where we have a share of their communications on public property, owned by a local partner, Reykjavík's Central Office, and otherwise owned by a private person. I find it interesting that this is not a more consistent rule in some way, that when we are dealing with something that we would classify as base wood, it is not just possible to walk directly to a certain order and arrangement of such infrastructure. Perhaps it could refer to how shortsighted we are, in fact, in establishing greater and greater legislation on this bill, in which national security was never a problem until a foreign party buys in the social service, the basis for communication. Clearly, this problem existed before that. In Comb 4. The law is interesting to b-aide. It says that after 5 mg. Enter a new paragraph, as follows: Because of the role of a national and national security network, the Agency is permitted to demand information about owners, chain owners and those who actually have voting rights, executives, executives, executives, monitoring and management systems within a communications company.◯ I thought they were supposed to be laws already on chain responsibility and such, but it may not apply as accurately here, and it has to somehow double it or something like that. But, of course, such information is generally meant to apply to all companies working in Iceland. A clear view of the real owners is a key to deciding who they want to shop for. Will it trade with companies or companies that are known to have a social security number? No, I'm gonna pick someone else. There are two people who offer to do my job, and I'd rather pick someone who's not known for having a social security number, and I'm just gonna leave everything here when it's over, or something like that. I think it's an interesting article that comes in there. Maybe it's a double operation. Perhaps it is merely repeating some source that should apply everywhere at all times. But then I'll come back to this frame, the foundation of legislation in Iceland, which seems to be really fun, not absolutely complete. True, there is no way to walk in any way when it comes to Icelandic law, for you even find some other arrangement when coming to the next law section, e.g. .................................................. We've set up the mail program, there's only a different energy transport arrangement, and then there's the third. We don't have to commit national security to e.g.? Is that a measure of depression? This is interesting. There's one thing I'm wondering about. I cannot find enough details in this bill, which has been brought to attention earlier during the discussions, because there is a regulations that a remote agency can make various demands, whether it is possible to require that a device from a particular manufacturer is simply not available. It's just, it's now, like, this device, all the equipment provided by a specific manufacturer, is now considered uncertain. Period. I'm not sure that it can be done under these laws. That's not very accurate, like so many other things. So I don't know if it could somehow be interpreted from these different articles that come here in Article 1. that a telecommunication agency and then a minister could state that the equipment of a particular manufacturer is simply unusable, just one, two, and three. It's like this in 5 mg. 1st par. which states that a remote network can request a communication agency to carry out a specific assessment of the unique network and network systems of communications networks. This is a little vague, since it is spoken specifically of in 2kret. that in the Regulation it can be stated that communication networks which are considered important for public and national security and that the effectiveness of communication networks should be established in Icelandic jurisdiction. It's just that this brand is not something that it's not acceptable, just that it's located in Icelandic jurisdiction. At any rate, it is not the thing that would give you permission to do so. However, whether the specific risk assessment or the conditions of a particular risk assessment could simply classify certain types of equipment as a risk, dot - that is unclear at all. Finally, that's 6. in which these laws also apply to foreign investments that took place prior to their execution if a Minister's deadline to stop them is granted. the law on the investment of foreign people in government business has not expired at the release of these laws in the Control Department of A. I don't know if this works. It is this principle that if it actually reduces someone's rights, it must not be restored, and a fixed purchase has definitely been made. A minister still has permission to say no, but if these laws had been valid before buying, their terms might have been quite different. In a sense, this affects the buyer's rights. Then I don't know if 6. Resists the principle of legal recovery. There is something that the committee needs to consider seriously, for we are naturally examined by recent examples of the restoration laws made by the State. If this did not work out, there would be a law that would work on those purchases over again. Who knows how that would affect them? Just so that the companies don't see a game to say: Here's something we're not interested in and we're breaking our rights no matter what, so we're going to look for our rights in this regard. I don't know on what grounds they would refer to any damage or anything about a corpse. I can't think of anything, but I'm sure there's some smarter people than me in thinking that way. But I'm still worried that there's an example of law recovery, and I think we need to consider a huge deal whether there's some stunt on this bill. But because it's a short time, I'm not really hoping that there's going to be anything too good about it or that there's a lot of debates about it, you know, get time to come. So I can't help but encourage them. Environmental and transport committees to support the work being implemented by the Committee. There is no envy in this assignment, and thanks to the government is the least.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u122	A respectable president. I couldn't help but get involved in this discussion a little bit more because I just think it's a really fun job for that. Environmental and transport committees to discuss, it's exciting. I'd like to mention, however, that in these matters I think it would be clear what would be good to have an arrangement that many people know from the Word Thinking and that is called in English at ◯track changes, change history, because here we have a bill for a change of three layers, and to see the bigger picture, we need to read it a little together. [[The story of change.]] So I think it's also important that someone be out there and just read this bill and think it's the whole law about telecommunications and selling telecommunications, but it's not right because we have a lot of legal columns going on today. But these are changes I have no doubt about being important. A respectable president. I had become so furious earlier that we were discussing national security issues that I burn for and Internet security, and I was making notes on all kinds of things, but then I realized that this wasn't really about it, but I'm going to let me run over it just because I think it's important that we take this conversation. I felt that I was doing quite well in a conversation I had earlier. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir is that it is not so important that these infrastructures belong to private people who are not even registered in Iceland. What matters is that the line of laws is clear. In this context, we heard e.g. A recent discussion of U.S. Army wire shut-up in Danish telecommunications. I don't think holding there was anything important, unless it's not. We've heard stories of threats about investments in telecommunications in the Faeroe Islands. So I think it's so important to take it out that we're dealing with regulations and my vision, whatever it is that our rule is in order. Each part of the wood should not be divided into a key if the work is in order and the ordering procedure should be monitored. We were discussing national security earlier, and it seems to each one of us, and some would say that nothing has been done here since national security policy was approved. I can quite agree that I would have liked to see even more happening but I don't think it's fair criticism to say that there's nothing here for four years. When I started to scratch my own business, I recall that in the Foreign Affairs Committee we were given information on the Bjarnason report where Björn Bjarnason was assigned on behalf of the Norwegian Foreign Ministers to cross the Arctic partnership in the area of state and security where there was specifically talk about climate issues, multi-items, and Internet security. There's been a national security hearing and a multi-item debate here. The security and defense agencies now have a special head on the multi-factory threat of taking it more seriously. And then the other thing, which I think was also important because ever since I started asking about these matters, especially Internet security, after I entered the council, it was a bit complicated what that seminar group was all over the board. Here we have a minister of science, industrial and innovation responsible for Internet security and I don't know, maybe we can honestly call it the Internet minister, I think it matters too. And these political or administrative changes that we are about to discuss, hopefully tomorrow, turn exactly. To this end, that the streamline of these things and that the responsibility is clearer. So I'd like to celebrate, too, and I'd like to say that there's one part in improving extra security and the communication that this bill really is about. I think this may be the first step out of many that we need to take. We live in a changing world, and this is exactly the case that's changing and I think if anyone ever thought that we could accept national security policy, put it on national security advice, and it's dead, then it's not. This is what governments and national conventions all around us are about, and of course we need to do the same. So I think that while we're looking forward to a change, and of course I can say that I'd wanted to see it come sooner, I can totally agree with the criticism and only natural that we'd wanted to do more time to do this, we can't forget that much has been done, and there's no way we can talk about it all about it, and here is no law or anywhere else. How true that has been! But this is where we're going to do even better, and I'm gonna say it again. The Environment and Transport Committee to oversee this and the same as in the review of total communication laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u123	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for a good speech, and I think we agree on a lot of things there, especially when it comes to national security and our digital independence. But I just want to talk about another thing that's not national security except to some extent, i.e. that the distribution systems that are there, specific bases in the nation's service and fiber optics, are, as indicated by the Government's declaration of policy, in some respects, a high prerequisite for the widespreads of Iceland and the ability to drive innovation and other things. I ask myself something about it when I see all this investment funds being buying wood, whether it's active or inactive, because after working closely on these investment funds, I know that they have certain goals to make money, while the State's goals are perhaps getting Internet and optics all over the country. Then I'll ask why. A senator whether he believes that making investment funds is building these structures could make the country's digital future more expensive and difficult when it comes to the structure and maintenance of money, rather than according to local policy and the State's policy on these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-13-9.u124	Madam President. Thank you. The answer to that question is, I think digital independence is very good. Hv. One senator asks if I am concerned that a digital future could be more expensive by investing investments in these infrastructures. No, I can't say that I'm really worried about that, but there is, of course, one of the factors involved in such a rule. As far as I can see, fiber optics have become as important as other plants as we have seen a very large development in fiber - optic services, such as. we're scattered because we went on a campaign project and gave money to it, government money, to secure the link between scattered and the fiber - optic network, which is, of course, an enormously important structure, and to promote innovation and sector development in the rural areas. In fact, it has meant that some more densely populated areas have not enjoyed the services of fiber - optic cables. There's something I've been told about when you're traveling around the country, that you have to go up to the country to download Netflix movies, which, in fact, can be very positive, at least have positive manifestations. But I think it is one of these things, that it is expensive to make this wood through our land, because the settlement is very scattered and far between places. I think it's so important that it can even be possible, I'm not going to say it, that strong people, who have enough money and access to knowledge and technology, will come and help us even do things more quickly and also ensure maintenance of infrastructure. I think that's going to mean a lot to the future, because we Icelanders sometimes tend to keep up with tasks that are very important, but they also need to be maintained. Our electrical system is a very good example of this.
