ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u1	I'll tell you what. General members and members of the General Assembly at the beginning of the spring after the Passover break ended in meeting with members of Easter and volcanic eruptions and so on. At a meeting of the presidents of Parliaments this weekend and earlier today an agreement on the Council of Congress was set up for the next few weeks at least, which is going to be the beginning of a meeting according to a plan of action. 13 every day. Committee meetings are held before noon on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Thursdays, as well as on council meetings, before noon on Mondays and Wednesdays. This is actually a continuation of the previous agreement from January 29, which was in force in experimentally until Easter break and was successful but is now adapted to the spring work programme. I would like to give special thanks to the heads of Congress for your cooperation on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u2	Borist has a letter from what? Tenth. That's the north side. " Friðbjörg Flandish the daughter of Elíasdóttir, that she will be absent in the near future. So today, at General 1st, a deputy of the Union's Arts in the Northeast District, María Hjálmarsdóttir. She has previously taken her place at the General Assembly, and she is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u3	Borist has received a letter from the following sendees requesting every time to provide written answers to queries: From the health minister for the requested application. 1007, of the contracts for research on biographies abroad, from Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son. From secretary of state and development for petitioning. 937, on the part of Europe's Space Institute, from the Goddess of the Brjánsson Brennson, and on the icicle. 979, on registration of communications in the Ministry, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. Finally, from the Ministry of Education and Culture for the Säpon. 1020, on the basis of the impact and grounds of the appeal of the violations of equality, from the mighty Lord Gunnlaugsdóttir of Gunntilóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u4	To answer, Prime Minister, Transport and Regional Minister, Health Minister, Environment and Resource Minister, and Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u5	Mr. President. Ministers refuse to recognize the reality when they constantly cite averages of increased means of making people's money to justify the situation. This provides a distorted picture of today's problems in which 25,000 people are dealing with unemployment. For the most part, they are young people and people on low incomes. This deliberate reversal of reality is then repeated in a financial program. However, the financial adviser points out in his comments the risk of reading too much of the averages, with permission of the president: ▪ Some of the effects of the contractions are affected in most homes, such as increasing prices, but unemployment affects only those affected. In a financial programme, a detailed discussion on the status of the households, based on average figures, is provided. Even so, averages say little when they are large. The World Bank also calls attention to the nature of this crisis and encourages a state to establish special partnerships in which well - off companies and wealthy people, who actually profit from the crown crisis, temporarily add more to the relief efforts of those who are the most affected by the crown crisis and to reduce the increase in balance. Some form of solidarity would lead not only to contribute to a sense of responsibility during difficult times but also to a good economic government. Government support is one of the least in Iceland in international comparison. So we have the ball volume to do better, but we don't have much time. An action like this should fit in with groups that want to fight inequities, and therefore I ask the highest. Prime Minister whether she likes these suggestions from the World Bank. And if so, whether it intends to engage in any such action or whether it might consider it politically impossible in the present government.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u6	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for setting up a few issues on the program; first, the job of jobseekers; secondly, the government and the World Bank of Pays on them and third, the ideas of the greatest economicist of the World Bank. If I start my job in unemployment, I'll make a comment when it comes to averages as a deliberate blunder of reality. Of course not. Of course, no one is minimizing the enormous problem of long - term noncooperative work. That is why the government has just attacked that area. It is interesting to consider now what new jobs are available, since 1,583 new jobs were published in the labour service of the European Commission in March and 88% are available because of government operations, the efforts we have made to reduce the number of unemployment jobs that have been unemployed for more than 12 months, and have restored them to the labour market. This tells us that government action is important. I'd also like to promote it here, due to the news of the World Bank on the actions of the Icelandic government, that for the first time, the State's expenditures are not a practical measure of anything or anything unless they are associated with the results of that operation. But we've made a comment on this assessment of the World Bank and they have not included in the account investment initiatives, scholarships to study tools, extra unemployment improvements, scholarships to research and development, etc., so this standard of the World Bank seems to be based on a very narrow framework, which, unfortunately, is all too common for making investments, and we had a good deal of business discussions about financial plans. Hv. A senator then asks about the idea of taxing on those who have actually profited from the crisis, and that is something I think we need to examine over a longer period of time, i.e. To determine in the first place who has benefited from this situation. [[The president calls.]] Then, of course, it is normal for me to review the potential sources of income.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u7	Mr. President. In fact, financial advisers pointed out that under current circumstances, people in this strange crisis have very poor weight loads. It's not unusual for me to call it a glow of reality when it's the highest. A financial minister picks up the interviews and talks about the rise in the provision of homes as if it were something that describes the general social situation. I'm sorry. It just doesn't. There's too many people who have that shit. I'm interested to hear that a comment has been sent to the World Bank and I'm excited for answers. But there are some things that are the highest. The prime minister set out, such as the investment campaign that has not even been followed to the same extent it was scheduled to take place and that it would take longer to start projects when it was known that it would be possible to go directly and strengthen the rural communities to take action on a project that was ready.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u8	Mr. President. Yes, it was made up because it is important that these numbers be comparable between countries. But as I came to this point, the cost of action is just one measure. We too need to look at results. In the United Kingdom, approximately 15% of GDP has been implemented to respond to Covid. The contraction there's less than 10%. Besides the lack of the joints I listed earlier, we also have a very powerful automotive regulator that has truly worked, so when we consider government operations, except counter measures total about 190 billion years. between 2020 and 2021. The effect of the automotive equations is about 205 billion times. during the period. This is far more than expected in this comparison. The big issue, however, is the result, and it shows that the contractions are less than predicted by government action.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u9	A respectable president. In accordance with local regulations. The health minister is now paying the state cost of hotels and food for all who accept an invitation to go to a cartel for five days in isolation. Why does the government agree to pay for foreign tourists who come, e.g. to see a volcano on Smokeynes? Tells you the highest. Isn't the Minister of Health to have tourists pay themselves for these five - day tracts at a hotel, as our neighbors do, and that for about twice as many days as we do? And yet again: There have now been problems with the side effects of AstraZeneca and Janssen which cause blood clots, especially in women. Is it not time for those with underlying diseases to choose a vaccine themselves or to continue the strange stubbornness of even forcing people to receive a vaccine that they do not want? There is also a question about the decision to fine against health Ministers' rules, in the field of infection, insulation and exposure to Covid-19. According to Article 3, when a violation of an obligation to be under siege is at hand. and 1st. 4. g., determined by severity, may range from 50,000 to 250,000. This amount is the weekly to monthly payment of the Social Security Prize and goes far up to monthly pay for low-payers. But this is only a day's or a week's pay for the highest remuneration. If a fine is to scare people away from violating regulations, why is it not linked? Should not all be equal in terms of law and financial punishment? It is simply saying to people: " If you make enough money, you can commit a crime and pay the fine. But the others don't have the chance. They may lose their monthly salary while they are better off losing perhaps a day or a week.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u10	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's questions. First, in terms of reimbursement and evaluation in a district hotel, the decision was made to drop from the currency to encourage people to make more use of this option. We believe, from experience, that there is a greater chance that we could keep up with the possibility that people would break the contingency if they were on a district, and that's why we took it in the wrong direction. Hv. A candidate secondly asks about certain side effects of AstraZeneca vaccine and whether these side effects should lead to changing the application of this vaccine in order to select a vaccine. We've talked about this before, me and what. Senator. There are natural contraindications, there are some populations that are not considered advisable to take AstraZeneca. No one will be forced or forced because there was a word. A senator, to use one vaccine rather than another. However, it is so that if people do not choose the vaccine that they have available in the order selected by a disease - control doctor, they will be placed back in the order of divorce. Hv. A senator then asks about fines, and hopefully I'll find out here in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u11	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. Still, I must have a heartfelt disagreement with her about those who fear and suffer from underlying diseases, especially because we set a set age limit. I understand you will receive 55 years and younger - and it has also been shown that the Janssen vaccine is associated with a risk of blood clots. I ask, "Why in the hell are you going to punish people by putting them in the back of the line? " If people are afraid, why not just meet them? Then there is another question: When should you complete your vaccination for those with underlying diseases? I know about people who have underlying diseases and have been locked up. Why are these people not put first? Why is it that these people have not been given a vaccine first and second, allowing it to be selected? It can't be that hard. There are plenty of other people who are willing to receive a vaccine if others wish to switch.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u12	A respectable president. The precise procedure is now to review contraindications for these vaccines to make sure that these groups are not being vaccinated where there are a higher risk of adverse reactions with certain agents. It's over. Hv. A senator specifically asks about people with underlying diseases. Vaccinations in these groups will start this week and will only be started. We're 70 years old and older. This week will be a large vaccination week, with at least 8,000 people will be vaccinated tomorrow and only with Pfizer, so tomorrow will probably be the largest day of vaccination from the start. But for the next question, it is easy to reason. The senator's fines and certain revenues of the fines, it may be a much larger debate that has to do with the community's fines, I'm contented to form fines for traffic violations.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u13	A respectable president. On this occasion, I want a direct inquiry to the highest level. Minister of Justice on the legal grounds of the Supreme Court. A minister of health who was convicted illegally in the federal court last week, as everyone knows. There's a lot more strange in this case, and even more strangely, it became when you read the Morning newspaper this morning, where a legal opinion was made for the highest level. The Minister of Justice and the recent April 3, which seems to have been the most intelligent form in times of trial. It leaves open questions about how this matter has been fully agreed on by the government before the Regulation is given. It's at the top. Minister of Justice to be so? And if so, what led to the ultimate success. The Minister of Justice has this opinion carried out, dated April 3, last April? Was it the doubts that was not then expressed at the government meeting or something else that caused this memo to be won, or this legal opinion? The other thing I'd like to ask the highest. To see if the minister could explain why this legal opinion was not included in the data given to the health committee here a few days ago by the Minister of Health, in which understanding was made by the Committee of the Committee, I allow me to state, that all the data that would have been revealed in this Regulation. Then it floats on the pages of the Morning Press a few days later. Knows how to do it. A minister's explanation for this for us?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u14	A respectable president. First about the last question why. A senator, why this was not part of the magazines. A welfare committee obtained, my understanding that the documents available at a government meeting had been requested, but my memo wasn't there. It is not the role of the Ministry of Justice in particular to examine the recovery of regulations from other advisers. But questions arose after the government meeting on the evidence that came out, and I had this memo sent out to the highest level. A health minister made Saturday, April 3rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u15	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. The question is, What did the Ministry of Health or Health at the time of this test become? It seems from the evidence that this is actually the first legal assessment of any depth of this Regulation, which was then condemned illegally or that it was not legally supported. The minister rightly says that it is not the role of the Ministry of Justice to investigate the legal basis for the regulations of other ministers, but it is done in this case. As a result, there is a secret that seems to be a note, this legal opinion, of course, even more questions as to what kind of deterioration this case might seem to have occurred in the case of a justice minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u16	A respectable president. I don't know what failures the Minister of Justice should have made in this case. I was worried about my recovery, so I had this work done for me. Since the conclusion was that there was a doubt as to whether the regulations of the Regulation had sufficiently improved, it was sent to the Ministry of Health, where it received a good welcome. This memo was thanked for this memo, and it was taken immediately on Saturday. Later that same day, it was observed that the case would be put to the test in court.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u17	President. It has been noted in the discussion and in unsubstantiated requests that the direct support of the government in Iceland due to the economic effects of Covid was one of the least of the control countries. As mentioned in the U.S. News, Turkey, Albania, Belarusland, Montenegro, Bosnia, Herzegovina, and Moldova are also listed in that list. It was shown in a case of the highest order. While prime minister that several factors had not been listed in this respect, the points listed in the previous answers do not add too much to the total heights. We need to take into account that in Iceland, tourism was the most important economy for Covid. Clearly, a total collapse in tourism has a major impact in Iceland compared to other countries. The largest crash in 100 years has been said, yet specific reactions are no greater than they can be seen. Is this because there was no greater need for response? Did the response result in the need for more? No, for based on the unemployment standards we needed and still need more. At the beginning of the year, there was 10.7% unemployment. By the end of January 11.6%, it rose. At the end of February 11, it decreased slightly. By the end of March 11%, it was still slightly reduced, but it was still more than at the beginning of the year. In addition, approximately 1% at reduced employment rate. A total of 333 lost job jobs, but it is unclear whether it was because people were just finishing their rights or getting a job or because of someone else. This is all in spite of government action. I'm putting together an agreement between the government's financial support, which is as small as it really is, and this great unemployment. I simply ask, " Why haven't there been surgery, despite the growth of unemployment and the increase in the current situation and still in the area we see today? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u18	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry related to the question. paritaprevir LogiEinarsson" was right here. I'd like to recall that, first of all, automatic swings are not included in this comparison. It may, in fact, be pointless to compare Iceland with the United States, for example, with a large number of measures, as well as a quarter of national production, with a whole other system of well - being, with a small amount of control. If we look at other European countries, we can see that these are considerably different. The nature of a matter, like a whale. A senator rightly points out, is to be hit here because of the scope of the tourism in the economy. Then I say, let's look at this standard - and it's true that we've made comments on this measurement of the AGS, because not all our actions are included, not the investment, not the chance to study, increase in unemployment, strengthens for innovation, strengthens for research and development, and probably not creative articles. If we take all of this up to now, Iceland may further be measuring 7.5% of gross domestic product by action, with the scope of direct action during the financial period of 9.3% of gross domestic product in 2020. So: Yeah, we're going to make these comments. Of course, this is just a defined standard. We need to look at the outcome. What has been the result of what has happened in Iceland? Yes, although the largest export is hit, the domestic demand is only combined 1.9% a year. Conspiracy in national production, as I have noted, is much smaller than the predicted at first, and it really is not possible to compare these criteria without both being under, i.e. who was a real contraction, then who is a real cost of action. As for unemployment, I'll find out from here on. But I would like to say, before I come to my second answer, that the government's actions are not yet to be seen. [[The president calls.]] I believe that the campaign will make a big difference in changing the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u19	President. Here at the beginning of the epidemic, we were to react equally. We've seen it build up in a year, and now this operation is finally starting, which will run out, as far as I'm concerned, around elections. That's when it doesn't work. It's not expected to be funded or anything like that ever after. I think it's very irresponsible because there may be a slight political upset at the time, where it may be a political revolution again, etc. Who knows? And what should people do when they lose their jobs around elections, because the government isn't ready to bring a plan on how to tackle unemployment? We must examine the results of the government's actions. Yes, we must examine him as a whole. Not just the averages, as mentioned earlier, but the whole thing. And the overall picture shows that unemployment is progressive, and the changes you can see today are really seasonal fluctuations.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u20	Mr. President. Yes, it is vital that we consider all the standards. I agree with that, pointing out what the trend had been in a domestic demand and who would have been a recession in GDP. Unemployment rate was reduced by 0.4 percentage points in March, but the concern is large, and the number of long-term outworkers is longer than 12 months. Hence, the actions of the government are exactly directed to that group. I pointed out that there are over 1,600 new jobs available. 88% of these are due to government action, i.e. jobs that become available through the campaign will start jobs and make a big difference in the fact that these people will be able to get back into the job market. That is more than just a matter of long - term workaholics. Because it is not an easy place for anyone, it is vital that we react. We'll see some changes in this. I can only say that to what. A senator who has lost his job has declined. We would have all wanted to see bigger steps in that. [[The president calls.]] I believe, however, that the government's actions will bring bigger steps. It's the big deal, and I think we'll agree on that, me and what. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u21	A respectable president. During the past year, there has been quite a serious test of the nation's persistence, and I have to say that I have found that the people's solidarity has been admirable. Of course, now it is important that we keep on going and doing good and that people will be able to endure when we see a country. However, many people are understandably concerned about their survival and well - being, and some of these have a connotation of significance. In Covid's day, it might be said that some foreknowing is what you can ask for, for he is, of course, a big part of a business that needs to be evaluated, even though only gross, income and expenditures, but he is also the essential people of the country, the young people and the old ones, and, in particular, I would like to say. In our neighboring countries, Denmark and Norway, governments have published so - called relief programs. Danes have decided to take steps towards their old life when vaccination at the end of 50 years of age and older will be completed, and the Norwegians have introduced a step - in - June program and will publish it by plan, plans designed to provide a measure of safety, of course by normal warning, because, unfortunately, all countries face a similar situation in this respect, with all plans for mismanagement. Support to the measures and advice of the disease authorities has been very effective for us, and I would like to allow myself to say that this approach is not about, not about, not the discount of the sterilization procedures, but the other side of the coin. Of course, the government has set up a vaccination calendar that is good, including in advance, the nature of the matter. So I would like to ask about some calendar about openings, some targeted public plan in this relationship, some vision of the progress of age and other factors; what happens if it succeeds, what happens if it fails, etc.? So the question is simply to the highest. Prime Minister: Is it possible to publish such a reduction plan in relation to vaccination?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u22	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a good inquiry. It is true that we see our neighboring countries presenting such programs, not necessarily with dates but with specific criteria based on the progress of vaccinations. In fact, it is remarkable to observe that most of these reduction plans may be aimed at heading into the situation we are in, i.e. People are being allowed to get a haircut and open school. Of course, it reminds us of how successful it has been in controlling this epidemic in Iceland without being very aggressive, almost curfews like so many of these nations have had to go through. We also hear reports from Britain that have been successful in immunization, while society has been paralyzed for almost months. We've been working on it, so I can answer it. A senator, who has been more confident that the delivery programmes of the vaccines will last. Since they lasted on the first quarter, we feel more equipped to look forward to the future, i.e. regarding the impact of immunisation on anti-pyretic measures. As long as there was most uncertainty about how the production of the vaccine manufacturer would have been successful, there would have been little interference. My assessment is that a milestone has taken place, and we are seeing much more convincing plans from vaccine producers that enable us to look for longer. I can answer why. So that we may work on such a vision in the realm of the government. We know where we think we'll be in the middle of the year. We then believe that vaccination will be initiated or completed in 240,000 of the estimated 220,000 vaccinations so that we should, based on the continuation of the planned schedule, can put up some guard on that route.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u23	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answers. In this regard, I think it's important that a psychiatrist himself has said that he can't see why the government is putting up any plans I mention here. I understood that the subject referred to a reduction in the context of vaccinations. V.E.G. A prime minister noted that we are in part better places than other kingdoms, and that is, of course, true. Then I'd say that then there's room and space to sort out the steps and when they will be phased. This is relevant whether it is based on dates or the absolute targets for the age of vaccinees. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister, because we have been called on since the last summer, when can we expect this frame to be placed on the table, and again with them the reality is dependent on all of this. However, if these steps take place in a series of vaccinations or even an absolute objective, we must be at that point soon able to frame a timeline in that subject. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u24	Mr. President. I can only say what. A senator said that once we get to the point where we have a fairly practical delivery plan from all the vaccines produced for the next quarter of the year, we should be able to frame this. I imagine it could be sooner than later. I have much more conviction that the plans we've been seeing now will be successful. That's a very good sign. However, I'd also like to say that many of the things that have happened during this epidemic have taught you to keep your head up all the time, especially now with regard to the unknown variants of the virus that we see in different ways. So it is always very difficult to plan ahead without having all this warning in the air, such as the dog. A senator actually did. We see that there is a debate about child immunization in many parts of the world. There is also a debate about the possibility that seasonal vaccination may become part of the future pattern. But that does not change the fact that despite all of this, we are in a much better place. I reiterate what I said earlier that I am very happy not to stand in the situation where many of my colleagues stand, to be even now opening school or letting people get cut. I think it says these actions have certainly worked. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u25	V.E.G. President. I wanted to direct that inquiry to the highest level. Health Minister on the situation of negotiations with specialist physicians. It's better than it has to be said that there's been an unscrupulous case dealing with this group from 2018 that I think. It has been necessary several times to extend payment or regulations that assume temporary payment, and now I understand that by this weekend, it has been published in a practical way that a new Regulation on these matters has been published. I think it's a good reason to ask the highest. A health minister where these matters stand, whether they can give us a description of how treaties have not been reached at this time, and how they foresee the future in government deals with this group that plays an extremely important role in our health systems. Of course, there have been differences between viewpoints as to what should be done by the government and personal resources, but I ask if the highest. A minister sees changes in that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u26	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It is clear that the service of expert physicians is an important part of Icelandic health care. In a new health policy until 2030, we expect this service to be really a part of what we, according to our policy, to be called secondary health care. If the health care is first taken and a third hospital is taken, it is part of a second service also performed by hospital walking departments, possibly day - to - day departments, and less so by health institutions in the country. Hence, there is expertise, an important part of the medical profession. As indicated in the question of why. At the end of 2018, a senator passed out contracts. Since then there has been no agreement between parties, but in the current health insurance laws, it is clear that the principle is that for the State to contribute to the costs of health care services there is a contract between parties to provide the services of the ministry. The law allows the Minister to submit temporary reimbursement for health care costs. It makes it clear that temporary measures are to be taken that are to be used only in special cases. This is also emphasized in a paper that states that these measures are to be applied in individual cases only. These measures have been used for the third year, and it is evident that there is no longer any longer a temporary situation. Because of the importance of a contract in this matter, we need to recognize the situation that in some cases an independently functioning physician has set aside a list of the public system, which makes patients pay two bills when they attend the medical services of specialists.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u27	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I still reiterate what was part of my question, i.e. whether a minister can from his point of view describe the issues that make negotiations impossible, that we are in a position that has been forced to respond by temporary measures. And then, what do you see? A minister of the future? Or does she envision a future change in this system of things? I think it's important to come out. I am aware that the Regulation is still in operation, and hopefully the situation remains that there is some endeavor to achieve contracts. But it would be very good if it were the highest. A minister might inform us on these issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u28	A respectable president. Of course, the fundamental issue of this is limited. We have a set of specics determined by the government, the General Assembly, i.e. How much we would like to buy the services of expert physicians. It can't be unlimited. There's only one way to do that. Then we need to know as the buyer of that service what it should be. It says the knife in the cow because the hosts of the ministry want to give it according to their own opinion and then send the bill to the state. There's this disagreement in the air. What I intend to do is, in fact, to put in a regulation that the remuneration will not be granted to those who work without a contract and will not take them to those who demand extra pay from patients over the hospital records. I think that we could all have expected this change to be made. [[The president calls.]] Of course, my goal is to negotiate with specialists on this vital ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u29	I wanted to come up here to discuss the tactics of the council. We have a treatment for today's four administrations, in effect, being before the council a second time because all of us share these issues in common with those who have previously been promoted by the government officials. And all of them have it in common to present themselves in almost the same costume entirely unchanged or slightly tailored. In most of these cases, there is considerable interest. I'm talking about a case I've suggested in November last year, a case that has to do with child damage on the Internet. I would like to discuss it here if we could agree that we could work in ways other than these, and if we could begin to show respect for the fact that we are at times working together on good issues, and if the situation here at the council is not to be enjoyed at times instead of being frozen.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u30	A respectable president. When I was in high school, Binghorall often played on our backs, and their favorite scene was Syrpan, where they took their noses with their many Icelandic and foreign popular songs and moved us to high school. I get the same feeling when I see the program of the meeting today that I got then, unless we're not at Nite Owl in 1996, we're at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. And what the government offers us is a reimbursement of the four great conferences of government opposition, because people are so stubborn in them that suggestions cannot be approved if they come from the wrong direction. Rather, it should be kept for a year, six months, at least several months, to provide it materially unchanged, and it can be approved. It's just bad, Mr. President. That's really lame. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u31	Mr. President. It must be a peculiar reaction and, in effect, a lack of respect for the council's activities not to use the existing issues and have been proposed and appears to be a willingness, as it were, to get a career. We members of the Parliament are advised that if the same matter has already come to the council, it would not be necessary to present a matter of Congress. Today's program for the council is at least one verse of Congress clearly included in the council and the contents of these two bills, is that I, 95%+ the same material. Let those rules go only for what it's like. Councilmen, they don't apply to the highest. Minister, that they should not present the prime products that are already in the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u32	The president reminds us that it is only a rule that matters of the council that have been decided by the Council cannot be brought to the same council. The president is not familiar with any other principle in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u33	A respectable president. I was here discussing the radical policy of Pirata, the foundation policy, and I'm going to read from it for information. In section 1.1 it says: ▪ Pirrats stress critical thinking and well - informed decisions. This is a radical political policy in Iceland today, a respectable president. In section 1.2 it says: ▪ This means that Piratar's policy is opposed in the light of data and knowledge gained regardless of whether a proposal appears to be desirable at first or not. It is also a radical measure in Icelandic politics today. Says Article 1.2: No matter who its spokesmen are, Pirata's attitude is an idea. It's a radical measure in Icelandic politics today, a respectable president. It's boring that this is not at least a new complaint but, contrary to tradition. It's exhausting. We don't have an honorary body, and we're supposed to change this. The rest of it can do it. I hope the next one will, whatever he may be, do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u34	A respectable president. There is only a limited time that the Senate has to deal with, it is limited, e.g. This very discourse is limited by the time mentioned in the meetings and the repetition of the councils that take place then too. This reduces the effectiveness of the council, and there is plenty of work to be done. This has been a major problem in the past few years, and especially in this terms in which we experience at the beginning of this term that it has been forgotten to reimburse for higher education expenses. Piratar and I had a suggestion to add money, but she could not be accepted, it had to be pulled back, dropped it, and brought back someone else who was not exactly the same. No matter what I tried to ask, the cost was always high: We do not know exactly. That was probably closer to what Pirats and I said, but we never get exact answers. This is the characteristic of this practice, since it is constantly being tried to repeat something just with the correct label. [[The president calls.]] If the label is wrong, then nothing works, and it's bad.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u35	Mr. President. I'm coming up here to join my friends who've been surprised by these tactics. We are at the same time dealing with the known problem that the Government Constitution is a wish list that has little chance of getting filled up. I don't have a count of how many of the cases the government started in the fall have not arrived for a committee and probably won't. However, they are quite numerous, and this is why recycling is especially surprising, as this has been mentioned by some members of the council, i.e. to the Ministers of the Government as the prime minister here, according to a matter already delivered by other members of Congress and have advanced in progress. I have to say, though there are cases - and they certainly weren't, so fair being made in the history of this government, although it's quite advanced - the case of the Minister of Justice is almost completely consistent in a case that is completing its career here at the council, and it's embarrassing. That's a disgrace to a minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u36	Mr. President. I agree with what has been said here today on a very unfortunate task management and waste of the Congress's staff when the government groups cannot support good issues that come from government groups and then show up at least 15 minutes later with their own issues that are completely comparable. As an example, I'd like to take a case of 1st. This is here today, with regard to criminal consumption doses. During the last year's discussion, many government officials went there. The welfare committee had completed this matter completely until the end, had called in all guests, worked the case, made up a committee opinion, but the executives did not trust to support it because they needed one definition of something. Then there's a new bill, and it turns out that it doesn't exist either. You wonder, " Why don't they just make adjustments in the terms of Congress that have spent all this time working on? ' [[The president calls.]] Hv. The welfare committee, although not recycling the same issues, is still busy.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u37	Mr. President. Yes, it is easy to agree with what has happened, and perhaps especially where you hear so often, especially from those in charge, criticism of the Senate primes, that they are so badly destroyed. It's really embarrassing when the exact same bill comes from the Ministry, which somehow should be better won; it's as if professional practice is the only thing about having copies and glue. Besides, this is not positive on the grounds that we have limited time. We need to make good use of the time, and the Senate's time is being wasted to repeat itself over and over again. There are many cases that are presented every year. In this context, we might also discuss whether we should not allow Congress to exist, but in any case, we need to stop wasting time just so that some Minister can be backed up.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u38	A respectable president. Perhaps I would like to add my first speech that it should, and not, and must look to the interests of the individual councils. Naturally, I am busy with the kind of case proposed in November and in terms of legal reforms to protect children from child abuse online. This issue is passed for months. The second point, however, is that of time management, of the work force. What if such a workforce was practiced in a private company, to delay the structure of a problem, to reduce production, purposely, and knowingly, to reduce performance, to cut down, to produce worse, and to slow down results? In these cases, the manifestation is that we're stalling and cutting down justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u39	Mr. President. That's exactly what I want to bring into the confusion that prevails in accepting and putting them away. The person standing here has three times, as they say in Eastern Europe, three times presented a bill that if a government worker chooses, he can work to 73 years of age. In a good attempt to make peace about the end of Congress a year ago, this bill was referred to by the government against the promise that a bill would appear from the government before the last Christmas on the same subject. We have not been standing in such a way as to be reluctant to handle a good case and to handle it quickly, and we take on various forms, Mr. President, including. This one. It's pretty lame at best. We can put it that way. But it's not like it's working.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u40	A respectable president. In addition to this work ethic in the administrative system. Last October, representatives of the administrative parties spoke of it as a particularly tiresome form of lies when people who are better aware of their nonsense. This was when the government had responded to news that there was a possibility for people to be expelled from the land in a limited area. It seemed to be a lie and nonsense because there was no trimming of such intentions in a Senate book, in the same Senate book, and not to mention two of the revised cases that we speak here today. Which is a lie and nonsense, or is it not to refer to plans that do not appear in a Senate file? Government officials need to make up their own minds and stop making issues just to bring them down because they come from the wrong categories.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u41	A respectable president. It's just so unsurpassed work, I come back from my maternity vacation to protest them. No, actually. But I'm sorry that the government who boasts of the granting of the General Assembly in its government contract of government should set these issues aside from the government stand so that it can adorn itself with stolen feathers instead of working with the opposition of government rather than in general peace of mind. The heavens and the earth will not be destroyed if the government's opposition is allowed to achieve good relations with the government. It only shows that the government can cooperate with people on either side of it, in a government, or in a position of government. I would have thought there was something to be proud of, to be proud of, instead of taking a good case and making them their own and acting as if the others weren't good enough. It's just not right. We see these issues in which they are perfectly comparable to those that we in our government stand for. There was nothing wrong with these things, they just came from the wrong people.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u42	Mr. President. I'm surprised that it's okay that the same procedure is being held at the council at the same time, at least. is the counsel we need. Congressmen get good ideas and want them to come up with, unfortunately, it's too late because they have a bill that is the same content or similar content. By itself it is self-limiting. Let's not make it the main thing, but you must ask the highest. The president may consider it a good practice to handle similar matters at the council, even letting them around until Ministers are pleased to present similar issues when the council seems to be before the progress of the matter. Whether this is a bad practice or not it is at least a suggestion to combine such issues as what we have been talking about today about pedophiles, that it is in nature that it is merely included in the Senate case, and then the Senate will be the case that becomes reality where things are basically the same, in principle, there is no difference between them. [[The president calls.]] Is it not a challenge on the part of the council not to be forced into the European Parliament and to take possession of the Parliament's affairs and to supersede the rights?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u43	A respectable president. First, on the matter discussed here, which is a bill for a change in drug and drug law, to purchase and control a limited amount of narcotics for its own use, so-called consumer dosages, will be allowed. I would like to state it here, in my history on this matter, that it is a very important change that lies on a whole-scale ideologies of damage. There are some steps that have truly been taken in this country, and there is some to prevent it. First and foremost, it was to take place in the highest order. the current health minister, Þór Kristján Júlíusson, and the matter of the assembly of Porta, with good cooperation of its council and then the supreme. The health minister was able to establish a basis for the report and policy development at the Department of Health and until then and is important in the steps being taken, whether in the bill under discussion or in the bill that became legal in the earlier term, which is a matter of consumption. I feel it here, and also only in the discussion of the President's conference board just before, that people naturally are concerned that the genealogy of this seminary is being conducted. I have a great understanding of that, and I want it to come up here right away that the one being mentioned here has stressed that, once these cases have been discussed, the initiative that came from the Council of Porta at its time and then got a gang, as we have been doing here. The Senate bill was submitted to the 150th legislature and has been reassigned to the present assembly, and that is why. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen First Transporter. It is true that the bill discussed here is partly based on the work and the comments received through that bill at any given moment. The welfare committee. My opinion is that it is extremely important to take such steps with the most broad solidarity possible. We were fortunate to make a decision on consumption in a councilroom, and it was a step that may have been far more radical than we realized when we were taking it. Despite the primary issue of consumer consumption, it was a fundamental issue of dealing with the problems of drug abuse by health - care professionals rather than by the judiciary system. This is fundamental. At the same time, it is appropriate to keep to the point that doubts about the benefits of the international anti-drug struggle have gone on increasing and prominent in international and national discussions and have been supported by research and international policies. Research has shown that there is no direct causal relationship between self-approaching doses and significant increases in the use of narcotics in the community. This is simply not supported by research. In addition, penalties have been shown to have little or no effect on individual behavior. Rather, there are many other interactive factors that encourage a person to change his behaviour in regard to drug abuse. According to research, banning all drugs increases the perimeters of the user compound and contributes to their eviction from the community. Such circumstances minimise the impact of measures designed to protect the health of users, such as damage to the patient and other health care services requiring uncircumcised trust between services and clients. This trust has been developed in Frú Ragnheiður in a very important and useful way. For this sensitive group, the rods we should build on other health services have been provided. With the removal of this bill, it becomes law, punishment for buying, and possession of drugs used for personal use, a major step was taken toward changing views in Icelandic society toward people who use any drug. Thus, this bill, if it becomes the law, reduce peripherality, and prejudice toward those who use drugs that have been banned so far, could again lead to more individuals than otherwise would receive the appropriate help to cope with addictions and their consequences. To this end, it is hoped that by the bill, the public's attitude toward the use of drugs will become more humane and will counteract prejudice and the shame of using drugs. It is my conviction that if this is a law, it will save lives. Hence, this is human kindness, primarily in and out of health matters. A term well spoken here only when we talked earlier about consumption space, which leads to negative mental relationships, also contributes to the recession of the use of drugs. Instead of the words addicts, drugs, drug addicts, and drug addicts, we should use drugs and drugs to name an example. The next step would be to change the name of the law, but with a better speech, we will be more effective, and gradually there will be a change of viewpoint in the seminary. A respectable president. The goal of the bill, as mentioned earlier, is to change the drug and addictive law in the process of buying and defending limited amounts of addictive and drug abuse for their own use, so-called consumption dosages, to be allowed. In this context, a clear distinction must be made between the use of illicit drugs and drug abuse for use, as discussed here, and the legislation of addictive drugs that have been also under discussion in the past few years. With this bill, only buying and protecting a limited amount of addictive and drug use will be permitted. Nevertheless, the treatment, import, import, sale, exchange, delivery, reception, production, dressing, and, in addition, possession of narcotics over the specified limited amount of substances defined as prohibited and punished by the law. In other words, the criminal responsibility for buying and holding a limited amount of materials remains forbidden. I'd like to emphasize this difference, but that's not what I'm specifically explaining my position on that matter, but primarily to explain what's being proposed here. The legal process of narcotics and narcotics means that laws forbidding possession and drug abuse would be canceled and that would be a different step than the one being taken here. I would especially like to draw attention to the fact that despite the fact that there are only material changes in the three laws of the law, this is a very important matter. The requested bill presents changes in drug and drug laws in the process of buying and defending a limited amount of drugs for its own use, so-called consumption, but the bill also stipulates that a minister in the Regulation should determine the quantity of addictive and drug use to be considered for his own use. This must be done in a controlled Regulation where the market with drugs is constantly changing and must be able to respond to and add materials of the Regulation and to adjust the amount of consumption without the need to make adjustments. Then it should be noted that if the bill of law falls police guilty because of violations of drug and drug consumption. At the same time, the bill suggests that substances obtained from 18 years of age and older should not be confiscated when the amount is within what is considered to be its own use. The reason for deciding that the change was both for purchase and for possession, which is a change from other issues under discussion, addiction and drugs for use, is that it is impossible to imagine a situation where using substances that consume drugs without having to provide them with any means of advice. If only drug and drug abuse is permitted, but their forces are still defined as being criminally punished, the reality of users is that they have not been fully used for personal consumption. Therefore, the bill suggests that drug and drug sales will still be completely banned but payable doses. Such application of the law is truly unusual, but it is known in Icelandic law that much of the Swedish way introduced in Icelandic courts is a legal act that required the punitive punishment of prostitution and that the responsibility for the trade was upon the buyer's shoulders and not on the sellers. In the extension of this bill, it would be the opposite, i.e. sales of narcotics would be punished and assumed that the responsibility for business would rest on the landlord's shoulders, for many of those who buy drugs for their own use of palaces in society. It should be noted, however, that only legal requirements that require the purchase of narcotics to the extent authorised by law and regulations, i.e. within the predefined consumption dose range. More than that amount of drugs would still be punished. A respectable president. The bill suggests that police's authority on uptake does not cover the materials stored in the custody of individuals 18 years of age and older when the content of the materials is within what can be considered to be its own use. This will make sure that even those who have been purchased illegally, they will not have obtained material for themselves. The police will then have no authority or obligation to confiscate such material. The purpose of this is to deal with situations that have occurred when individuals with substance problems have been reluctant to call for immediate assistance or to seek assistance in fear of arrest or to keep their doses in use by police. It is also suggested that the exception does not include individuals under 18 years of age. Although it seems right to trust adults to make their own decisions about drugs, it is only right for children to be allowed to have maintenance authority, since in all cases they are not fully mature to treat this type of substance. In the contract of the bill, the experience of Portugal, Norwegian, Oregon, U.S.A., has been considered particularly for use either in cases of crime or in cases of such activity. There will continue to be experience in other countries, if this bill is accepted, under the definition of a personal consumption dose, but the bill says that when the law takes effect, on January 1, 2022, there is a Regulation required on the amount of material authorised for its own use. This work requires careful consultation with the stakeholders, such as users, State prosecutors, and the police. Finally, it should be noted that the bill is intended to support the previously mentioned change laws on consumption, but under local laws it is permitted to confiscate and punish those who carry it. Their goal is to give users drugs that inject drugs into the vein as a haven to consume the substances in the best possible circumstances, with the aim of preventing further irreversible damage and improving quality of life and improving their health. Clearly, these laws do not fully achieve their objective until purchases and waste consumption are used in a criminal manner, i.e. ... hasa penalties. In the case of the Ministry of Health, in terms of opening waste space, local societies have expressed concern about the rights of their employees when helping drug users to abuse. They worry, if this bill becomes legal, because such conduct would not be illegal. Despite the fact that the bill contains a specific measure of action, it is clear that this is a major step toward causing damage. When the law on addiction and drugs has been changed so that consumer management is authorized, but this bill takes one more step to harm them. At the same time, there is hope that total alcohol and drug policies can be submitted, including On the basis of a proposal for a resolution of public health policy now available for the General Assembly and will be discussed during the course of the year. The welfare committee. There will be increased emphasis on prevention, treatment and decomposition, but it is also important to take more steps toward the humanitarian structure of the case. A respectable president. I have now explained the main subject of the bill being discussed and allow me to suggest at the end of the 1st. Refer to the welfare committee and 2nd Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u44	President. I'd like to thank you very much. Healthcare Minister for measuring this matter and offering it. I support that natural mind. But I'd like to ask this about it because the Piratars and I raised a similar subject during this council. It showed that we would put together a team of work to explore and monitor the effectiveness of these policy changes, i.e. the success of a criminal charge, and they also look forward to saving money in the defense system, whether it would be guaranteed that money would be spent in prevention. That it is important to know how important it is for us to be moving on fortification at the same time we are delinquency. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of Health why this bill does not show up and whether it is up against it. Will this be guaranteed? I'm worried that if we don't, there'll be no obvious results that we measure and monitor, it could easily go back to normal.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u45	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for the inquiry and, in fact, the cooperation of this class, which has been highly valuable. It is long - term to assess the effect of such changes. The impact of Portugal continues to be debated despite 20 years'experience from law-enforcement. I agree with the basic thought of paying very close attention to such changes. We're doing national polls in high school in general in the community where kids are placed in the 10th grade all over the country. Research and analysis are being carried out by the research and public health checks of a surgeon can be used to measure indirect effects in many ways. On the other hand, I have emphasized that public healthism is a treatment. The welfare committee is part of an analysis and monitoring the effects there will be, as well as improving and strengthening them because they must always hang together. But that's my conviction, for the rest of my life. One senator wondered whether I am sufficiently involved in these matters, that as long as we've adopted a ideologies, we've never been able to create any legislation that destroys drug abuse in our society, we've never been able to make enough money in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u46	President. The other thing I'm thinking about, and I think it's really important that this case be approved. It's like the highest. In his talk, a minister said that he was talking about saving lives. She is convinced that this change will save lives. I am also convinced of that. I would have wanted to do this a year ago, but we're doing this right now. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Is she involved with the rest of the governments on this matter? Is there more to this matter? Will it be approved?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u47	A respectable president. The case is presented as a government case. On the other hand, as indicated in the case of a man. The senator, under the tone of her language, presents this matter as a very contrary to political parties, some, not all, so I would assume that we should try to win it so that there would be a very wide convergence about it. I think it also matters that the project works out as well. Now, we're talking about a post-election value when we might have a changed government, and it could be amazingly possible that there would be even another health minister. If we are talking about recording for the next year, how important it is that it is a solid foundation for the matter itself! That's why, of course, I want to hope that, with the help of the oats. The welfare committee of the case, which is not involved in this discussion for the first time and is quite familiar with the case, lends her a good grasp of it, and underscores the subject, which is the ideologies of damage to and human feelings and the approach that we want to do this in order to save lives and disappear from a criminal policy to that we are primarily attending health care in a sensitive group. But the step that's taken in addition to my bill from what has been previously proposed to be turned away from the penalty on the premium. It's a new step, and for some, it could work too radically. I hope not. I hope that both the reasoning in the bill and the report will draw people to the realization that it will not really be broken apart once you are in reality.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u48	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. Indeed, they are interesting, the highest legal standards. This ideal period has been submitted by a health minister. First there is the abortion bill and then now the criminal abuse of drugs. But what I wanted to come on is what is clearly presented in this bill, as stated in 2 Timothy 3: 1. ... withauthority of the President's permission: It should be bought and protected by materials that are not beyond what can be considered to be its own use. And that is what the Bible says in Leviticus. par.Unable to While substances that are in the hands of individuals 18 years of age and older should not be confiscated when the amount is within the range considered to be self-administered. In his speech, the minister added that there is no authority or duty from the police to confiscate matter. Then I'd like to ask you the highest. Minister to neighboring countries. When the bill of this material was discussed in Norway, the Norwegian government proposed a prime bill for the Norwegian Council following the work of the Committee, suggesting that consumption doses no longer be punished, although it would remain permitted for the police to stop its use, it would be recognized and confiscated. So we're cutting out of there. V.E.G. Well, then a minister can just correct me, but I think it's like this, too, in Portugal, because of the highest. A minister named Portugal in his speech. Why do we travel longer than our neighboring countries, such as. Norway? Why can't the police confiscate this? Do we always have to go the longest in Iceland? I refer to the abortion bill as an example.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u49	A respectable president. I notice why. A senator is deeply involved in the fact that we always have to go the longest. I don't think that's right. On the other hand, I present a situation that I believe, exactly as it is lived here, is better for the health of those who use drugs in this way. We certainly stand out as different, but the emphasis on the bill comes from the Red Cross because the Red Cross has been working with this group and is very aware of the health problem of this delicate group. I think it is obvious that the possession of this scale would most likely increase the damage to the consumer because the person will need to retake the materials and thus be reassigned for even further damage. It is, in fact, the detoxification theory that leads us to this proposal here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u50	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The minister's answer, which I thought was a little special. I would now have thought it would be natural for us to look at our neighboring countries in this regard if at any other level we were to accept this bill, which I am against. What I would like to ask, in the second answer, lies against those who abuse drugs, the families. It is the families that are most often opposed to the crime of drugs. This has been observed in local studies, including At the University of Akureyri. The candidates want to continue to punish all who, whether it is regarding the supply or demand, for they believe that this will prevent further spread of the materials. I simply want to ask the highest. Health Ministers to what she wants to say to these families whose children, individuals who abuse drugs. These families are the most opposing group of families, and they stand next to the problem. This group is against this bill. What's the top order? Ministers tell these families?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u51	A respectable president. I'd still like to put a question mark to this sort of generalization, that the people would like something. I think it's just very different. The experience and knowledge we have here is not merely experience and knowledge of those who work with this peripheralized group, which is primarily the Red Cross and, in some respects, a health system, and, of course, are not a uniform group. We're primarily based on ideologies that are about humanity and respect for people who are in trouble, i.e. to prevent people from being forced to go completely to the edge because of their consumption and being able to stay inside the light, have a right to health care, and have the right to be a member of the community. It is, in fact, the ideologies that the Norwegians have called from punishment to humanity, which I think we might well flaunt and be proud to join. Of course, there are so many people around us who are as varied as they are. For their loved one, some are following a human - minded approach. Most people want the person to receive the help he can get as much help as possible. Of course, we need to make sure that there are treatments for those who want to quit and can quit, but at the same time we cannot close our doors to those who need adequate service.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u52	A respectable president. I'm gonna come up here for a minute and ask the highest. Minister and thank you for this bill I believe is important. The discussion that was created in the conference board earlier, that we were disrespecting another bill that had been on the welfare committee and didn't cut through -- I believe that the discussion at the welfare committee at that time about that bill was very important because we have to turn this around, not only here at the council, but also in the community, in the community. It's a big change, but I'm a follower of her, even though I've wanted to do a little better and more spinning than was done in spring. According to the government's treaties, we need to break free from severe punishment for the use of drugs and rather work on acceptable treatments that we have done at the council today. The successful consumption was a big, important step away from the severe punishment for the possession of consumer doses and the lack of a minor offense record. All are the steps in the same direction. But I'd like to ask the highest question. A minister on this bill, whether immediately last year's work on the changed landscapes of both police and therapeutic religions, and what has been done to prepare that change. On the one hand, a good report was made last year, but it was consulted with the police and the contacts that were then involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u53	A respectable president. I agree completely with what. A candidate on what is presented in it for changes of this magnitude. Although the bill may not be giving in to much, the discussion is very important, and it is very important that it takes place both within the assembly and outside. It is so important that society is ready, and not just the community as we are talking about, founded environment, police, etc., but perhaps much more the community as the topic of discussion that can be at best. So I want to agree with that. Of course, the bill has not become a law, but it is one of the things that must be prepared very well. It is not only necessary to ensure that those who have to work under the new law, if the council closes this matter, are involved but also must keep very close to the support of the candidates. This change in legal environment also directly affects families not only in the service of someone who uses drugs or drugs on the right or in the right to enjoy it but also in the discussion that disappears on an individual. One of the main factors in these matters is to reduce the ostracism of this community.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u54	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister for these answers and accepts the importance of moving about a little. We are not to talk about criminals, about people of all walks of life and types who are dealing with this problem, and we need to change the subject. What I wanted to come to in the second answer is about the dose. It refers to a minister's enforcing regulations on quantity and so on. You wonder what this is all about. I've heard from the police that they're afraid they don't know what they're dealing with, how it's going to work with this. A consumer may be taken with a fixed dose on that day, and it may be taken again at the same dose on the following day. What is this, and from what ideologies should this law be carried out? Is this something we pick up from the North countries or are they working on a regulation within the police and the officials who know these matters very well so that they won't get in conflict as soon as they're ready?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u55	A respectable president. As indicated by what. A candidate does not have a definition of consumption, but careful consultation with those interested in them is expected, as is said in the bill of police and State prosecutor, as is the case with those who use drugs themselves. There are several examples, including. from Portugal, as discussed here, from Norway, in the state of Oregon, U.S.A., showing that there is a wide range of agreements on the consumption process. But it has to be kept in mind that we do not take this kind of rule directly from other communities because the use of drugs in Iceland is saying that people who know best, in some respects different from those that happen in other parts of the world. For example, the use of intravenous risalin is rather common in this group than that of few in the countries around us. There's no scientific evidence behind it or research on it, it's just like that, and that's why we need to consider it. In Portugal, Oregon, and Norway, this has been suggested, according to a ten - day standard. There is, in fact, no particular basis for it, but it is necessary to lay this issue in a regulation because this market is constantly changing, and it is urgent to be able to respond to, or absorb, the materials or take into account events and sizes without the need to be adjusted. The group with this interest will be assigned to define consumption dosages and this work will be started as soon as we see the end of the Council's handling of the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u56	President. We are now ready to resist what is considered as universal human rights because it is thought to be essential in dealing with an epidemic. At the same time, however, the government now proposes that another epidemic, even less dangerous, will be particularly legalized, suggest the legal action of drugs. As in so many cases in these New Age politics that the government is doing with ever - increasing zeal, Orwellur's example is endeavoring to create a new word for things and invent the reputation of a criminal debate for the treatment of drugs. There is a trend toward using drugs through government permission. In many cases, it is that something is illegal why people do not do it, the greatest obstacle. The message that governments are sending on about what is allowed in society and what has not been a great deal to say, and especially in the case of drug abuse, where children and adults are explained, too, that taking drugs is illegal. I've never seen drugs, Mr. President, or consumed them because they've been illegal and they haven't been wearing them. However, with the proposed change, it may be expected that there will be no fear of bringing their consumption at class parties and other parties where the temptation will probably be great for others to experiment, people who would otherwise not have been exposed to these drugs. In other words, this clearly makes much more possible access to drugs and will likely do much more to test these substances. In other words, at each class party there will be a risk of transmission. Drug abuse always starts with a dose, but the same amount can kill another person's body. It is very different from what people tolerate drugs. But in fact, it informs the highest. A minister here that even the consumption of food by Norway will be considered to represent a 10-day drug dose of drugs that can be taken by man, and in a much easier way than previously administered or sold. Mr. President, in a very unique way, the matter is presented in this way and not even tried to hide the root of it. The message is, like, the highest. Minister has moved here, this isn't drugs, it's not drugs. We're gonna start calling this drugs, and it's nothing to be ashamed of. This is the message to the kids about drugs from the government in 2021. In fact, the secretary intends to work out the details, not quite sure what the amount of consumption is, has not yet been determined but intends to seek advice. in drug addicts, who will likely have their own opinion of what is normal consumption. Nevertheless, the minister wants the council to legalize consumer doses that the minister himself does not know what is. This whole thing is unique, Mr. President. And what happens when someone dies because of one recommended dose of consumption under regulations? What is the responsibility of the government there? Will this consumption dose be tested for quality control, the strength of their production? Drugs are often mixed with other substances. Will it be determined in each case whether or not to create a complex cocaine - or not if these laws are valid - 10% pure or 100%? You may not be able to evaluate this, since those taking the material may simply tell the police to get the hell out of there. It must not be, and is specifically tried in the bill, confiscate substances that may be considered as doses of consumption, use of ten days, or any of the results. In other words, police can take alcohol from 18 - year - olds, 18 - year - olds, but they must not take cocaine from the same youth to receive this bill as law. I have heard many stories from people who have either been struggling with drugs or, more often, been helping relatives, children often in the past. After this case was presented, I heard a story about how parents, in their own eyes, had reasoned, saved their child's life because it was taken with a dose, and it gave the opportunity to intervene. On this point the police, both in Iceland and elsewhere, have pointed out the importance of having this chance to intervene in the exact way to assist people and show compassion, which is one of the words that are used in the Orwell language to back up this bill. But with these laws, if they come into force, we must not intervene. You can't even say bad things about what's at the top. A minister says that we should start calling drugs, not drugs, and not say that addiction to drugs is abnormal. People who get hooked want to, I imagine, in the vast majority of cases, getting help. The government message should not be that we are not going to intervene. In many cases people simply need it, and they are grateful afterward when it comes to the available resources. So here we are in connection with this discussion, the highest. In fact, a minister may admit that she did not do much of it here in her talk, that being drug addicts is being imprisoned. In fact, it is stated in the bill that there are absolutely exceptions, that it is not customary in Iceland to imprison people for taking drugs, which allows them to intervene and help. On the other hand, I might have wondered, and I would have preferred to see a bill on that subject, whether it is not a reason to clear the criminal record of minor drug crimes before long enough to give people the opportunity to build up their own lives without getting stuck with the criminal record. I would support such advances. Now we have in front of us this amazing bill. It's just, it's just, like, high school, actually. Minister of rights and wrongs. Pirata's members have emphasized here before this discussion began. But now it's moved like so many other New Age policy issues that this government has adopted as its arms, it's a government case, by the minister and members of the left green, forward, and independent party, the Independence Party, which defined as the only class of law and order and the forwarding party that preached drugless Iceland in the year 2000. Will these groups agree with the wonderful things presented here? Then there's a foreign gathering, Portugal a lot mentioned in this context. But the experience from Portugal, the method used there, is quite different from the one set out here. There is the possibility of intervening, and there is also a way to receive drugs when they are taken to a greater degree than here. However, this is not even a free society that must play its part in health matters without being cut off from the health authorities. Perhaps it has something in common with the Oregon Company in the United States, but this company is actually famous for its amazing, amazing, experimenting in legalization, and I don't think it will be good to follow through on many changes that have been made there, even though I don't have time to trace it here. But I'd be a little surprised if those classes of this government were to follow the course that has been ruling in Oregon. It is always bad when the lawgiver makes mistakes, but it is a mistake if he makes them with open eyes, when the mistake is predictable, as is true in this case. These are laws that inevitably lead to an increase in the spread of drugs because they can meet with drugs anywhere, any time, and the police or others can say nothing because the message from the state is: this is allowed. It's not drugs, it's not drugs, it's illicit drugs and nothing to be ashamed of, like the highest. Minister said it earlier. In fact, there was too much in the talk. Minister so that I can discuss it in brief, I might do so in the second speech. But with this bill to the law, police intervention is being prevented. They are hindering the potential of those who help drug addicts to get help, sometimes unaware of their own need but who are so grateful for the help they have received. They're blocking the ability of candidates to intervene and help. It is interesting to compare this with the emphasis and coverage of other subjects, e.g. was a talk about sugar and not to mention smoking. There the government does not deliver the message that sugar is nothing to worry about. True, although some individuals may have had some ideas in this administrative community, they have not already been banned from sugar. The same is true of many other things, since this government consistently shows more efforts to control people's lives and ban certain things than will at the same time authorize what may be the most dangerous of all, drugs. So far, the absurd situation in which this is going to be achieved is that humans can have a dose of ingestion or a 10-day supply of drugs, but they may not have it in plastic bags, since they are forbidden. But the drugs in the plastic bag -- yes, it's all right, in the opinion of the government. It's like the highest. The president hears a lot of what I'm going to mention in this case. I may have a chance to do that later in the discussion. But most of all, I'm amazed that this case is presented here with the logical support the minister has to offer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u57	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his speech, although I felt that he was going out of his way to make some sort of appointment for the council, which I always consider a somewhat strange style; this is called a wonderful and modern policy, and something like that, because I think this matter merits a material discussion. I think it can handle it all because it's all about life and death. It's about health, and it's about the real life for a highly defined group that is being restored by this bill and that's what I'm saying. A senator to participate in that discussion. In fact, research has shown that there is not a direct causal relationship between the use of drugs and the use of drugs in society, thus making claims. There is no evidence of anything else. Research shows that when sales are still illegal, bioavailability remains unchanged in the community. So statements on increased bioavailability are not valid. The banism has not worked, and the forward party certainly intended to rid Iceland of drugs in 2000, and history tells us how we came to that goal and where it is. A respectable president. People are having trouble today. Young people are dying today. That's the situation. So I ask. A member of the council kindly, because many of his middle-class associates voted with consumer accents and the adjustment made: wondering why. The senator differs from the bill suggested here?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u58	Mr. President. V.E.G. Minister says this matter is about life and death. I can agree with the highest. Minister, as I could before. Often, there is a difference between life and death whether it is possible to intervene and help someone who is not even in position to see for himself that he needs help. It can also be a matter of life and death whether someone tries drugs for the first time, a single dose of drugs, and dies. There are examples of this. Unfortunately, there are several examples in Iceland. So, yes, this is a matter of life and death and of how it is most profitable to respond, to help people, to help those who need help. But as I mentioned earlier, they do not always realize it for themselves when they are deeply involved in drug abuse, although they will later be grateful. That there is no evidence of an increase in bioavailability - I encourage the highest. A minister to submit the studies that demonstrate that when drug abuse is legalized, there is no increased chance that people will use these drugs among other people at social gatherings. It takes no more than a common sense to see that if the message from the government is that it is permitted, then people will be much more impatient about taking these things around and inviting them to try or maybe take some of them up for testing the end of the story so that it's all right, at least Legal.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u59	A respectable president. Prevention is a export product in Iceland, and there is a unique availability of treatment in Iceland as well. Still, there are people in Iceland who have chronic and serious drug problems. I'd like to keep it to you from now on in this discussion that the police are allowed to confiscate material with young people under 18 years of age. That's the way it is, and it's gonna stay that way. I understand the point of that. Because I think it's important to discuss these matters in the skin, and it's important that the concern that we may be concerned about the future change in the legal environment is over and that we discuss them. At the same time, I feel that it is important that we base this discussion on facts, that we look at what the World Health Organization tells us in these matters, that it has run its course, and that it does not really bring us the results we would like to see. I'm asking why. The senator again on the matter of consumerism.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u60	V.E.G. President. I'm sorry I forgot to answer the question about the consumption space earlier. I think there's a fundamental difference between that and this. In fact, I had some doubts about the consumer business, but it's hiding at least In the case of drug users, it can be done with a little more security, e.g. For injection needles. Of course, this consumption space came first because of needles at the time, but also because I had the hope, Mr. President, that this would give the opportunity to approach the people, not to grab them and put them in, but to approach them and offer them help. However, whether they can offer help to get rid of drugs is now a matter of conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u61	A respectable president. Hv. A senator spoke of orwelling use of words, and I couldn't help but catch it. I'm pointing out what. A senator is supposed to be the drug and drug law we live in by 25 years after Orwellur's death. Thus, the use of orwell words was well - known and well used at the time. Does that sound good when speaking at any given moment? A senator, who pondered over the terms drugs, drugs, and drugs, believed it to be orwellic. A respectable president. I want to point 'em. A senator, as most people may know who have at least seen drugs in life, knows that there are drugs that are not addictive. For example, LSD is not considered drugs because it does not cause addiction. On the contrary, if people test LSD once or twice, they are more likely to never try again if they are gone. No specific toxic effect, although very strong, can be seen. That is why it is simply more appropriate to call these drugs drugs. That's what they are. On the other hand, such terms as drugs are used in an ornate way to make up the thing some monster, some dishonour that has to be dealt with by some kind of military law, such as the law on addictive drugs, which was designed to defeat the hopeless drug war called the hopeless drug war. But what really bothers me after my speech. A senator's use of orwell language is the way he used the concept of humanitarian, dignified president. I don't know what to say. Hv. A senator standing here in a prison penalties are the response of society to the use of drugs and problems of those facing it, and he intends to call it humanitarian. A respectable president. I haven't heard any more misapprehension here in a pendant. Is that really the case? A senator, really, that punishing drug addicts is humane?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u62	Mr. President. I would've thought what. A senator might agree with me that the latercommunicative use of English words has increased greatly. But maybe it's a misunderstanding, like when I thought it would be. A senator would have a measure of liberal thinking. He corrected me at my time and informed me that he was primarily equal, but they can now be controlling by nature. Speaking of liberality, it is largely an indication that humans can reason things out and have different opinions on them. Freeness is not the same as giving all things freely. Freeness is about seeking the best ways, especially the best way to help people, making their lives better. That's why I think it's strange. A senator reacts so badly that I talk about the human spirit of intervening and helping people who need help, even if these people do not realize the need for help or are unable to ask for it. When you see someone in need, you have the balls to step in and have some tools to do that. Making a device to grab in and help those in need, that's humanity, Mr. President, and strange to our course. A senator should be shocked. Hv. A senator also feels that it is highly inappropriate to create some drug or drug monster. LSD is a drug, Mr. President. Whether we call it drugs or not, it's drugs. Drugs are monsters. They are one of the most dangerous monsters society is facing. [[The president calls.]] That is why we need resources to fight that monster, even though that battle may never be a full challenge. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u63	A respectable president. I listened attentively to the answer given. A senator, who is really trying to understand him properly, is really trying to help me understand him. I understood his answer as yes, that he thought it was humane that it was punishment for drugs and that it would be humane to punish people who are having a drug problem. That's how I understood the language. Senator. But somehow he manages to accept terms of punishment and help, making them the same. It is not in the law to help those who are using drugs, a respectable president. It says they should be punished. That's what's being fixed here. Hv. A senator cannot afford to lecture others about orwell use of words like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u64	Mr. President. At one time, I worked very hard to understand Pirata's divinity, thinking that I had made some progress. Then there's always a setback like here today. How it is not a matter of humanity to have a legal device to help people who need help, but it is not a matter of punishment for drugs in the sense of being imprisoned, as if in my speech earlier. I noted that many people might be viewed as having such a criminal record, but there is the possibility of keeping people away from drug abuse and from interrupting and helping those who have become addicted and who need help. It's humane.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u65	President. I just want to thank you. A senator before the speech because I think it's a little important. It sheds light on the prejudice and lack of understanding of the conditions still existing in the community today. It's really important that we throw light on it and we talk about it and get to the root. Where's this coming from? What is this dread? That's why these conversations are important. I'd like to ask you why. A senator: Does he realize when it comes to addiction how much this science has since developed a drug and drug law? The knowledge of what causes addiction is today. We know that it is no longer the material itself, but it is this staging and bonding structure that exists in a person who is an addict, the trauma he has suffered, which makes him addicted, while others who abuse the same drugs do not become addicts. That's what this bill is about. It is about helping these individuals based on the best knowledge we have today as to what addiction is. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Does he know anything about what he's talking about? Is that the feeling that this must be wrong with the message that this makes? Is this based on some kind of scientific knowledge about addiction, and how best to handle it? Because I can't hear it. I've worked hard to study this science, and I can't hear from the senator's debate that he knows this science. All I hear is fear.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u66	Mr. President. Is it based on scientific knowledge? Of course, I have read a great deal about these matters, but these are based primarily on common sense, as well as on human experience. I suppose that's what. A senator, like me, has heard countless experiences of people, whether they are close or those who have contacted someone who is a senator or a man who is involved in this work. These experiences are many, and apart from the difficulty of self - injury or trying to help relatives, I feel that it is important to intervene and help people. Once they have succeeded and they have been helped, everyone is satisfied with that intervention, that loss of freedom, as one might call it, in view of this bill. Speaking of being prejudiced by not speaking about drugs, Mr. President, I think it's a very long way to go. This does not involve prejudice. People get involved. I don't suppose anyone wants to be a drug addict. But for good reason, drug dealers try to get themselves killed by new customers, take the initiative to give, e.g. First dose, search for tools, even outside school, in order for new customers to become addicted to drugs.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u67	President. I appreciate the answers. Common sense. It's a question: Should we build the law in the land on what each person feels is reasonable because it is all over? I don't think that's possible. We cannot approach the material that way. I'd like to ask simple questions because we have so little time to go over all of this. If we just talk about our children, our young people in the country we love and want to like; we want these people, these kids who are going through a period of their lives in which there is high risk behavior, and risk behavior is just a very normal part of the development process -- we want to create a safe environment for these kids or not? Do we want these kids to experience it at a party where someone takes bad stuff and gets very sick and almost dead -- do we want the kids to trust the cops enough to call her and ask for help? Or do we want people to be hiding this, afraid of the police and not feel like they can talk to adults about the problem they're facing?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u68	Mr. President. Of course, when needed, people are afraid to seek help. But I think it's a little strange how they draw up the image that people get into trouble if they do. It's just not like that at all. It is not the custom here to put people in jail for drug abuse or for calling an ambulance if someone is at risk. But as I have mentioned now, I'm sure there are good reasons to consider whether such incidents should not be eliminated from the criminal record to enable them to escape such a past. But if we want to protect people, like a dog. A senator here takes an example, at a party, we must want to protect it from having access to these materials, that they are placed on the table in front of it, and say, "Why don't you just try? " The government says it's okay.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u69	President. I was just going to give a short talk and thank a health minister for putting up this amazingly important subject, but now I'm so excited that I feel that I need to give some inspired speech here. How important it is that as lawgivers, we can accept it when a course that has been carried out for many years is not working. We must be able to face up to the fact that our approach to addiction has not been successful. We need to be able to look at the evidence and science, and we need to make a new decision to shape a new course, and we need to be not afraid of doing so. We cannot continue to refuse to recognize that the expedition failed because we are afraid of the message it sends to our young men. I think we need to trust young people much more than we do today. Young guys aren't crazy. It's easy to get information online. There is no problem with finding information about anything on the Internet and getting the right information. We need to trust young people so that we do not become completely insane in this regard. But we also need to be there to catch people who are in trouble and who really help them, not with prejudice and embezzlement, as is present in the present system. It's not that punishment helps people. We're talking about common sense. Consider this: If a person has experienced tragedy during his childhood or through life and has experienced relationships, an inability to relate to loved ones, to society, and to himself and to suffer difficulties and thus becomes involved in drug abuse, which becomes a drug problem or an addiction, then punishment is only a matter of increasing contact. Punishment isn't about to fix it, it just makes it worse. If someone has been pushed to the edge of society, I find it reasonable to admit that it will never help him to push it further. The only way that we can do this is by drawing these individuals closer to us and helping them to develop a bond. This is the way to help, and it is so important that we look, not to punish people, but to help them. Putting together punishment does not make sense. It does not make sense. Back to the bill. Piratar and I have made that statement twice before, as shown in the report, but it did not work out. I am incredibly grateful that the health minister recorded it and that it is making it available. I sincerely hope that this matter is settled here at the council, for it is of incredible importance. It is important that we take this discussion. I have also met people, both addicts and people who have had addiction problems themselves, who are overly skeptical about the right use of drug drugs, and who are overly afraid of the message we are sending to society, and what effect that will have on them. I think it's natural anxiety, natural warnings, because it has something to do with that feeling. As lawgivers, however, we cannot build laws and legislation on our emotions as to what we consider reasonable or right or wrong; we must do so from data. We have to look at science. We have to look at what other countries have done, what the results are and what works. What I would like to leave behind in this discussion, especially at work on a welfare committee, is that I feel that we take care of putting money on preemptive work. This must be done at the same time if we want the results to be successful. It matters, and it is what we have done so wonderfully as a community, we have managed to reduce the consumption of young people with preemptive activity. We're supposed to keep it up and do it better. It's not gonna be like a whale. paritaprevir Davíð Gunnlaugsson said that as soon as we've taken doses of crime, there's an all - pile of drugs on every level because we've become all right in the eyes of people because we've taken a dose of criminal drugs. Getting high today is no problem. It's no big deal. It's on Facebook and Twitter and Instangram, it's just a phone call. Despite being illegal and protected by penalties, the material is everywhere in the community for a long time. What we're doing right now is to make sure that those who have problems are protected and in a safe environment, can seek help without getting involved in prejudice and more peripheralization. That's what this is all about. I really hope we can do this well on a welfare committee. We have already done a tremendous amount of work on this task, so we have come very far along with this matter on a welfare committee. I can't wait to keep working, and I hope that the discussion here will be good.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u70	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen for her speech, which was very good. I've been discussing these matters a lot, and I wish it were as simple as the lay of the day, but I'm worried it's not that simple. The number of drug types, some 250, has increased dramatically. That's why my question to the senator is, What's your ration? Can the senator tell us what consumption is? The minister's speech earlier showed that there is no prior supply, and I felt that there would be a need to lie down before we legalize drugs. The Senator spoke about science, that science was a major source in these matters. Watch your step. A senator explained this to me a little bit more? Then there is the question: There are many other countries that have taken similar steps, mentioned Norway and Portugal, and I have read in the reviews that it is not quite comparable. Wouldn't it have been better to take the step in this direction, for I can totally agree that it's very bad that people have a criminal record, it's just very bad, to take this whole thing away, to open treatments away, so the models aren't the way they are, extra education, and work better with law enforcement? [[The president calls.]] The police are also concerned. I've asked a lot of questions, and I don't know if the senator will be able to answer them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u71	President. That was a series of questions and a short time to answer. I'll just start somewhere. When it comes to science - I may go there, it's so interesting -- then the main change that has occurred at this time is that it has always been thought, from the studies that were done in its time, and that's this famous study, the rat study, that we'll be on these drugs, i.e. that they were drugs and you would try them and just be dependent on drugs, and that's why drugs are devastating, and they need to be kept away from people. What we know today is that it's not the drug. You can have different people who are using different drugs, some becoming addicts, and others don't. It's because of people's circumstances, not the drug itself. It's science that is changing, i.e. how we know about addiction and what causes addiction, how it has changed, and how it must affect our legislation and how we will tackle this problem. If we really care to help reduce an addiction problem, we need to take it out of what addiction is and how we help people with addictions rather than out - of - date knowledge. The other questions: Of course, it is extremely important that we do the same, we need to increase prevention, and of course we need to expand our education and information, and we need to turn the system around so that instead of punishing people, we are helping them and giving help to share information on how and where people can turn for help. The point is, it is impossible to help someone who is not ready to receive help. It is also surprising that the person has come to a place where he is asking for help. [[The president calls.]] It is important that we be there to help when a person is ready and not before.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u72	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. Whether it has anything to do with science or not, it is published that about 20% of us become addicted, whether known as alcohol or drugs. I've never heard before that the person's identity is not the subject's own but, rather, his condition. I've never heard that before. On the other hand, I have heard that those who become addicted to drugs either do it because they have it geetian in their blood or have earned it by ingestion. But doesn't the senator worry about it, it didn't show in the senator's answer, what dosage is? Can the senator tell me? What is the amount of alcohol? The amount of material in the body that individuals tolerate varies greatly. If you do not drink or start drinking, you can tolerate much less, and so can you individually. One dose can kill people, that's just the way it is. Doesn't the senator worry about this? Hv. A senator also admitted that we must help those who are seeking help. I've often talked about and presented the subject, asked the highest. Healthcare Minister if we should not have the treatment so that people do not have to wait for more months, even one year after being treated. The window is very small and is ready to seek help through it, and help is needed. It's not a drug's legal system, I can't put the same symbol between them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u73	President. I don't quite understand why they always talk about using drugs. Nobody's legalizing drugs or drugs, we're not talking about it. It's just a whole different arm and a whole different discussion. I'm sure I'm ready for that discussion, but we're not discussing it right now. We're talking about giving up punishment for people who have rations. [[Up front.]] No. It's not a law. The law is a different thing. That's a rule order. I'm available for that discussion. The transfer dose is just a reference. It is stated in the Healthcare Minister's bill that it will be carried out in a regulation that is quite normal. The law on addiction and drugs is the regulation under which all illegal drugs are listed. It also allows some evaluation of what is considered an oral dose or not. Of course, it is not an exact science. It has more to decide where we're going to put the lines, about where we think they're coming out for sale rather than for personal consumption. I trust the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health, in consultation with consumers, to reach a good decision on this matter. I don't know what to say about this anymore -- he's not even listening anymore. [[The point is: He has stopped listening.]] I just hope we get started on the Committee. I hope we get started in this conversation. We must agree that punishment does not help, but we do not even agree on it. Where are we? It's a very strange place to be when we're talking about punishment being done. It is as if the State and the authority are some kind of friendly parent who is there to punish us just because of love. [[Up front.]] That's not true. Authority is not our parent, thank God.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u74	V.E.G. President. We'll talk to a bill at the highest. Health Minister for the delinquency of drug abuse. I could totally agree, if it was that simple, I'd sign for it. But to me it is not that simple. They have developed a lot of drugs, they are many and varied, as was the case in contrast with what I had before. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, can give the same dose that can kill one another. That alone is enough for me to be unable to bring into this situation. Besides, I can't bring it into this situation when there's no prior exposure to dosages. To say that it will be determined by a Regulation, which is likely to arise after this bill is approved, does not cover the gap, so I'm not concerned about it. I've been listening to talks, and much has been done. It is said, as shown in a bill report, other countries that have taken such a step, but better yet, no land, at least not as large as I've ever seen, has taken such a step on their own. Norway, all of this is more important, and it handles more substances than drugs. This is where the person treated with the dose is offered for treatment and so on, but not so that criminal abuse can be discussed. I would have liked to see a whole policy. I would have liked to see a bioavailability fixed by addiction treatments. We have hundreds of people on a waiting list. If it had been handled, I would have signed it right away. That's one of the priorities, I think, about the drug problem. In terms of the criminal record, I agree that it is very bad for young people who are addicted to drugs, or just for drug addicts, that they have a criminal record. There's something we need to deal with. Then I feel better about going somewhere where people would be given a chance to get their rights and not take advantage of the material as such. The question, however, is, Can criminal possession of an illegal substance be determined? I haven't had the answer to the question, if it's possible. It is also a question of how it relates to the constitution. There were mention of other countries here, e.g. Portugal. A review of one person shows that by reading the Portuguese route and reading the songs in Portugal themselves, this bill is not like the Portuguese route. If I quote this review, Mr. President's permission: ▪ The Portuguese law makes it clear that all consumption and use of drugs are forbidden. The shift in Portugal was not from crime to legal, but from crime to less crime and punishment aims for treating the individual. - If he wants to be treated. What changed is that if the person taken, and this shows what appeared in the previous minister's speech, has ten daily doses or less, drugs are confiscated and he or she is sent to a special committee in each rural society and is trying to obtain the individual for treatment. It is a three - man committee, a social worker, a psychiatrist, and a lawyer. The committee can fine people or punish them in a number of ways, e.g. use fines up to 150 euros, which accounts for about 30% of Portugal's minimum wage; disbarred job rights, e.g. doctors and cab drivers; forbid people to go to certain places or meet certain individuals; ban outland travel; take out persons's license; use the recording of property; stop payment from public institutions; obligation of individuals to meet the committee on a regular basis. If a person in Portugal is dependent on drugs, he may be sent to a treatment facility or obliged to provide community service and the committee considers it a better goal to keep lawbreakers on the straight path. It continues to list how this is done in Portugal, and it becomes evident that the bill that is being discussed today is completely different from that of Portugal. It's a huge leap to reduce the penalty for consumer doses and legalize them. As I first said in my speech, I would have liked to see that we were taking the whole case, but I wouldn't take it in such pieces as this. It would have been more meat on my bones because it's not as simple as the bill is about, certainly not to my mind. V.E.G. President. I was printing a talk a few years ago, whether it wasn't just last year or a meeting, and it says, by permission of a president: Evolution is a mental - altering product that can cause an increase in addiction. In many cases, the addiction factor has been increased in the production of more people into the network of addictions (e.g., it's the addiction factor for e.g. cannabis. This includes an increase in bipolar disorder in patients using cannabis and, in fact, other substances. A lot of discussions have been made about the use of drugs, and the person here has been discussing talks and publications for some years: A person who uses drugs for his own use and who is taken by the police can land a criminal record like we're worried about and there's no difference in that. Because of consumption and the fear of authority, it's possible to develop a gap between those who have problems with their lives. But what is the amount of alcohol? - asked the man who stands here a long time ago. - ▪ Drug users develop tolerance for their dose-sizes. A transfer dose of some substance that can be killed by one person. Surely it could not be acceptable if the use of drugs in drugs was illegal or penalized, if this is a fact. Being a minor makes the matter even more complex, so there is a need for more practical action to deal with this problem. There are global treatment measures, but the struggle to succeed has cost blood, sweat, and tears, and the cooperation with the State not been the same. This is best seen in the lists of some 600 hundred people over the years. - That's where I'm talking about the treatment center. The testing of other countries that have taken steps in criminal activity will reveal that the problem will be handled well. This is to say: Treatment must be open to those looking for it, often requiring more than one treatment to improve. The post-treatment follow-up of patients should be well monitored. The size of a patient's household is often out of control, and this is a major problem that is difficult to deal with but being taken step by step. - And psychological and psychological services, as well as prevention, are factors that are constantly developing. There may be a number of solutions, and there are both strengths and defects for most of them. The situation must be carefully assessed and chosen for which way or direction is best suited for local circumstances. The Covid epidemic was mentioned earlier in speech and answers and this epidemic, the drug epidemic. I've also said that after Covid struck them, when the whole world is underneath, what cohesion is strong, there's a lot of force between countries everywhere when there's such a disaster as the Covid epidemic and that countries that, as it has now been, can be incredibly successful. That's why I've compared it if countries could stick together, e.g. countries around us, the European countries, the North countries, and they put together strings in dealing with the problems we are discussing today, but not that each one takes his own course that does not involve success. I think we're going to have to go a lot slower on these matters and, as mentioned earlier, we're going to have treatments available, extra prevention and education. Prevention is a device that must always be held in hand. This has been demonstrated, we have seen it over the years, for example. with smoking, that you always have to repeat your mother. Happily, new and new children are always here, and these preventive measures need to be maintained. I wholeheartedly agree with the things which were spoken by him. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, that children are no idiots. But there is nothing involved in getting hooked on drugs. I got hooked on alcohol a couple of dozen years ago, and I don't think I'm a fool. The drug is not partial. But if this package was put in pictures rather than in such pieces as this, I'd be glad to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u75	A respectable president. There's a few things I'd like to talk to you about. A senator. First, I'd like to ask who. The senator's comment that the removal of the penalty for possession of consumer doses is somehow in opposition to the constitution. I wondered, " How can I cancel punishment or not do anything that can be punished against the constitution? ' I don't quite understand, so I'm gonna pray. A senator to explain it to me. I also hear what you're saying. A senator feels that there is something to do about possession of drugs, i.e. the fact that people are caught with a dose of consumption, that they need to do something about it. Hv. A senator would like to give the person a choice of treatment or such, if I understand a talk. A senator's right, and so we don't go on criminal record. I also heard that in a talk given by a young man. A senator says he has been addicted to alcohol himself. I wonder, if what. A senator asks himself: " Would that have helped me? A senator's challenge with drinking is the problem of having a criminal record? Would have helped him. A senator would have to pay high fines for being taken with alcohol on the street? Would have helped him. A senator seeking help if he had been punished by the drug he was addicted to and punished by using it in the community? If society had a bad attitude. A senator would be committing a crime with his use of alcohol, would have helped him deal with his problem, had he experienced that the community did not consider him to be as good a person because he was using material that had been excluded and banned in the community?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u76	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. So I would answer this question about what I read in the reviews, if it could be legalized that is illegally accepted, I wondered, " Can it be legalized? ' I can't go anywhere deeper into it. I don't remember a question number two.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u77	Whether it would have helped. If alcohol had been forbidden, a senator would be able to cope with the problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u78	- I don't think I've been wondering if it's legal or illegal that I've dropped into my mouth. I have a very hard time answering that question. I think it's very clear in my speech earlier that I'm not against the idea of helping people who use illegal drugs, I haven't said it at all, but I don't believe that the way they're going to help or do it the way they do it. That's why I repeat the question, What's a dose of consumption? That's what stands out in my case: What's the amount of consumption? That's why I'm not involved in this case, because I know that one dose that's enough to kill another.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u79	A respectable president. Alcohol can kill people, smoking can kill them too. Counts 'em out. A senator that it would be helpful to fight the serious effects of alcohol in the community, and a serious influence of smoking should a person forbid his consumption, fines, or other forms of smoking? It's what it is. A member of the council that it will reduce the use of alcohol and smoking to some extent and deal with the social problems that result from the use of alcohol and tobacco? That's what I was wondering. Otherwise, I just want to talk about it for a second. A senator speaks of an increase in drug abuse. Hv. A senator believes that this growth occurs because drug dealers somehow want people to get more addicted to the materials. But that is not the reason why we have seen an enormous increase in drug abuse. It's just very clear, and it's well known that the reason we see such an amazing increase in drug use is simply that in order to prevent drugs, a precise chemical combination of that substance has to be written down, and so it's forbidden. When one specific subject is banned, the market, a black drug - based market, adds one crystal, and some chemical composition. In that case, material is no longer forbidden at all. It can thus be sold out of the law. This is a side effect of illegal drug use. This increased production of different types of drugs is because drugs are forbidden. This amazing growth is called cystic effects. So they're like, if you shut down one gang that sells drugs here, there'll be other gangs. If you shut down one drug here, there'll be a new one. It just pops up over and over. The war against drugs has been going on indefinitely, but it has not worked. This increase in drug abuse has been on the grounds of the ban.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u80	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u81	V.E.G. President. I hear what you're saying. A senator is well versed in the underworld. But I was talking about there being 250 fabrics under there. What I was primarily talking about about about increased addiction to matter - I named cannabis - more addictions have been developed into the canabis, which, for example, increases. the risk of bipolar disorder. This has been increased by the individuals who consume cannabis.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u82	But are they not forbidden?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u83	- What does it matter if they're banned? The drug is the same.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u84	Why, then, do you resist allowing it?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u85	Hv. There's been a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u86	Yes, that's the way it is. President, that often when you're opposed to those of Porta's members, there's some sort of outback and a noose and traps set in such a way that the person is most mistaken. I don't think I can say it enough that I said it in my speech that I'm worried about this matter. I can't see that it tells the story that I want to punish. I never said that, just never. But I can't see that the procedure in this bill is doing what's expected of it. That's what worries me. I don't trust myself to answer these questions because they are in my mind an empty exit.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u87	A respectable president. I don't know what to say. I don't know what to say. A member of the Parliament or members of the Central Party in this regard. Looks like they're doing it themselves. Trouble. A senator's traps aren't Pirata's. He's at ease. A senator has a poor cause, and he gives the cause an extremely poor argument. There's a problem. Senator. When it comes to the fact that cannabis are banned and have become stronger and a variety of side effects because of the ban, there is no outback, a respectable president; it is merely a indication that we have been living with laws for decades, in which we have much experience, and experience is simply not good. There's a problem. A senator, the cause he's fighting for. But I have to say, I got a little confused over a speech. A senator because I felt that the logical support in the chapters was wrong and that, in particular, would be countering. A senator at the moment. paritaprevir Thorhl Ævarsdóttir Ahvarsdóttir. Hv. A senator said that he never said that he wanted to be punished for his consumption. I have to admit, I don't remember hearing what I heard. A senator calls for punishment for consumption. But eight o'clock. A senator does not agree that opposition to this bill is a call for punishment? The suggestion involves removing these punishments, so after each speech. The senator and the reasoning he gave in front of his conclusion, which is in my opinion wrong, I have to ask him why. A senator whether he approves of the case or not. He says he's against punishment, if I get it right, hopefully it's not some exit or trap, but he's against the bill. What's the reason, Mr. Honorable President? Is it the Central Party's policy to oppose matters just because they come from the government? Is that it? What's the matter, Mr. Honorable President? Why can't you sleep? When a senator says that he is in favor of its goals, does he not support the matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u88	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for who often gets a little confused when I think speeches. I'm just hoping I can dissuade the senator a little. I think I said that three or four times why I couldn't accept this case. This is because the amount of consumption is not revealed, and it is also said that it should be carried out in some regulations at once and if the case becomes legal. That's what stands out. I don't think we'd be happy about it, if and when this goes through and dosages come in some way defined, which I don't quite understand how to define, as my speech before, and it would occur that a person who eats a single dose breathes because of it. Then I don't think we'd be proud of having these things by the Council. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator must be able to agree with me. That's what I'm worried about. I don't know how many times I'm supposed to have to say it. If the senator doesn't understand, he's just going to have to live with that lack of understanding.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u89	A respectable president. The dark reality begins to dawn on me that I will not understand. However, I don't think that's the problem. I don't think it's the problem of misunderstandings, with all due respect. That's a bad argument. Hv. A senator mentioned two reasons why he was opposed to this bill. One is that the consumption dose should not be observed and this should be subject to the regulations. Then I'd like to ask. A senator: Is he really thinking that specific doses should be placed in law? Suppose the pattern of consumption was to change, that would decrease. Some long - term cannabis use three grams a day, let's say, and we're going to buy some amount of consumption from it, five days, ten days or what it is. Then, for some reason, the average intake will begin to decrease to one gram, so we would probably have to update the figure. Wants to play. A senator in real life has it in the law, so we had to start reasoning on some technical application at a council? This is exactly the type of technical implementation that belongs to a Regulation because this is something that changes, something that is very easily affected by new information or changes in the market. That's why. Thinks it over. Senator, is he in favor now? No. Hv. Another factor was the idea that a single dose of certain substances can kill. Hv. A senator is probably not talking about LSD or cannabis or mushrooms, or what's wrong. A senator talking about, is he talking about cestacy? Is it possible for him to look into the details of this evidence that we should punish those who use it? And by the way, let's say that someone takes a drug that can kill a single dose, no doubt there is, if it did happen after this law was accepted, count well. A senator that we should have rather punished the subject? Wants to play. Rather, the person who consumes too much is afraid to seek help? That's the situation today, a respectable president. Got it. A senator's better?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u90	President. It is clear that if the person breathes while taking a dose, he or she does not seek help. It's crystal clear. And how better it is to be shown in a Regulation what is an intake dose and what is not, why can't it just be shown in the bill? If this is to be varied - should it vary from person to person, or should it vary in time or evolution? I don't know what's different. The degree to which each person can cope with drugs varies greatly.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u91	For example.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u92	Yeah. Then you have to know what the dose is. [[Up front.]] It's not on the bill, and that's why I can't accept it. I don't know how many times I'm supposed to have to answer this, tops. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u93	Mr. President. The drug problem is one of the most serious problems we are dealing with in our community and is affecting very many consumers, addicts, and all of our partners. In my decades'work with law enforcement and the police, I often became tangiblely aware that the struggle that addicts struggle with their illness is truly a struggle for life and death, indeed. All too many fall into that fight. This is serious, Mr. President. Here we will discuss so-called criminal consumption doses that are physically involved in making purchases and obtaining certain quantities of narcotics, which are actually not defined in the bill, but are expected to be more clearly defined in the Regulation. Mr. President. I think this bill is ill prepared and thoughtless, and I will argue here in my speech. The bill is completely out of the picture with the help and help that should be given to addicts, drug addicts. If a bill like what we're talking about here, there should also be resources for the police, whatever duties or jobs she would be when she interferes with drugs over heads that have doses under these limits. There is absolutely no reason for me to know the whole context of this bill, it's thrown here without criminality to take drugs and it has nothing to do with it, not the health show, the law enforcement factor, the assistant or the advice show. That's not part of it. This is totally out of proportion with all that should come with this bill. That's why I can rightly call it advertising. It's mainly advertising, no matter how we feel about this bill on our own. This is advertising because the bill has nothing to do with anything that should go with a careful bill of this kind, the help, the treatments, and other things. It's not here. I haven't seen it. I did a little research on the reviews that have been received in similar cases. First of all, when this matter was introduced in a government conference earlier this year, such as. One review from the chief of police in the capital area that's slightly involved. With the permission of the president, I read the review of the so - called primary assessment: A further statement is found in the document, which states: "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The original assessment document - ◯ The design of the project has not been planned. This is exactly what I'm talking about. It doesn't have anything to do with it. This is combat, Mr. President, advertising. Then it says that the bill is already valid and not expected to be affected by lawmakers will require long periods of time to prepare and adapt. No preparation. All persons involved in these matters; caregivers, health care services, law enforcement, do not include the advice. They're not part of the plan. They have only a short time to prepare. It's only supposed to go through, Mr. President. That's why I call it advertising. Now I'm reading, Mr. President: The conditions needed for legislation to be successful include a reduction in the number of criminal cases due to minor drug crimes and a measure of results and results from a reduction in fines/judges due to a reduction in drug abuse. Also, it has not been considered to draw data to assess the results in the future. It is similar with what happened in January when this was presented: The church suggests that limited jobs have been carried out in preparation for this vast project, which it is indeed, Mr. President - ◯ which does not lie merely to the changes in the law. In Norway, for example, major major policy projects have taken place in connection with a review of drug and drug abuse issues in that country. For example, on March 23, 2018, a committee of ten was established, with the task of reviewing legislation and molding a policy in these areas. The commission returned a report to the Ministry of Health and Justice on December 19, 2019, and considers the report to be more than 400 pages. The committee consisted of a cross-cutting group of experts and was consulted by a number of institutions, organizations, and other stakeholders during this work by the Committee. Then, Mr. President says: A more significant part of the Committee suggests that protection from consumers will no longer be punished, but police, which in the meantime, will be permitted to stop its use if they detect it and confiscate the materials. - We're going another way. Instead, consumer-sized employees are obliged to attend a community service meeting where they will be offered instruction and assistance. What will we discuss with our communities? What's the agreement with the police with this? But it says here: At the same time, the Committee suggests that prevention work will be greatly improved and treatment options will be increased. [...] There was an example, following the law No. 48/2020, about a change in addictive and drug law No. 65/1974 (addiction), to define in Regulation what constitutes an oral dose to be applied to users in drinking space. The rules have not yet come to light. In the Treaty of the Regulation, it was difficult to define what constituted a consumer dose and will therefore not be different in considering the limits to which to take into account criminal consumption doses. There's no planning. It's in an image, Mr. President. It's an odd thing. Finally, I read: Its products, as mentioned earlier, are important. Therefore, the chief of police in the capital area encourages a comprehensive policy work programme, pointing out the work done by the Norwegian government over the past few years, to prepare and general review of planned changes before the bill of a change in law of No. 65/1974, for addiction and drugs, it will be submitted. So many words, Mr. President. Flap score. But it's supposed to go through with the council and drive through a striped bill, unprepared, poorly prepared. Then we come to the size of the dose. I'm certainly not going to make it that the main subject of my speech, just speaking out of my own experience. If consumers are accused, e.g. for the possession of products for sale, they therefore insist that it is intended for its own consumption. It's basically no matter what dose you use, unless there's an enormous amount, there's always your own consumption: 10 grams - your own consumption, 30 grams - your own consumption, 50 grams or 70 grams - your own consumption. It's not really anything, it's only natural for people to go through disaster and to endure much, and it's only natural for them. If taken with 50 grams they say, e.g.: I'm going to use this tonight, I'm going to a party, I'm going to use it tomorrow too. That's it. This is real life, huh? Pirati San Frafn Gunnarsson. This is reality. It's like this. Men always reach as far as they can, normal. I'm not gonna make any comments. I'm only going to read from the company's reviews, not to the bill as it appears on the consultation notice or at the presentation of the coming bill, but to the bill submitted here at the last council and adopted. Pirate Congregation. I read this review from the head of Iceland's police department, which is not about this bill, but the first: The bill does not define the amount that can be considered for personal use, who should define it or how, nor what criteria should be based. All consumption doses of narcotics and narcotics are then expected to be permitted without any distinction between drug and drug use. These products have very different hazards, their strength may vary considerably depending on whether it is a purified substance or mixed for consumption. From 1 gram of pure material, in some cases tens of doses may be made. At that time, the amount of alcohol taken varies from type to type, as well as whether it is the major drug users. Then the bill does not reveal the consequences and consequences of having more than one drug in its possession. If a person takes a dose of ◯ of many types of drugs, a lot of drugs will soon be involved. This was from the company's review of the previous bill and shows some of the problems we face when deciding which of these consumptions to be, when deciding how many grams, etc. There should be. Depending on the materials, it depends on consumers, etc. Also, it is the law enforcement problem when men are taken with perhaps a few species. What, then, should you do if all of this is combined with food doses, since the whole component may be very high? Once again, I'd like to point out that we're looking at a bill that's completely neglected, it's thrown out here as some dream project in behalf of the people who see this world with the sunglasses they see this tremendous problem. I'm not going to belittle him, I'm not going to belittle the drug problem we are fighting and have fought for decades, and there seems to be a slight delay. Of course, like others, you could. The speakers have at times come to see here as a first step toward reducing the penalty, reducing the offenses, checking what is being done on the criminal record, etc. Actually, it's not going to go to criminal records until we're up to 100,000 dollars. so that these little doses do not have a criminal record. So do the way it's removed from criminal record. There has always been a thorn in my eyes as a former police officer with these young kids taken with relatively small amounts of drugs, indeed, that they are being pursued for years. So, when these kids have become hired citizens and want to learn a flight or go to the police, it's a stop to them and, of course, it's very rough. I would feel that we were good at trying to turn away from the practice that some boyhood failure is after people like this, as if these fractures are often doing, and many other offenses that I could also give long speeches. You could discuss it, and I'd be the first to participate. Something else I wasn't going to talk about very much is a uptake of chemicals or a maintenance. The police would not be allowed to hold these materials if they were involved with people who had these defined consumption rations. Of course, it's a little strange, and it's unusual that these chemicals are brought here to land or produced on land and truly illegal, unless it's just the consumers that come, but at some point it's illegal, i.e. in the manufacture or when the amount is transferred into large doses, but the police are not allowed to handle or absorb the material. - I'm running out of time, I'm surprised, I'm barely halfway there. I think I need to get back on the rosary. I thought I had a long time and I've barely begun. But I may be in another speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u94	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. In view of this talk, a senator, in the form of a rather simple question: Away from this bill, there is why. A senator of the opinion that consumption doses are to be punished?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u95	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. If there are little doses, I believe there should be no punishment or punishment, yes. But I believe the government has to approach this project in a much more comprehensive way than it does here. I'm not talking about doing this with what this bill shows, both the consultation and the preparation and the integration of the work of all the parties involved, such as health care professionals, law enforcement officers, therapists, etc. Of course, I could imagine that when drug addicts land in the hands of the police, she should be allowed to lay hold of the materials, but then the addict or consumer might have a choice for such a thing as this. whether he brings the penalty route, i.e. paid some fines, or whether he would accept treatment or advice or anything like that. I could imagine a system like that. But this bill, which is all alone, is not expected to be at least There's no bill involved, so I haven't seen it. But that we're taking something holistic on this, society. This is a problem. We agree on that, me and what. Senator. This is a problem. I was going to read up the statistics from Portugal and the Netherlands that show that when criminal abuse takes place, the consumption is increasing. [[The president calls.]] It's growing for young people, both in Portugal and the Netherlands. [[The president calls.]] I was going to read it up here, but I didn't have time to do it, maybe later.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u96	A respectable president. I find it a little difficult to understand why. A senator feels that it is necessary to look to the penitentiary in any other context if at any other level, he feels that having little or no dose is to be punished. Don't worry about it. The senator said that if the punishments are small enough or no charge for consumption doses, will it cause people who now have problems and who do not seek help? If that's the reason. A senator's concern for them underscores the need to first and immediately avoid crime because today's law clearly means that people should seek help, which must be the same as simply shutting down a treatment area or a longer waiting list. The effect is the same, it's negative. There can be no disagreement that such an effect is negative. Or worry what. The senator said that by making these little doses penniless or criminally, will there be an explosion of drug abuse, a recent explosion? At the end of his final talk, a respectable president, he suggested that his research be taken to the highest level. The minister of health has repeatedly referred to him. Likely, they are somehow wrong with research. This has not been shown to result in significant increases in the incidence of drug abuse or in the possession of drug abuse. I wondered, " What exactly is the cause? ' A senator is concerned, and to what extent is that a causal relationship does not underscore the very importance of being involved in this change, regardless of whether we also promote prevention and treatment, I believe that it is a concordance to do so, and that has actually been done. We'll be fine, for example. Very well for prevention, if that's the case. I'm going to understand. A senator left with this question.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u97	President. I thank you again for the questions. Yes, I'm all in favor of this by preordaining that this will be good and done by a host, in conjunction with the actions of all parties, such as law enforcement, health care and care providers, as I told you before. If this is done as they say in the bill, I fear that a general warning effect would bring it - it has been discovered in Portugal and the Netherlands, and it is seen in the numbers I was going to go over earlier but did not give time to increase the consumption among the young people. And if drugs increase, the number of people who have serious drug problems increases, since it is known that there is always a certain number of consumers who have serious drug problems. If we grow that group, we will have to deal with serious drug problems in our country. We have to be in a position to accept and care for them. We're on the road, huh? A senator who I'm afraid is gonna put us in a bad situation because we're wrong about this. We're just going to put this out on our own, to take it off. And this general warning effect, as soon as it becomes accepted in the community that you can use drugs, some grams, it will encourage, push, and lead to the fact that even more youths and young people will try these subjects, people who would otherwise not do so and who have been troubled by it and who have not wanted to come near those who may be testing them. We'll get more junkies. I'm not ready to accept this if there's no action on this bill, which it doesn't seem to do. [[The president calls.]] There are no other actions involved. I think it's necessary, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u98	Mr. President. In recent years much has been said about changes in law and order in Iceland associated with drugs. The policies Iceland use in this category are so - called inhibitory policies. They are used in our neighboring countries and in most Western lands. If a person takes drugs no matter how low the dose is, the criminal record will be broken for three years, but still there are seven years of violations of public law that remain open for seven years after a criminal record. I'm sure, Mr. President, I'd say, to rethink this law. There is no need to follow people for years if they have lost weight in this regard and are minor. Subjects who receive a dose of consumption are sentenced to pay a fine or to serve as community service. In the event of a fatal fracture, prison rods are used. Mr. President. I don't think the public is in favour of the policy of legalizing drug abuse in this country, as this health minister says. I believe that there are other treatments for drug users to be taken, increasing education, and a significant increase in prevention. It is important to help those who abuse drugs and to make sure that they will get the help they need if they want it. This bill often introduces the word for crime, which is now a mere vocabulary, but it is one of the words the government uses to put matters in a beautiful costume, as if she used a pregnancy break instead of an abortion. A criminal debate does not exactly have one particular international meaning, but it includes adjusting whether conduct is considered to be a punishment or not. Something that was that kind of crime isn't anymore, but it's not legal either. The criminal abuse of drugs means that it is no longer criminal by law to have drugs used in its own way, a dose that is undefined, and no one really knows how big it really is. There's no talk of it in this bill. The crime will no longer have a criminal record. In most cases it is lawful to buy, own, and consume the drugs. The difference is that by taking drugs legally, they would be treated as alcohol or cigarettes. Sales and distributions would be permitted and taxed, but they would likely have to meet certain conditions, such as buyers' ratings, sales regulations, and the like. That's the difference between delinquency and legal action. Mr. President. What is the objective of this bill? If it is also health care, is it not health care to take drugs from people? You ask yourself that question. The bill assumes that the police do not have any authority or obligation to make drugs, so - called consumers, confiscated. Here, for example. to go beyond that in Norway, as shown on page 18. Seven on the bill. You ask yourself, " Do we Icelanders always have to go beyond other peoples? ' Walk further in the legal process of drugs, abortion, the best service for the trustees, so the group's expenses will be out of control, etc. The family of drug addicts is most often the class that opposes the use of drugs. People around those who use drugs; family, friends, and nearby society feel that if the consumer has been legalized, they lose their power to interfere. They want to continue to punish anyone who is involved in drug abuse, whether it is the offer or the demand, because they believe that it will prevent further drug abuse. They do not feel that it is enough to punish just the individuals who offer the drugs. By punishing by the law of those who partake of the drugs by either imprisonment or by placing the individual on a criminal record, they feel that it is safe to prevent young people from testing the materials. Young people are at high risk because when they get on a drug, they can quickly spread among themselves because younger ones are not aware of the dangers of the substances. It must therefore be possible to establish a law order on their consumption. Also expensive for society to treat, and those using drugs often require more medical attention than those who do not use them. Those who oppose the ideologies displayed in this bill feel that by forbidding consumption by law, this additional cost to society can be prevented. Another argument against legalizing the use of drugs is that individuals who are affected by drugs can harm other people, whether they are someone on the street or a family member. It's coming even. ... in a BA study of Lísbet Grönvaldt Björnsdóttir of the University of Akureyri. In other words, research has revealed this in the case of those who abuse drugs. Substances are harmful, e.g. cocaine and amfetamine may cause a heart attack or stroke. Ecstasy or E tablets are toxic to the brain and cause memory loss and LSD may cause permanent psychosis. It's all known. Because of illegal drugs, many people are afraid of them, and this helps to keep many away from the danger. Therefore, dosing should not be legalised. Those who use drugs should not be legally allowed to do so, since they do not reason, are conscious of harming themselves, and therefore cannot make the right decisions about their consumption. This is the opinion of a prominent professor in this field at the University of Rice, U.S.A. Mr. President. I'd like to be at the end of here to mention only the relativity of the Independence Party and the forward party in this serious matter. This is a administrative bill, a bill from the government in which an independent party and a forwarding party are involved. It is therefore presented with the support of these classes. A few years ago, during a discussion of these matters at this council, the senators were the only ones who didn't agree with other members of Congress on the need for change. They thought that it was enough to take more drugs out in Iceland and increase prevention. Today, the forwarding squad, which long fought drugs and had its policy in doing Iceland free of drugs, is going to go to legalize drugs and forbid the police to confiscate drugs. It's different before, Mr. President. In this discussion, only one candidate of the Agency has participated in this discussion, following the legal process of drug abuse. Then it is the Independence Party, which once served as a conservative class, was a guardian of law and order in the country. The object of the Independence Party is very interesting in this matter. In fact, it is the independent group that takes the initiative in this bad situation. It was in Reykjavík over six years ago at a meeting of young lndependence Association in Reykjavík that Kristján Þór Júlíusson, then health minister, declared that he had doubts about drugs. Kristján said, with President's permission: I'm very impressed with the belief that we should try to take advantage of these matters. This proclamation was referred to as the minister of the Independence Party as a landmark declaration. No member of the Independence Party has participated in this discussion. Nobody. I specifically describe them here. I'd like, for example. At the right time. paritaprevir Hermes the Brynjar of Níelsson would now be seen in the chamber. The Independence Party has failed in this case, as did so many others, Mr. President, as if he failed in the abortion case, a group that once fought against abortion. Mr. President. It's a bad bill, and the media is against it. It is sending bad messages into society by legalizing drugs, drug uses that are illegal to import into the country, and it is illegal to sell. This bill is creating more problems than we fix.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u99	A respectable president. I feel compelled to do this for one particular thing that I feel must be done. You see, I noticed in a talk a lot. paritaprevir The winners of Sigmundur's Davíð Gunnlaugsson said that he had never seen drugs, as he calls them, or consumed them, because they are illegal. Then said why. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson, second member of the Central Party, to the point. A senator of Pirata would be well acquainted with the underworld or something like that, well in the underworld, as he put it. You see, I've noticed one respectable president, as per the fact that illegal drugs are illegal in Iceland, that it's decided, of course, to admit that you have some personal experience, some personal sense of them. But that's just how it is in our community, a respectable president, that it's easy to get or take drugs without being noticed. It's just no problem, a respectable president. And when people get into trouble with their consumption, they usually have been in a drug habit that has not been affected until that point. It is relatively rare for people to face some marvelous drug - abuse problems. It is likely that they will be used moderately and without any negative impact on life at any time before the person loses control of his or her life and starts to have a negative impact on life to be counted. I'm still going to admit it here, more dignified President, that I've seen drugs. I've seen a lot of drugs, and I've seen people take these drugs, and I've been there an incident where people have been in danger. I have personally seen that people are driving back to seeking help because they fear the police. I think more people here at the council have the same experience and I dare not talk about it for fear of being labeled so well in the underworld or something like that, but, a respectable president, it's just that a lot of people in this community have more sense on drugs because of personal experience than they do. The members of the Central Party, who speak as though it were noble not to know the language of the group. That's not a noble, respectable president. It's not noble to use drugs either, but it's not noble not to have knowledge of the material we're making laws about. I just wanted to make this happen because I think it's a feature of the media discussion that he has extremely little knowledge of the subject. Today's objections have repeatedly shown that they are surprised or have been taught something in reply that is not new and that does not surprise anyone, who even has a theoretical grasp of the subject. I'd also like to mention, I'm not saying that it's necessary to have a drug or to have seen it, or to have seen someone use it, or something like that, in order to know what it is. I'm just saying that it's not noble not to have the facts. It's not noble, it's not admirable. There is not something to stand up and clap and make the person feel as if he is somehow better equipped to make important decisions for the civilian who is faced with the choice to use or not to use drugs. I'd like to commend the highest. A health minister for putting this matter to work. Over the years, I have often criticized the left movement, but I admire seeing how a personality awakening has taken place in the community, so that groups that are classified as conservative as the left movement and the Independence Party and even his forward party, or any individual members, can see the light of these substances. It is a progressive step, and it should be Thanks to the fact that, as we do know, people may not likely change their mind when they engage in a discussion or hear a new story or a new source of evidence. But it is a joy to see that this is so. It is a joy to see that the Central Party is needed to contradict this case, that the Central Party is alone in opposition, far more visible, with this case here at the General Assembly. It is an improvement to have to look for it a long way in order to avoid this matter, although, in fact, much of the criticism of the party has turned to the exports and technical issues such as whether there is anything in the Regulation or in the law, whether there is a plan for treatment and prevention, which is all the talk worth taking. Although I could repeat earlier talks about how the government sometimes handles matters and makes them theirs, I have to tell you in my own way, in this matter, that it's totally indiscriminate to me. To me, the victory is won because it is relatively undisputed, is no longer radically at least, as it seemed, 2013, and that it actually looks so that we will achieve this case at this assembly. That's why I'm celebrating and thanking again to the highest. Secretary of health.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u100	Mr. President. I was only going to talk about law enforcement in terms of the legalization of the drugs we're dealing with here. I wondered about the police, as the bill looks, which is hard work and stands totally alone. I wondered what a series of events you're starting with this bill if it becomes a law. I'm worried about this case from the police perspective. From her perspective, all control of drug sales will become more difficult. In this way, consumers will wave material into the front of a police officer who is left out of control, normally. We also realize that if this happens to be legal, drug abuse will take place in public. Of course, the traders, salesmen of toxic substances, will hide among the consumers. It is well known, Mr. President, that those who start with relatively harmful drugs tend to get bored, some of them, into dangerous substances that sometimes kill them. I'm going to read more from the authority of the Police Department, only to continue with it, with the salesmen and consumers. This is a review sent over a previous bill, not this bill. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ Not always light is the line between consumers and sellers. He who sells drugs is often a consumer too. Drug dealership often means that the sellers carry a small amount of narcotics that could fall within the limits of consumer dosages. It may be difficult to prove that the assets are for sale, and it is fined for possession of drugs rather than for sale. This is the real issue. Maybe it's the law's problem, if it's the law. The problem's gonna be big. So continues the review of the police director: In this country, the drug prevention needs to be taken care of. Children and adolescents must be protected by a strong, progressive program of education. Finally, the problem needs to be made if basic changes are to be made in the drug administration of the country. Iceland's police director's office agrees with this bill's approval, as it was submitted in a similar way during the last council. Then there is the fact that the use of smaller doses of drugs by police often leads to the revealing of larger cases, such as a news report in a ml.is, where police in the South laid hold of two grams of cannabis for a man living in the South. Then the matter was investigated, as clues as to man's distribution of material. In this connection the individual's financial analysis was made, and it is now estimated that in about two years some 20 billion have. K. Through accounts linked to man, outside pay and other explained payments. Reports from the South Police Department show this. The police would have a problem with this. She'd lose control. She would lose her chance to stop the merchants of death, stop drug dealers. She would lose important resources and I was going to finish -- Yes, I've had my time over again. [[The president calls.]] I was going to review the statistics from Portugal and the Netherlands that increase drug abuse among the youngest has since the removal of the substances. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u101	Mr. President. I want to thank you for the excellent discussion that has taken place on the health secretary's bill at 1st. There's been a lot of things going over, and I'm not going to repeat what has been said about drug exports and other factors that can be expected to become complex in implementation. But there are four highlights I wanted to come in. There's been a lot of discussions here today about not punishing patients. To be sure, there is no better way to cope with patients than to punish them by imprisonment, for example. However, the fact is that I am convinced that there are many who are in prison for having the amount of drugs involved in this matter at some time will be defined as being preconceivable. If it is patients, those who suffer from drug abuse, drugs that we would like to meet, and improve the environment, I would feel much more reasonable to get a legal right to an individual who is not a prosecutor if a medical record or a criminal record indicates that there is a sick person involved. There are a lot more out there who will be affected by this changing rule work than those we talk about as patients in this context. There are those who earn a living to sell drugs, drugs; such persons will, of course, become in a much better position, and they will probably increase when so - called consumption doses need to be divided down to more pockets. I'm not sure that the will of the council will stand to ease such demands on the struggle to survive. If there is real desire to improve the lives of those who are patients because of this, we should use them in a different way than this. One way, which I just want to go straight to the highest. In the case of a welfare committee, would there be some sort of application that the prosecutor had far more available sources than is now available to drop the charge with the argument that a medical history or criminal record is suggesting that a sick person is involved but is not allowed to pass the line. I think that would improve the approach. It is, of course, so that only material is illegal is power. We all know that. This does not change the fact that while something is illegal, drug and drug abuse will continue, as if there are always people who drive their car faster than the maximum speed measured. However, it has the power to reduce the law of law, as if it had the power to determine the maximum velocity in Iceland's road system. Fortunately, most drivers look to the speed at which the speed is maximum rather than the gas level. I think the prohibition would make it easier for many people, whether at parties in town or elsewhere, not to try, not to start messing with. I think there's support that a lot of people, especially young people, can do. I also think, with the suggestions presented here, that there is a great lack of a general view of the matter. The main factor here is to look at the punishment factor, to legalize so - called consumer dosages, which, however, do not have the magnitude and must vary from person to person if you see how this happens in real life. For example, it's been over the numbers and information from Portugal and Norway, and I think it's all about the same well, i.e. that the matter is far too unconcerned. I hope that the welfare committee will take this part in a particularly thought - provoking manner. What I would particularly like to mention, in terms of my view that the matter is not overall considered, is that if there is a real engagement to go this way, it is not acceptable to me unless, at the same time, there are various countermovements, regarding the access of those who experiment with or become involved in such matters as counseling and medical services after an incident. It is a work that we know quite well, and it is an example of the fine work being done under the hat of the U.S.A. There are these things that I think must introduce at the same time if this route is gone, because I have understood in the way of the discussion today that this is the way in countries that have increased freedom, in case freedom should be called, in this context, have legalized these dosages. I think a welfare committee must consider if such a case doesn't have to be reasoned with such a case as this if it comes during the day that the council is in such a way, and this must not become some sort of piece of bone that may eventually have the only real purpose in making it easier for a cannabis intake that many have reasoned that there is a reason to worry about. I reiterate what I said before, there are other ways to protect those we can think of as ill because of their consumption. There are pathways that turn even. to make room for a release from the prosecution. It's a little bit like childhood shock, if we call it that, now it's a criminal record. One way would be to make it easier to clean up the criminal record. Although I'm not ready to make a transfer of it here in a pontta, I'm sure it can be implemented in a way that will encourage the guards, for the young people who have come into that position, to deviate from that path. I reiterate that this cannot become a blocked highway for the increased consumption of cannabis in society. This is what I wanted to propose here at 1st. I hope, therefore, that the welfare committee will take special note of my suggestions on taking other steps to protect the sick in this context. It will be interesting to see how the matter comes back into the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u102	Mr. President. It has been very interesting to observe the discussion on this subject in the Assembly Hall here today. The foundation of this matter can be said to be pure-bred, purebred. Holy shit. The senator after the other has come up here to show how cool and well along on the notes. We may naturally be grateful, the Middle Class Piers, that the Pirates have come here in length to tell us how much they know about these matters and that we are completely out on the subject. It got out of nowhere. A senator who takes the requirement to be the director of the truth, having the Messiah's authority, would have been somewhere where drugs had been taken and seen many species, and I don't know what, and it would be no problem to get drugs in Reykjavík. Of course, it's not easy to get drugs in Reykjavík. The one here is the father of two boys who are now in mid - life, and it was no problem when they were young to get drugs in Reykjavík, which was easier than to get out of alcoholic beverages. Nothing has changed in itself. This matter reminds me a little of the free gift given to the entire body of alcoholic beverages. Then, suddenly, she was spared her patents, but the small sale continued in it. It's the other way around. Now the entire drug trade is not permitted, but as soon as it is settled into subsidiary units that do enough for one person, punishment for it is no longer possible. Speaking of punishment, Mr. President. I've said this before, when similar cases have fallen in through the hatch, that the punishment that has now been for a fairly reasonable amount of cannabis, for example, refers to the amount of money men are fined for being at a speed of 110 miles up here at Kjalarnes. It's been observed by a number of people here today, including We Middle-class members who have spoken up, that we are willing to reduce the punishment for these offenses so that they do not hang over young people long into their lives. We are, therefore, completely without the first violations of criminal record and any violations of a criminal record that will ever be exonerated. This has been shown to be the case. It has also been said and correctly stated that consumer doses are not marked in the bill. Turn to the mind, Mr. President, one of the most famous drug arrests in the future. It is when Paul Mccartney was taken in Japan for bringing in marijuana in 1980. The pit was then, along with its wife and band, starting a band tour of Japan and carrying only half a pound of marijuana in the luggage, i.e. 220◯230 par. He told the truth: This is a ration for me and my wife, who planned to be in Japan for a week or what it was. But it was bad for the men because he was thrown into prison for nine days, and this half pound of marijuana was confiscated. Actually, I have to agree with my partner, okay? paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason, who is likely the senator of this council who has the greatest experience with law enforcement. He has warned that police authority to confiscate doses is canceled or, at best, blurred, and that's bad news. I feel somehow that the bill is opening up a reef that no one knows what's gonna be, and there are no measures taken to deal with what might be promised, to poor significance, to the worst picture. There seems to be no attempt on the bill to assume that there could be a worse outcome than the target. We know that it is the exact same with these substances as with other substances that the increased supply causes more consumption. To tell you the truth, I think it's a disgrace for what's happened. Marty's senators are trying to downplay it when you're like a dog. paritaprevir Sigurdrund Páll Jónsson, reporting on his experience with addiction - the Sigurður Páll has worked with SÁVE for decades and knows the consequences of addiction very well - that people should come here and almost enjoy it when he is making this presentation in earnest. I don't think that's an offer, Mr. President. I must say so. But that's enough. There's a chance here at 2nd. About., and then, hopefully, the most ills will have been tailored to this matter, to go through the matter carefully for a team, and to consider a matter which is, as I say, into the shallow populian, which is in the ground of evil work, ill - intentioned and ill - mannered. It won't bring us luck or honor here at this council if this case continues, and I won't talk about it so fast, through the council. That's why I believe it. I want to believe it, Mr. President. A well - being committee and those who appear to the committee on the basis of this matter may be able to turn the matter on a better course, but it is now on as it is prepared. I reiterate that we members of the Central Party are not glamorized, but we try to use our power of reason, and we try to learn from our experience. This was a question of how much drug experience they had, so the fine man standing here had 11 years to stand alongside police and customs on a border. Thus, I am well - acquainted with drug abuse, as are its consequences. This bill has a careless attitude. It's this kind of thing that's gonna work out, but unfortunately, I don't believe it's gonna work out. I have faith that this can be disastrous, so the bill needs to be changed for the better so that it can be passed through the council how it will be done on our part in the Middle Ages.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u103	A respectable president. I recommend here for a bill to legalize the Narcotics Act, No. 65/1974, industrial mode. This bill is composed of a group of personnel appointed by health ministers in June 2020 to review the law of No. 65/1974 in terms of industrial mode culture and production. The results of the work group were to bring administration and tasks related to the issue, i.e. permission to import the seeds of a species of Cannabis sativa, i.e. Heat seed, from the Institute of Drug Administration to Food Agency. It should be noted before continuing that the bill is not about the so-called CBD oil or its treatment. In the spring of 2020, Iceland was the first time allowed in import, treatment and prevention of seeds of this species in order to grow industrial quality. The requirements for the import of the seeds are three kinds and are set out in the regulation on addictive and drug use and other control materials. The requirements are that the THC levels of the seeds be recorded, register of the European Commission list, and that the requirements of monitoring of the seed products are met. These conditions are supported by the laws on addiction and drugs, but under the implementation of the Regulation it was decided to set up a team of workers assigned to revise the laws in terms of production and production of industrial activity. In accordance with local requirements of the European Medicines Agency's legislation on addictive and drug abuse, those seeds that can be used in industrial breeding must be introduced and must begin to apply for an expanded request to the National Competent Authority, the role of this institution is primarily to monitor the import, export, possession and other treatments for pharmaceutical, legal and illegal materials, while at the same time providing food monitoring and certification for plant health in import of plants and plant products, as well as monitoring of seedy products. Therefore, control of plant culture, including industrial modes, cannot be expected to occur in the field of activity of the European Medicines Agency. Therefore, this bill suggests that projects related to industrial disaster will be brought to the Food Agency, where industrial disasters are not addictive or drug abuse, but crops. Furthermore, it is suggested that the Commission be transferred and tasks related to the importation and monitoring of the seed of the species from the European Medicines Agency to the Food Agency. A respectable president. By means of the bill recommended here, a new law will be added to Article 2. It's the law to do what's left of a fourth. 2.g. if the Food Agency is allowed to allow the import of the specified seeds, but should allow this to be subject to the requirements for which agrienvironment schemes are intended. It is suggested that seas and agricultural ministers receive this role as industrial quality control and management services are more closely affected by the design of the plant. In the Regulation, agrienvironmental Minister shall require the granting of the import of the specified seeds and shall include: there is a closer requirement and limitation of the import, treatment and possession of seeds covered by the bill. The protocol should also support the ability of the Food Agency to perform tasks, including Regarding plant health, a search for other governments for applicants on the license and authority of the person for the sale of the farm. Under the Regulation, the Food Agency will have the responsibility to supervise the import of seeds due to industrial modes culture, i.e. to ensure that all imported seeds are determined by a joint EEA file. The bill was made up by a group of personnel, consisting of members of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Employment and Development, the Institute of Medicine and Food. The bill also consulted the EEA, the Ministry of Justice and the Chief of Police in the capital area. The bill was published on February 4 paragraph. Six reviews were received, taking into account the reports that indicated not to rule out breeding. It is not expected that the bill will carry additional expenses for the state's budget and will not be expected to change the income-side. A respectable president. I have explained the fundamental factors of the bill and allow myself to suggest that the bill be after the 1st. Pointed to why. The welfare committee and the 2nd Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u104	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct a law of law No. 87/2018, for generators, and for electric cigarettes refills. The bill was written at the Ministry of Health in order to set clear sources for sale, marketing, and use of nicotine products and to submit them to electricity laws and electric refills. Recent losses have been received by the Ministry of Health for nicotine pads, asking questions about their legal environment and possible legal rights and their marketing. The Council has also received information from national monitoring agencies that have described the problems of such products in the current legal environment. This is because it is a product that may contain some amount of nicotine, which is thought to be an addictive substance. Here, it is important that both immigrants and sellers of nicotine have called for rules to be put on such products. It is therefore important that nicotine products that are marketed and available in Iceland apply clear rules. Children have also been shown to have taken such products, but this can result in poisoning if nicotine levels are high. It is important to ensure the health and safety of children with clear rules on how to market such products. The bill suggests that the safety of the defenses and the meaning will be in the hands of the Nite Owl, but from October 1st. it will be in the hands of the Housing and Mobilization Agency that the same rules as the age requirements for buying and selling nicotine products as they are used for electric products and filling them, so that only persons 18 years of age and older will be allowed to buy and sell nicotine products. It is suggested that nicotine root text or word pictures are prohibited and may be especially appealing to children and young people, e.g. with image decorations or slogans and with the potential to encourage nicotine consumption, as with electric cigarettes and refills. If the bill legalizes, the directive for maximum nicotine strength will be set up in nicotine products and, therefore, the work will be looked forward to the effect nicotine can have on a person. In this regard, care should be taken to ensure that the uptake of nicotine from product products is not greater than is obtained from the maximum allowed concentration in electricityic fluid, i.e. 20 mg/ml, according to current battery and refill laws. There is evidence to suggest that the use of generators with nicotinic pads was reduced and, in the same way, there is a reduction in the use of the ATVR, which seems to indicate that the use in this field is changing. It is important to feel that children and young people start using and harassing nicotine products, for example, that children have suffered from toxic effects after taking nicotine, as mentioned earlier. A recent study has also shown that 1 out of 10 students in grade 10 use nicotine pads. It is therefore suggested by the bill that nicotine products are not to be sold in schools and other places designed for the social, sports, and leisure activities of children and young people and at health institutions and other health services. Also forbidden to advertise nicotine products or show their consumption in advertising. The law's prohibition on the performance of the lips at retail sites will also include nicotine products, which means that such products must not be visible customers at places of sale unless it is a custom store. Nicotinic products will also be prohibited in certain places where children and young people gather, such as in schools and other educational institutions, as well as in other households intended for day care and social, sports and leisure activities of children and young people. That's how this bill works. To reduce the recruitment of young users on these products. The bill was published under government consultations and received reviews from public institutions, individuals, producers, sealers, and interest groups. Much of the comment was taken into account, and it is recorded in comments to the individual articles of the bill in a paper. A respectable president. I have now explained the main subject of this bill and allow me to suggest that the bill be after the 1st. Pointed to why. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u105	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. A minister for the talk in which she recommends this matter made it quick and quick, as you would expect, during this time of the day when things were sometimes quickly under way. Unfortunately, I didn't quite read this through, so I'm here to ask the highest question. Minister: Is this bill any comment on the content of these lips? Then I mean the electric cigarettes and possibly the nicotine pads I know much less about. What I'm wondering is if there's some sort of surveillance. Will be any monitoring or any rules e.g. About taste? These electric smokes are being smoked, and they smell like strawberry all around them. I'm just asking if there's anything in this bill on this subject, because, of course, smell can have something to do with children and young people to try things or to reach out for them if this smells good, that's the way it can be said. Also, I would like to ask if any of these ingredients are expected to be monitored by a battery. And then: Is there any reason to fear that in these fluids used in electric smokes or in the nicotine pads, you are putting addictive drugs? Is that something of the highest value? A minister has seen or has run her action on the construction of this bill, are there any concerns? Now I just don't know it, but, as it turns out, there are a number of things being said about you. Therefore, I ask a minister if there is anything to do with smell and taste of the materials used there, whether and who is monitoring these substances, and whether they know whether they are putting some addictive substance into it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u106	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question. Regarding flavors, there is a legislation available in the law today to limit the marketing of electronic taste products. It will then be the same source for nicotine products with the approved bill. That's what I'm thinking. The task force I've appointed has been working to determine the extent to which to limit the flavors of refills by means of Regulations and this bill allows the same kind of authority to be available to limit flavourings for the products discussed here. It is estimated that this year's work force will complete its coverage.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u107	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for this answer. Then I would like to repeat and ask again, " What organization or who will monitor these components if they are, and how does this work work? ' Is it health care, or is it a government agency? A little bit off, I think it's kind of funny, I understand that somewhere this needs to be, but is it a House-and-Man working agency that's watching nicotine intake? It may not be worse, why not just the bat or somebody? It's a little special, but the agency's name doesn't necessarily tell us all about the projects. But I wondered, " Is there any surveillance or who has it? ' At the same time, I reiterate what I said before, and I'm not demanding direct answers from the minister. Rather, I'm trying to see if there's any reason to pay attention or whether there is usually any addictive substances other than nicotine, whether there's any reason to worry about being added to this material, perhaps in view of the recent drug or something.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-12-76.u108	A respectable president. Because it's gotten so late, someone shot at me because it's normal for an automaton to do this because electric cigarettes were a type of construction, a natural indiscretion that involves such an answer. At their hearings, neighbour's office was put under surveillance of the law. The Agency was then the government that conducted a marketing check under the safety laws of product and public market security, but by law No. 18/2001, who were approved earlier this year, were the work of the Nite Owl Agency, which turned to market surveillance for Housing and Mobilization Agency. Another possibility that's not suggested in this bill, because that's why. A senator here only mentioned whether to provide health care committees could be some approach, if, having agreed with the Environmental and Resource Ministry, to hide health authorities, which are naturally the local community's roads, monitor these products, i.e. nicotine products and generators. These committees are currently monitoring tobacco products and their markets under tobacco protection laws. However, this would likely include a general review in this field, and it would need to be done after extensive consultations within relevant recruitments and relevant check-ups, etc. However, it is not absurd to think of this in view of the role that is being played by the medical committees today. In addition, the bill is suggested to monitor the Internet's ads and the media board.
