ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u1	Borist has received a letter from the preeminent of the Independence Party for the Gudlord of Þórðarson, 1st. Smoke. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So today, as a deputy senator for him, stands on the list of Independence Party lists in the district, Kjartan Magnússon. Kjartan has not taken his seat before in the Council, but the signing of his word is postponed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u2	The opinion and suggestions given by the letter committee will now be discussed. Now they've all been distributed to each other's table. Senators. I want to know that those who are first at the rosary are the ones who have participated in the work of the draft board and the audience there and on the line is going wild. paritaprevir Birgir an annual Ármannsson who is also chairman of the Committee. I'd also like to assume that afterwards I'm going to go over the rosary, because at the same time the rosary system is down, so we're going to move it in manually, who's going to want to put himself on the rosary. Still, it is the old technology required to knock on a table and tell it, or in an ideal way, if you want to be put on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u3	V.E.G. President. According to 46 st. The Constitution itself determines whether its members are legally elected. This work is being done in the Parliament and in certain terms of election law, of elections to the Council since 2000. A letter committee has been working since its election on Tuesday, but in accordance with the terms of Congress, over the past two months has served the committee of preparatory committees, which has been available to the Commission on Tuesday to the Commission for a detailed report on their work and the results published on the General Assembly and has been available to members of Congress. At previous levels, a variety of data have been published on the website, and members of the Parliament have had the opportunity to examine it as well as the number of documents that have become substantial. It consists of campaigns, memorading, reports from the national ethic, the general government, and other bodies, where members of the Parliament can base their estimates today. In a committee photo signed by the person listed here, Diljá Mist Einarsdóttir, Inga Sæland, Jóhann Friðrik Friðriksson, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótir, and Vilhjálmur of the Year's Árnason, the Committee's Work and its results are discussed in various aspects. It first explains the management of agreements that come with a draft board for books or debates that have been established in elected governments. Without a thorough review of it, this is what we can call the traditional assignment of the Advertising Committee, and there was no disagreement in the Committee on the decision to make in the way mentioned in the Senate. It should be noted that members of the committee have made sure that the proposals for assessment of conflict laws do not affect the outcome of the total election of September 25. Il. The section of this committee discusses the distribution of members of the Parliament, the books of the commissions, and other challenges and is primarily referred to in the work of the preparatory committee, which has had this to do with treatment. We do not argue with many differences in this particular aspect of the committee's view. Our main concern may be that we have been discussing matters of conflict in a way that we have separated them from the books presented in the financial evidences and on the basis of a number of charges received by the General Assembly and then also on the basis of indications related to these charges. To make a long story short, it is proper to say, as indicated in the opinion of the committee, that in view of the number of campaigns received by the General Assembly and the tips associated with them, they have been advanced in obtaining information and explanations from the Ministry of Justice and other ways of trying to shed light on the opinions presented. Of course, we stayed, in the matter of charges, with various things. In the opinion of the committee, in the chapter on election charges, the charge of the charges is attributed to and from each subject and is referred largely to a detailed case in the preparatory report on this subject. So I'm still running a little fast over a story then says in our opinion: Of the charges in the prospective non-election charges in the Northwestern district, please refer to subsections 3,1◯3.7 of section III of the Report of the conditioning Committee for the decision-to-treat trial. As directed by the subsets, it cannot be seen that their contents can make the election invalid, such as 118. and 120. Act of the election for the Generals. What has been largely in the work of the Commission, and as a result, it is the implementation of elections in the northwestern district. There were many comments and comments made by the committee, and most of the time the Governing Body has been spent reviewing the factors in a thorough and clear manner, which, of course, is also the main subject of this committee opinion. We say in the Commission's opinion, regarding the implementation of elections in the northwestern district, by permission of a president: Regarding the charges regarding the implementation of elections in the northwestern district, the case and the legal issue are referred to in subsection 2.3 of Section III of the preparatory committee's report for the trial of elected letters. - And we also refer to section 2.5.8 for evaluation of the effects of elections in the district. As a result of this review of publications, the preparatory committees concluded for their decision-to-be-equired letters that there are no objectives to the response of the head of the administration to a re count, logistical entry, and the presence of the agent, as specified by this section, can affect the outcome of the election. The insistents of possession of the provisional funds while the Northwestern administration interrupted their meeting on Sunday, September 26. 7.35 and until she regroups at about the same time. 13 p.m. is carefully described in the preparatory committee report and referred to. The issue must be counted as the most serious of the problems involved in the implementation of the election. A-in each subsection 2.5.8 there are various opinions on how to assess its effects. In that case, it would be up to the Advisory Committee to provide proposals for the release of stocks based on that assessment. There is a - and I continue to refer to the committee - the Constitution of the National Committee from her meeting on October 1, 2021, with political agents that no confirmation from the Northwestern government was obtained that the treatment and preservation of elections at a speech site in the district was satisfactory in the first century. Has the government in this way made it clear to the Generals that there may be some doubt that it has been protected in a way that they can be trusted to reflect the will of voters at the council elections on September 25, 2021. Emphasizes the national government that, according to Article 46. The Constitution is the role of the Generals to determine whether or not there may be a problem with the implementation of elections that may have affected their outcome, as is 3 mg. 120r. Act of the election for the Generals. The preliminaries'report for market letters reflects the scope of work, which may include: has been conducted by the Committee. The work stressed the importance of informing about the situation, with a large supply of data and conversations, in order to shed light on the treatment and possession of the provisions. In addition, the preparatory report in the Northwestern district was carefully covered by the Commission. In this regard, it is noted that the National Summit administration has provided readily access to the data and information that the Commission requested, as well as to which a representative of the Commission came to a meeting of the Committee, responded to written inquiries, and responded to the facts when an opportunity was made to do so. It is now known that while the Northwestern government interrupted their meeting on Sunday, September 26, 2021, ideal data was stored in open boxes in a safe space that was not fully locked or sealed and the security cameras were not covered. At the same time, four employees of Hotel City had access to the area where the ideal data was stored. Have explained their travels and their reasons. For the report, it is clear that driving the staff of the hotel was the highest level in a leading room, where they worked on transportation. For example, when the staff temporarily disappears from a picture, it may be considered to have entered the counting room or stood by the entrance to the talking room. The evidence shows that only two of the four employees entered the talent hall in order to carry out their duties, who were careful to lock the back door to the talk hall and to gather unclean dishes. At the same time, employees were standing by the entrance of the telethon hall taking pictures of the counting room. It is then considered that the back door of the talk hall was locked at the time. 7.14 or 7.14 p.m. 8,15 but it is not clear when it was locked. Finally, it is known that when pre-election plagion became apparent at the telethon, it would be at about two o'clock. At 11,59, he was there alone from the government until the next election manager arrived at the time. At the same time, the staff of the hotel were in and out of the front room. If all of this is respected, it must be concluded that there has been a critical limit on the custody of the provisional funds that need to be determined whether it may have affected the outcome of the election in the understanding of 3 mg. 120r. Act of the election for the Generals. Considering that by the second count votes, there were significant changes in the votes of volunteers, affecting the distribution of an equationarian in the regional and national terms. As a result, the total number of total regulations increased by two; the total number of blank bills dropped by 12; the number of invalid bills increased by 11. There was a decrease in the number of C-lists by nine and the number of D-list votes by 10, of which eight votes were expressed in the category C-list and two other syllables that had failed in the second stack. Other changes in the suffixations, e.g. the increase of five votes for B-list and the reduction of five in M-list, have been explained by the head-election administration to allow the votes to be misappreciated by the votes of the votes. Has the elected government explained the changes to the point of making an unsatisfactory mistake to show that this was the case. 3 mg. 120r. a law of elections to the General states that if they fail, the election of a senator may have affected the outcome of the Council decision, his election is invalid. Is it in accordance with the principle that voters should be able to trust that the outcome of elections is successful and that their democratic will is respected? Of the law, the principle is that the senator's vote should not be made invalid unless it is reasonable to assume that the bill has affected the outcome of the election, i.e. that specific guidelines should be used. Applying a general standard in such situations would only be considered to be the goal to influence the outcome of the election. In view of the six committees who feel this way, the goal being given is not so much that according to general standards. In view of that, at the General Assembly, it is an obligation to investigate the recent charges and elections of each current senator, as per 1.mg. 120r. Act of election to the Generals and Articles 1 and 5. Act of the General Assembly. Therefore, the point is, can it be viewed as a matter of view that despite the temporary exposure of the ideal data, the voters would still like to be seen at the Council elections of September 25, 2021? In view of the events in particular, this section of the committee needs to consider the following points specifically considered and evaluated. First of all, the transmission of surveillance cameras shows that people pass traffic through a front hall and a counting room between 7:35 and 7:35 p.m. 12,35 is limited to four employees of Hotel Civilism and the oddly aware of the administrations that have made their travels clear and their reasons. Then, from surveillance cameras, we carry recordings from the point when an odd beacon arrives at the count zone. 11,59 other staff at the hotel were also there to care for their duties. Then the staff of the hotel opened the main door to the hall as an odd witness showed up for the voter. Moreover, from the location of surveillance cameras, it is apparent that only the front staff of the hotel and the point card passed through a door that leads to the counting area at the specified time. The staff of the hotel are now known to take photographs of unscheduled quality data during the conference delay of the head-of-the-continental government. Second, an odd beacon has reported that he is in the season. 1 1:59 p.m. We don't have a record of 12.35. He has gone to the speaker's room to clean up and prepare the field service when she returned to work. The meeting of the Directorateship was to begin again at the end of the year. Thirteen o'clock, but the rest of the voters stayed in the hotel while the meeting was delayed. In accordance with data on phone calls, an odd compass was provided at the time of the Commission request. In fact, 12,32 had a national government phone call with a pointie, pointing out that there were two votes at the speech ratio of C-list cheering in the northwestern district and the Southern district, according to the official statistics for the media. At the same time, there is a delay. 12,38 had an odd conversation with the National Celectronic government where it was found that the head of the administration was able to investigate the votes of C-list. When that phone call took place, another representative of the executive government was present or at the time. 12.35. From the interaction between pointy and national politics, it can be concluded that an odd witness first learned about the above votes. It must be noted, however, that as the last figures on the outcome of the election were presented in the media at the time. 9,20 in the Northeast District had the above - mentioned differences. As regards such activities, odd senses as he has described them must also be viewed as his role and position as the point-of-the-head administration of a district handling and implementing an election. In addition, there is some footage of the surveillance cameras involved in any of the staff of the hotel's staff access to a front room. - open from door to door. Thus, Oddvi was not in that sense just in the spoken area. Third, in the opinion of the committee, we can say that the staff of Hotel City answered that it did not apply to the provisional data and that others did not see fit. In addition, the staff has reported their travels, but according to the evidence, only two of the four employees entered the telecommunications chamber to care for their jobs. The surveillance cameras show that the hotel staff didn't disappear from the picture in the afternoon. 9,20 during the conference of the Supreme Court. Based on the available data, it must be considered highly unlikely that the staff of the hotel would have had the opportunity to match the optimal data resulting in the subsequent vote changes. A fourth is that the number of used ballots and exposés would match the total legal fee that the Ministry of Justice had given to the Northwestern Presidency. From this information it cannot be determined that unused notes were meant in a way that affected the outcome of the election. Fifth, there has been an explanation for this book in the conference of the Northwestern district government that the number of ◯ total numbers increased by two due to an error in the sentence at the end of the count. It refers to the accounting error of a counts sheet, which lists minus 1 in invalid bills instead of plus 1, but the error was based on misunderstandings between the head of the head of government and the elected executives of Iceland. In view of the signeder, the forward explanation must be counted as credible. Sixth, the pre-committee has reviewed integrated data in the Northwestern district since September 25 in a thorough fashion, including with the aim of checking the optimal data. During this review, each approved package leaflet was checked. In particular, notes were checked because X had been run out of one supply list and marked with another list of oers. From this review it could be concluded that few ballots, a total of 6, had evidence that X was wiped out in a square in front of the list letter and marked X squares with another list letter. And because the difference was the least in C-list, we took a special look at it, and in no case, X had been wiped out on a C-list. Empty and invalid bills were also checked separately, and it was not found to indicate that the changes in the terms of the invitations made after the latter number can be attributed to the changes made in the number of blank and invalid notes. In addition to the terms C-, M-, J- and D-list, these terms were balanced by a two-pass count, but this interference did not result in an abnormality in the number of votes, except for one additional chain convention song found in the box M-list, which was marked "D-list." In a survey by the Committee, there were several categories of votes, as described in the description of the case in section 2,8, and the committee has made sure that they do not trace the results of the total elections made on September 25 of the past. In view of the above, it is estimated that in the review of the Commission on the provisional data, there was no evidence to indicate that the data contained was valid. There will also be no evidence that the ideal data contains other information than those based on the distribution of Parliamentarians by a national government on October 1, 2021. In the 7th place, the Commission has worked to see whether there was a failure in the speech process and what could be the cause. There is a possibility that during a count vote, the layer of work was changed. It has been shown that this was to speed up the use of speech. It cannot be claimed that this could explain the changes made in the terms of an invitation to a subsequent vote and whether it occurred in a human error. In general, however, it must be assumed that for the most careful measures taken, the most precise measures required to minimise the risk of failure are being taken. Nevertheless, it cannot be excluded that a modified system of action taken under a list of guidelines in order to speed up, and the limited amount of space that people had to perform on count, in some respects, can explain the anomalies that appeared at subsequent votes and have also led to human error that can explain the failure of the speech process. This indicates that the anomalies observed during the review of the conditioning committee on the integrated data suggest that this was a class error, i.e. Sorting notes. In the case of respect for the above points in general, it is concluded that there has been no evidence to suggest that the subsidiary market has affected the outcome of the election in the northwestern district, i.e. leads to the changes in the terms of the proposals for the second count votes. At the same time, it cannot be seen that the change is due to the deliberate error of the latter part of Article 1. 120r. Act of the election for the Generals. It is also more signed that the Supreme government has been authorized to deal with the errors and other abnormalities that it detects and can look for ways to correct them from the legal requirements of elections to the Council, as shown in section III. 2,5.4 of the Commission's report. Then Is it even? Pointed to the presence of agents and to the fact that doors are open. Another conclusion would lead to the failure of voters in democratic elections. Is it not preconceivable that such a conclusion should remain unchanged? Thus, it is not possible, in the opinion of a signeder, to view the decision of the head of government on a subsequent count alone as being a problem in the implementation of the election. The six committees who feel this way want to correct what is traced at the beginning of this chapter and chapter III. 2.5 of the conditioning committee's report for optimal letters that, despite the above conclusions, have been identified, i.e. the conclusion that the vote should not be invalid, a significant goal for the implementation of votes in the northwestern district, which is important to learn from and must be prevented. In this connection, the Committee notes that follow the indications and tips proposed to IV. and that governments and political organizations will be on the lead in this, including, the same. aimed at improving information input and harmonizing roles. This was to refer to the commission as a indication and a referendum, which is made in detail in the Commission's report, and to put it into practice the importance of the agreement of the implementation of elections, the use of a so-called sensitivity analysis and a re-election of elections, the jobs of the agent, the position of disabled people at the establishment and the right to participate in democratic elections, the treatment of extra-corporal meetings and post-election committees for decision-making. The members of the committee who sign here agree wholeheartedly with what was presented in the preparatory work. In other words, the conclusion of our six members of this document is that while the main objectives have been made regarding the total election in the northwestern district, there are no legal requirements to invalidate the election. If so, it is based on a third verse. 120r. it is assumed that only invalid election can be made to show that the main factors involved have affected the value of the election. We feel that we have examined in all the ways that it was possible for evidence to indicate that the defects that were certainly present had affected the outcome of the election. We didn't find any evidence of it and no causal relationship between the defect, which primarily means possession of the provisional funds, and then the outcome of the election. Therefore, our conclusion was that we could not help but, according to our obligations, in accordance with our law and role as members of the Commission of the stock board, in order that the stocks of the 63 members of Congress, who received a tender contract from the National Congress on October 1, the past.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u4	Madam President. At the end of this study, it is about whether the voters were correctly identified, whether or not the terms of distribution are in accordance with the votes that returned to the optimal boxes. That's why I'd like to ask, because this greater part of the draft board says that the goal that has been made has not affected the outcome of the election, whether the senator can tell me who they were. What is the conclusion in the northwestern district? What are the votes there?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u5	V.E.G. President. We believe that the end-of-the-day election appeared in the numbers that the head-of-the-line administration gave the national ultimatum and was the basis for the intervention on October 1st, taking into account the minor variations that we found in our careful review of all the goods that give no basis for any change in the election's outcome. It was a few of the votes that had been graded wrong, and we detected in our review, but in the other hand, no one has questioned the correctness of the fees or election data we studied and stored in the Citynes police prison. The question is, the defenses of the provisions were satisfactory, and the committees agree that this defense was not sufficient. But there is no evidence to suggest that the data were involved during this period, and we base our conclusions on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u6	Madam President. I think that reverse evidence burden goes by. A senator so custard. That's exactly what I'd have thought it would be necessary to show off a violation so that we didn't have the possibility of breaking the chain of responsibility by not sealing the data. But it does reflect the natural confusion of this case that we have three numbers. Hv. A senator said that it was the second speech. Let's just take the wood frame, for example. Resurrected received 1,072 votes in the Northwestern vote in previous figures, lost nine votes in a second count, and then found two votes that would have been judged invalid by the preparatory committee. The middle class went from 1,283 votes to 1,278, and it could also be said that it got 1,279 votes. Although these figures alone, when installed into the national calculus, do not change the total distribution of national values, they give every reason to doubt everything on the board in the northwestern district. In a perfect world, we'd recount it from the bottom, but we can't because it's contaminated the goods. How, on the other hand, does the majority of the committee get the impression that these numbers can be passed and not recommended?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u7	V.E.G. President. That, of course, is the point. We're based on the accuracy of the figures of the second count. Our tour of the citynes for more than one time, and more than two were involved in examining the quality data, whether the ideal data was contaminated, like that of a dog. A senator spoke up. What we examined during our last trip was revealed by the fact that there was a single class error in addition to what had happened earlier. We had a much more thorough analysis of the data because we saw it. So we don't have any reason to question the figures that come out there, and when we think of the defects, we're going to check to see if there were any signs, any clues, anything, to indicate that they belonged to the ideal data. It wasn't. It's that simple.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u8	President. There are two things I would like to ask. A senator on the subject of the debate: On the one hand, it is easy to say. paritaprevir Asks the Birgir man's Ármannsson that this part of the committee doesn't feel that they have a legal right to invalidate the vote because it would be demonstrated that the problem had an effect. I would like to point out in general that just in front of the word appears to have had the effect, not that the problem had its effect, but that it might be expected. We have some precedents in the Supreme Court, however, since there are votes or conspires that cannot be presented directly to change the outcome, but the elections are doomed invalid; for example, I dismiss. correspondent in the town of 2002 The other thing I would like to draw attention to is when the more part deals with that point not in that sense was one in the spokening area. There is a distinction between this hall that is there; there is a higher area where the agent was and the like, which was then boxed with soles, which were from floor to ceiling and then by table at the center door. Then there was the inner count zone. I have to make a comment to the fact that I think it can truly be said that there was an odd bet in the counting area of over half an hour that can be included in a committee list of more parts, not in the whole hall, i.e. if the front area is included, but in the spoken area, which is claimed to have been not alone in the committee mask of more parts. I'd like to make a comment about that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u9	V.E.G. President. For the second thing, we were primarily making it clear that although the point was true to be one in the counting area at a certain time, it is not as if it was in a closed space but was open in the forward areas where people were living. It's not like he's been laying around somewhere in some corner, it was open there. Anyone could come in there, and workers were traveling through the area. We tried to make it clear and honest. Regarding the first point is the matter and the evaluation that we face, to a large extent, about how 3 mg should be evaluated. 120r. where, just as the wind, is right. A senator points out, says ▪ If it is possible to say that. Legal evidence is not required that the failure actually affected the outcome of the election; it can be said that the protocol is set forward in this way, i.e. if you think so. However, in order to believe that the problem had an effect, there must be some evidence, something indicating that it can be concluded that it is possible to do so. That is what we base our conclusions on.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u10	President. The evidence is natural that the balance of data was undefeated for the five hours. It's in my opinion that the norm is the same as leaving an election. For example, if an ideal box came from a place to talk and the seal were broken, we would certainly immediately question the integrity of the votes found there. There would be a general fault with the provisional data that, in my opinion, would lead to their invalid election, at least in the vote department. It has been said that if a ballbox doesn't come from an election department, it's necessary to re-elect in such an elected department. But they say, "We're stuck with both the upcoming data, " they were undefeated and unsure, and that there were goals, i.e. changes in the results from previous to subsequent counts were observed. We have a potential general flaw, which I quite understand, that people might want to sort out in one way or another, good and blessed with it, I want to sort it as a general flaw. Therefore, we have such a strict requirement for sealing in order to secure the data available to us. It's too easy to say that if they're not, it's possible to get an election out. But then we also have a special problem, which is that the numbers changed. So it is very easy to say that there is evidence that something has happened. We cannot determine exactly what happened. If we could, we wouldn't be sure, but we haven't been able to tell us why the numbers changed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u11	V.E.G. President. It is true, of course, that if there were cameras from a surveillance camera that showed the ideal data all the time, we would never have been in this problem, if you were to look at it realistically. If everything had been clear, it wouldn't have been a problem. Similarly, if the results of the second talk had been the same as in the previous count, we would not have been so concerned about the limitations that would have bent on possessing an arrangement. However, it cannot be concluded that the defect was not sufficiently maintained - it's a busy goal, it's clear, but it can't be claimed, and there's no evidence that the subsistence caused it, e.g. beyond human error in the first count, the election's outcome changed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u12	The president would like to draw the attention of the U.S. Congress to a rosary is a little falling in and out. She's inside now, and I'd like to encourage him. Parliamentaries to learn of this order. There are now about 14 who have put themselves on the rosary, but the file is, as I say, a little falling in and out. I got it. I got it. Councilmen to settle down and study the rosary. The first ones to arrive at the rosary, as I mentioned earlier, are those who have participated in the work of the Advisor Committee and the audience there.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u13	V.E.G. President. A detailed report has been provided for the Commission of the Advisory Committee as the draft board, which was last night. It, as mentioned here in the case of the first speaker, discusses the work of the Commission, a procedure, information collection, reporting, and a survey of the conduct of the September 25th district election, the charges received by the committee, and how they responded. All data are available. Allied Christians have had the opportunity to learn about it. As the people around the world know, events began at noon on Sunday, September 26, which still do not provide the end. At that time, the sensitivity analysis of the national mathematicianry administration of read finals in all six terms showed that very small, two votes were going to remember the percentages of C-list Correspondences in Northwestern and Southern politics, the small that if figures changed, it could lead to a change in who would be taking place at the World Council. It is in this context to compare how and how to cope with this discovery of the national ethic in the northwestern district and the Southern districts, as we can see in the meetings there. In this regard, we find a description of how to make formal decisions and how not to do so. But let's first look at the election day, Saturday, September 25th, and events at the Hotel Citynes, where the government and its staff had residence and counting. First, there was the beginning of the class of votes that closed doors at about a time. 19 C.E. It is unusual for the classification of votes to begin before the end of a meeting, but their counting must not begin until the establishments are closed, it must stand before the open door and in the presence of the agents of the supply list. Evidently, it wasn't like that in the Northwestern concept because the first figures were read up about that. ten minutes past ten in the evening and had been counted as 5,932 votes. Second, I'd like to mention that a survey of prime committees revealed a procedure in the counts, and then I mean the process of dissociating from votes, sort of votes by proposals, and then a count in the stack of events of 50 or 100 votes, was changed in the middle of a series. In contrast, we did not agree about what time it was done or how that decision was made. However, this is not the only case of discrepancies observed by the Committee survey. Third, I'd like to mention that there are entries in a book, i.e. The conference program, the general government, was missing. It was not received as without or all the above mentioned in it, e.g. The exact presence of emissaries, such as when they arrived and the time when they went, the skeptics and the application of local emissaries, as well as the decision to re count, as stated on Sundays, was not booked. The discovery was written afterwards and only signed in the book of production by the point-of-the-concerned head government. Notes were also made at the final edition, but not all of them were made. President. At his meeting on October 1st. gave a district convention to 63 members of Congress and their deputies. They followed the Protocol of a national government that reported that the Supreme Government in the Northwestern District had not been able to confirm adequate provisional control. The data had not been sealed, and this case was resolved. A detailed report on events presented before the Commission is given. The committee also received data from the Westland police, which was obtained through an investigation of Karl Gauti Hjaltason's charges on possible illegalities in the implementation of the election. According to 46 st. The Republic's constitution is the task of senators to agree to a ballot letter, so we are gathered here. A study of the Commission and the Parliamentary Committee lays the basis for the decision to be made. After all, it is our project that has the terms of the convention that was issued October 1st. to evaluate and determine the value of the election in the northwestern district. Madam President. I'm going to take the basics of my opinion as it is in a Senate document. In the opinion of the section of the Committee as the question. paritaprevir Here, the Birgir of Ármannsson spoke at the beginning of a speech that was given under this point, relating to the issues of differences, the distribution of senators, the books of the embassies, and other demonstrations and tips, as did I, II, and IV. the section of opinion - I agree with that part of that opinion. Then I also agree on a discussion in the above terms of election approval, to the extent that their content is bound to other things than the implementation of an election in the Northwestern Cathedral, as noted in chapter III, and now I hope that a body of Congress has understood what I was saying. President. On the charges regarding the implementation of elections in the northwestern districts, on the grounds and on the grounds of the law are referred to in subsection 2 of section III of the Report on the preparatory committee for the trial of elected letters. The evaluation of the impact of elections in the district is referred to under Section 2.5.8. In a list of essentials, as per subsection 2.5.8, it is noted that their evaluation is based on the report that each of the subjects does not have a limit to which it can be shown that he alone has influenced the outcome of the election. Bear in mind, then, that a single goal may not result in an invalidation if the goal cannot be expected to have affected the finals, as stated earlier. 3 mg. 120r. By permission of the President's election, the Court states that if they fail, the election or the election of a senator may have affected the outcome of the election's decision by the General Assembly, his vote was invalid; It is in accordance with the fact that voters should be able to trust that the outcome of elections is successful and that their democratic will is respected. For a technical discussion, there are different approaches to which criteria have been proposed to assess the impact of problems on the value of elections and that the selection of invalid scales is something to be done. The report describes the limitations of the total elections carried out in the northwestern district, but their magnitude differs. It agrees with the assumption made by the Commission for the study of district letters that the primary targets for the response of the head of the administration to re-election, logbook entry and the presence of the commissions are not to be seen, as shown in subsection 2.5.8, have affected the outcome of the election and should not be the source of an invalid election. However, the absence of the agent, for example, can be clearly seen as a major factor. Unremarkable writing in a projection book, which was not carried out in accordance with the clear directive of elections to the Generalis, leads to an untranslation and a lack of confidence in the outcome. Thus, the terms of the issue are relevant to the implementation of elections as well as the rules intended to ensure justice and confidence in the outcome of the election. The insistents of possession of the provisional funds while the Northwestern government interrupted their meeting on Sunday, September 26, about 6: 00 p.m. 7.35 and until she regroups at about the same time. 13 p.m. is carefully described in the preparatory committee report and referred to this description. The issue must be counted as the most serious of those who were in the implementation of the election. A-in each subsection 2.5.8 there are conflicting opinions on how to assess their effects. In that case, it would be up to the Advisory Committee to provide proposals for the release of stocks based on that assessment. It is evident that while the Northwestern government interrupted their meeting on Sunday, September 26, optimal data was stored in open boxes in an area that was not fully locked or sealed and the security cameras were not covered. At the same time, four employees of Hotel City had access to the area where the ideal data was stored. It is not clear when the back door of the talk room was locked. Finally, it is known that when pre-election plagion became apparent at the telethon, it would be at about two o'clock. 11,59 was he alone from the government until the next elected manager arrived. At 12,35 in the area, but according to police records, the staff of the hotel were traveling out and into the hall at that time. Then, again, I would like to refer to the book of the National Quantum government from its meeting on October 1, 2021, with government officials that the treatment and preservation of speech sites in the U.S.A. had not been sufficiently established by the Norwegian Precinct government. Thus, the General government brought to the attention of the Generals that there may be some doubt that the ideal data has been protected in a way that they can be trusted to reflect the desire of voters to the total elections performed on September 25. If all of this is respected, it must be concluded that there has been a serious problem limit to the possession of the provisional funds, which should evaluate whether or not has affected the outcome of the election in the understanding of 3 mg. 120r. Act of the election for the Generals. Considering that by the second count votes, significant changes in the votes became available, affecting the distribution of an equationarian in the regional and national terms. As a result, the total number of total regulations increased by two; the total number of blank bills dropped by 12; the number of invalid bills increased by 11. There was a decrease in the number of C-lists by nine and the number of D-list votes by 10, of which eight votes were expressed in the category C-list and two other syllables that had failed in the second stack. Other changes in the terms of proposals have been made on the side of the Supreme Government to explain that the votes of the votes have failed. Has the Commission explained the change to the point of human error. 3 mg. 120r. a law of elections to the General states that if they fail, the election of a senator may have affected the outcome of the Council decision, his election is invalid. The principle suggests that a special estimate of the value of the election should be used and that the application of general standards under such circumstances would only be considered to be the goal to influence the outcome of the election. During the application of the specific criteria that seek to determine whether a goal might be expected or not to affect the outcome of the election, the result may be that it cannot be revealed. Thus, according to the Ministry's memoir, dated October 22, 2021, other viewpoints can influence the strictness of the standards to determine whether errors lead to invalidation. The nature and purpose of the break - down rules of justice to make a difference in these matters. It may thus be expected that this will be less effective if there is only a defect in the implementation rules than there is a greater impact if there is a defect in the rules intended to ensure the correct safety or confidence in the outcome. Whether it is acceptable for some material doubt to exist at the time of the meal can be tested. In view of the fact that the General election is intended to express the democratic will of voters, this is unacceptable by signing and being referred to by the Supreme Court of 2011 for the election to the Council. It held the main view of election elections at Generals that transparency should be expressed in the number of votes and should be held in the context that it is not enough to be counted if not stately trust that this is the case. The topic under consideration here focuses on whether the quality data has been undefeated for a few hours and whether adequate information or explanations have been provided that provision contains the voters' will be interested in the September 25 elections. To help us understand this, we must take into account the following points that have been specifically signed and evaluated: First of all, the video recording from surveillance cameras shows that people pass through the talking room between the clock and the clock. 7:35 p.m. 12,35 is limited to four members of the Hotel Civility and the odd understanding of the Supreme Government. In this case, video recordings from surveillance cameras indicate that since an odd beacon shows up at the telecommunication site, other staff of the hotel were also there working in the front room, as noted. The door of the main hall was also unlocked. Furthermore, from the location of surveillance cameras it can be concluded that only the front staff of the hotel and that there is an odd way in which there is access and staff access to the spoken sector during the specified period. It is worth noting that the surveillance cameras were directed toward the optimal data as they were stored in the counting room in open boxes. Furthermore, the staff of the hotel have been advised to take photographs of unscheduled quality data during the conference of the head government. Based on these data, it is not possible to state that optimal data have been sufficiently protected within the specified time period, as well as the book of the district administration on October 1. Second, an odd beacon has reported that he has the interval since the clock. 1 1:59 p.m. We don't have a record of 12.35. He has entered the telecommunications chamber to clean up and prepare for the election government's work when she returned to work. The meeting of the Directorateship was to begin again at the end of the year. Thirteen o'clock, but the voters stayed in the hotel while the meeting was being postponed. It's almost time. In fact, 12,32 had a national government phone call with a pointie, pointing out that there were two votes at the speech ratio of C-list cheering in the northwestern district and the Southern district, according to the official statistics for the media. At the same time, there is a delay. 12,38 had an odd conversation with the National Celectronic government where it was found that the head of the administration was able to investigate the votes of C-list. Despite the fact that there is an analysis of the surveillance cameras involved in the staff access account, it cannot be avoided to conclude that the ideal data was not protected. Third, the preparatory committee took over empty and invalid terms. The number of invalid bills increased by 11 and the total decrease in wealth by 12 between the previous and the second numbers. During the review of the conditioning committee, one valid vote card was found for the wealthy. No other explanation is given except that this was a mistake. A review of the invalid bills revealed that five notes were invalid because their reverse had been scolded, not marked with any anal letters on the front. Other invalid terms, total 13, did not give reason for comment, and none of them had a label for C-list. On the other hand, there is a problem with the lack of descriptions of the terms which were invalid and had an empty set of bills, as well as with the description of the bills which were declared invalid by a previous count. So it has not been reported how the increase of the invalid cash is precisely present and what mistakes have been made in the cause since they were considered invalid, such as 1 mgr. 103. g. Act of the election for the Generals. It should also be noted that the terms of whether agents were called to evaluate the problem in the period of grouping and counting and the writing of type books were lacking in these materials. Fourth, the preparatory records were reviewed at the vote in the Northwestern district of September 25, U.S.A. Although the committee's identification of a number of categories of votes, as described in the case, it has been established that these anomalies do not change the outcome of the election, as reported, would be counted again in accordance with the order of elections to the Council. On the other hand, my opinion is that there is a limit of treatment to be taken and the possession of sufficiency that the third count or the endless re count cannot correct. In the fifth, it has not been possible to inform the reason that there was a decrease of nine votes in C-list with eight terms belonging to a D-list, and one list of Bs, or a vote for a D-list increased by 10, by seven J-lists, as well as by five votes between the B and M-list. A sixth study revealed that during a count vote, the procedure was changed. It cannot be said that this can explain the changes in the terms of the proposals for the latter number of votes. In general, however, it must be assumed that for the most careful measures taken, the most precise measures required to minimise the risk of failure are being taken. Nevertheless, it cannot be excluded that the changed procedure taken under the count votes and the limited space that people had to act on the count may in some way explain the abnormalities observed at the subsequent votes. In the case of respect for the above points, there are three main reasons why quality data have not been sufficiently protected. First, it is clear that the possession of financial funds was disloyal from the suspension of the Northwestern government. 7.35 on Sunday morning and until she got back together at about the hour. Thirteen o'clock. The evidence has not been made to ensure that the optimal data at the time were protected in such a way that they reflect the voters' wishes for the General election. Second, it is clear that the treatment of questionable terms to determine their value has not been in accordance with the terms of elections to the Council, but a book shall be made by the head of government to pay off the individual invalid terms and the descriptions of each of the problems and what has led them to an invalid estimate, such as 1 mgr. 103. g. Act of the election for the Generals. This is not to be used for information on the treatment of invalid labeles. Third, there must be no explanation for any proposals that became available after the latter count votes. When specifically considered, in a box marked C-list, there were eight syllables marked with a D-list and one vote marked with a B-list. In view of all of this, it has to be proposed that it has not been sufficiently informed that the preservation of the north-western district of September 25s has been in an effort to ensure that they keep the democratic will of voters and that the ends of preservation have not affected the outcome of the election in the ideals. The Supreme Court's Court in case of No. 96/1980 says that the percentage of campaign secrets is considered an invalid target without any evidence that they have, in effect, influenced the outcome of the election. The evidence thus suggests that those who have been tore up here are supposed to be voters in the Northwestern district are, in effect, leading to an invalidation of the election in the district without evidence that they have, in effect, influenced the outcome of the election. In addition, there is a debate over the effects, i.e. Some feel that the relative importance of the classes is the same as evidence that the effect was not. I will not agree, for the change has been made from so - called first numbers to the second number, changing who were declared members of the council, and who were given an election letter. With reference to 121, the U.S. election law, I believe, from the above, the vote has to be held in the northwestern district. It also includes, as it were 5. the Council of Parliamentary Congress, not to be required to accept the terms of elections published on October 1, 2021, to the seven elected elections of Parliaments in the northwestern district and of the nine senators who were equal to the total election of September 25. As I said at the beginning of my speech, my highest. President, this issue will then be resolved on the Protocol of the National Remuneration Commission, which was sent to the preparatory committee of the Advisor Committee and to appoint market letters, and to confirm that the treatment of the economics in the northwestern district has been satisfactory. That alone is the main point of this case, and it is the trust of the public in the campaign system in this country, a system that is the basis for our calling ourselves a democracy.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u14	A respectable president. While we are here at a time of need, I want to say: " It's good to be back, I'm glad we're back, and I trust we'll work with what we're trusted to do here. I'd like to direct a query to what. Þórunn Sveinbjarnardóttir Beardddóttir. It points out that on an offer from the National Committee, they did not receive a report from the Supreme Court and a guarantee of loyalty to the provisional data. Counts 'em out. A senator that it is in the power of a national government or of the Generals to determine the value of elections? Was this just a hint from the government or something serious that it can be concluded that, if I understand it correctly, is simply referring to the possibility that there may have been something terrible about being who might have influenced the outcome of the election and would like voters in the Northwestern district? I'd like to refer to Section 3. 120r. An election song saying, with President's permission: ▪ If these faults are on the offer or vote of a senator who may have affected the outcome of the election decision, his election made invalid, and so without the death of the senator himself, his agents, or those who have deliberately made the decision of... I'm just done with the quote. That was enough, I don't need any more. We've been given the committee, like what? A senator, a former high court judge, Eiríkur Tómasson, whom I understood to make no mistake that the current right was exactly what the lawgiver had to do and to follow. And if the lawgiver couldn't prove that the current right was faulty, then we had to follow it. [[The president calls.]] So I ask. A senator: What's the matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u15	Madam President. I counted three questions. At first, if there was any doubt in the matter of the Senate's decision on the ballot. No, there is no doubt about it. It stands and is in the Republic's constitution. On the one hand, we ask what the government meant by the booking. I don't know that the national government has previously sent a billing commission with the published stock markets. I understand, and I understood in the case of a government representative when they presented themselves to the preparatory committee that this was unusual because the case was serious. Hv. A senator asks what is wrong. We might not have sat together for two months if everything had been cut and cut, performed, structure, class, and speech, and all that was going on in the northwestern district. That's what's wrong, of course. But the most serious of all, the most serious, is that we cannot be absolutely sure of the consequences of marketing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u16	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. When I ask what was going on, I realize completely that there were flaws and a great many of the things we've really got to see and have accepted in our long and good report. At the same time, I want to take this opportunity to thank you. A senator, as well as a whole pre-election board, and then we as draft board for a very good and excellent and professional work, where we were able to work together until now in our final meters and agree that we wanted to do our best. What I'm wondering is really what I asked earlier: Tells why. A senator for the current right and the understanding laid down by the Supreme Court judge Eiríkur Tómasson. 120r. law on elections - that's wrong?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u17	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir Sæland Heland cites a former high court judge, Eiríkur Tómasson, and his views as a scholar of this important matter. In fact, we called out more scholars and teachers in this field, experts in the administrative law, and one of them showed us that pars 120. wouldn't necessarily be the only standard. This can be interpreted literally. However, the wording in this article is ▪ If you think you can, and the wording alone gives space for interpretation, which is exactly what the law is about, and that is exactly the task we are facing, to interpret whether it might have affected the outcome of the campaigns how the campaign was carried out in the northwestern district.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u18	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir A Þórunn Sveinbjarnardóttir daughter did a fine job with the committee and went through some information gained by the committee and an important point of view. There was, however, one thing I expected to do in speaking to each other. A senator and I may have misheard or misunderstood, but I would like to ask the senator to consider it better. I couldn't hear better than what I heard. A senator felt that the committee did not have any serious wealth, and he invalidates enough from a city's telecommunications survey, so there was no question that any change could have resulted in the change in results between speaking in the 26th of September. That's how I understood the senator. So I want to pray. The senator to confirm whether it is true that the committee has two tours of both blank and invalid bills, examined them twice, looked at them all twice, and recorded details about them, although we certainly do not have a picture of each one of us, such as the discrepancies we worked on in our last tour of the money.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u19	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sævarsdóttir Saevard's log of question. I wanted to correct the misunderstanding, if it ever happened, that I might be understood so that the committee hadn't done it. Of course, we both know that the committee did this. What I was referring to are the reasons why changes occurred. This was in the paragraph about it, the reasons for all the changes we found, and the way numbers changed. In the subsequent survey of the Committee, other bills had failed, etc. But I wasn't saying that the committee didn't pay any attention.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u20	Madam President. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on the fact that he does not seem to be building a causal relationship between the lack of financial resources and the fact that the showdown has affected the approval of the election. No one can affect the outcome of the election on his own. That's perfectly clear. Something has to happen between us. Well, I'd say so, then. A senator will not tell you what is happening between, after a hearing is delayed, and is believed to be again. Hv. A senator seems to be based on the impression that members of Hotel City were referring to the ideal data or that the plagiarism of the Supreme Government was referring to the quality data. He is an elected secretary of the World Congress in the district to care for the elections. There is no one else who distributes except the staff of the hotel and the oddly political regime. I want to ask you why. A senator: What is the causal relationship? It does not appear to be based on any causal relationship between the exception and its impact. Second, it does not appear to be based on the wording of 3 mg. 120r. Act of the election for the Generals. Hv. Just before, a senator said that the wording alone was out of control and that it was not the only standard. It seems then that the law is not based, but it does not appear to be based on a 3. 120r. It's something else. I'd like to ask what it's based on.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u21	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the question and welcome the senator to the council. Here's the knife in the cow, so to speak. We're not in a criminal investigation. There is no reason for a causal case here. That's the assessment that's taking place here in the frame of the law. In effect, it is the decision of the committee and the contrast between our attitude toward it. There's not a lineup going on. The odds are coming up, and it's clear that we can't make a statement, and we can't confirm that the preservation of the marketing equipment was sufficiently valid. As a result, the data cannot be trusted. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u22	Madam President. I just want to reiterate the fact that the bill alone - these data could be completely undefeated, if it doesn't have to do with the data, no one will change the voters, then it won't affect the outcome of the election. There's a basic element in this matter. Song of Three Legs. 120r. is perfectly clear. If these faults are at the election of a senator who may have had an effect - which may have affected - on the final election, the resolution of the General election is invalid. It's a good thing to think. The senator does not base on this law, so it is not in harmony with the law. The question is, if it doesn't follow the law, it's an illegal opinion, and we're not in a criminal investigation. It's not a criminal case here. The council is about to proceed by law, nothing else.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u23	V.E.G. President. While it is very important, there is more to it than the direct words of the legislature. It's about the form and trust of the citizens of the country on the campaign system and the democracy we've joined to run here. That's the main thing, the shape, the trust. And that, as I told you in the previous year, my answer to what? A senator, as there is a lack of adequate custody of provisions, cannot rule out the possibility that anything has happened. This is the end of the investigation by the Committee, where all of us and all in this room need to form an opinion. I've formed my own, that's not an illegal opinion. I'm legally elected here to determine whether or not a ballot should be approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u24	A respectable president. As mentioned in the case of what? The preceding members of the council will consider our situation in terms of the election's terms in September in the fall. This has been observed in a study and review by the Committee at 34 meetings, i.e. The pre-employment committee, and then by the Communion Committee itself, found a large set of problems and defects that have been identified by the Committee's research, by data collection, by visitors, on terms of the provisional data and the circumstances in the city. Sadly, these shortcomings are more than acceptable in the circumstances where we want the democratic election to be carried out and the conclusion transcended by doubt. It doesn't make no difference to us that it doesn't work for us just to add a bang for something that's impossible or something unacceptable, so that we, as members of the council, face this assignment, just say: "This has to be invalid because it's not talking. This is exactly at the point where we need to be careful about our very special role as discussed by the European Court of Human Rights, i.e. The role of the Council to determine the value of stocks. What is the foundation we have to build? It is the law base and the frame that the Council has established for us before and since, there are ancient cases in the Supreme Court, decisions, both on the basis of the laws under consideration, and on the basis of the formation of comparable legislation on government elections. So the subject is that we have a law letter, and we also have some precedents. But we have, perhaps fortunately, not one example of the fact that the General faced another. Therefore, we need to be careful, and that is why we need to be very careful because what we are going to do, at the present meeting, is made up of the fact that, not only are reports and committees but also the phrases that take place here in the Senate and, of course, of course, when all of this is over. Before I begin to break my opinion, or the opinion I am signing, I would like to be able to do it, because it's not necessarily a case, that the committee has worked well together. Someone may find that a strange claim in view of the fact that here are several suggestions and more than one opinion, but I put it here that we have all come forward and that the head of the Committee showed extraordinary guise in bringing the committee together over wood and rocks, through complex opinions and a difficult meeting. As noted in a committee Þórunn. Sveinbjarnardóttir This, as well as my opinion, which is to this accord, is actually taken under the opinion of the Cognition. paritaprevir Ármannsson the son of Aargis, and those who are with him in this regard, in the matter of conflict, and of the distribution of the churchtes, and of the books of the embassies, and of the other demonstrations, and of the motions, and of the motions. In addition to the opinion of the voters, to the extent that their content is bound to a degree other than the implementation of an election in the northwestern district, as it has been observed, it is the right to appear in this conference. As I traced before, our roles and tasks are gone, and that may be a bit of a solemn role and the task we have in our hands, i.e. to take care of the principle that the election for the Council is democratic and that the democratic will of voters to enjoy themselves. We need to test our attention to this matter to avoid losing sight of the role, i.e. that we may ensure that the democratic will of voters may enjoy themselves. Of course, this is stated in a constitution, and it is a vote that takes into account this rule, and the whole operation takes into account this rule. This is a precious right. In reality, it is the heart of democracy when voters come to the optimal table and then give their commission by choosing. As I reasoned, it is not so that the election law can be understood that nothing can be taken away, but the more and more serious the abnormalities will be, the more important it is to determine whether there is any fault that affects the outcome of the election and leads to an invalidation. Pointed to understanding 3 mg. 120r. The law that's only been discussed here, both in speeches and in the answers. On October 4 and as mentioned, we have been meeting regularly since, for 34 times, and have had various guests in our meeting, and we have arranged the situation in the special report made by the Commission of the preparatory Committee. It contains all the details, and the ones under it agree on the facts and in reality does not reveal the limitations we have. What we disagree about is how to interpret their limitations, identify their influence, and then assess their impact on the value of market letters. You see, there was a little unusual when this sequence of events started, which usually takes place in an unscrupulous fashion when the national government gives out a ballot letter and has a neat meeting of the district convention committee that takes half an hour, and we finish to validate and accept the terms. When the government passes its credits to the council, then the book will be national government. And with this publication, which shows that there has been insufficient confirmation from the Northwestern government that the treatment and preservation of communicators at a speech site in the district has been adequate, our subjects have been framed. This is, in fact, to tell the serious problem and to hide the labour board to assess whether it can by other means, through data collection, through study, etc., to conclude that treatment and the preservation of ideals were adequate. The government did not have such instruments. The same study points out that according to a constitution, it is our responsibility to determine the value of the election. As a result, my opinion is on how to treat and preserve goods at the testing site. For other limitations, I refer to alternatives but to these limitations, to the book-making of the National Committee, as well as to a chapter in the Review Committee's work on treatment and possession of terms, as the facts exist regarding timing, etc. The rules we set in the terms of the handling of terms are security rules, rules to ensure the safety of goods, because it may be the most valuable information we have in a democracies community, i.e. Specific documents before and before they have been made aware of their conclusions. This safety principle is aimed at ensuring that the democratic will of voters will be allowed to enjoy themselves and act. These protocols are not just for us to feel better at work or to remind us that something unexpected or uncomfortable will happen or just for us to be assured that material is the right conclusion but also for the public to be able to believe that it is true, that the public can look at this process and think: it's something that is so composed of rules and systems that I'm supposed to be able to trust that when I put X to my credit card list, it gets out completely, unbroken through the countings, to a higher government in my chosen districts, districts and districts and to the World Congress. We want this to be an unbroken process. Is this factor so important to the Lawgiver as well, i.e. Premier's stay-of-the-arts party? As we examine the U.S. election law, this is discussed in many places. In the chapters, you will find that it is almost as if you were using a manual rather than a standard code of law. It is noted that the Ministry of Justice will give the votes a seal, that when the super-election administrations sent votes, packaging should be sealed with official sealing, with the permission of presidents: "Be careful that the packaging cannot be opened and removed without breaking the seal can be completed. Il. a section that contains rules for non-concerned proverbs, says that the vote box should be sealed by the manager, along with the designated voter and is the list of agents allowed to place on it his seal. In the 67th. it says that the voter may require a letter containing his vote, if it is not preserved in a sealed vote box, that he submits it all until the vote is accepted by the sub-election, etc. Enrolled in these laws, protection of the provisional database is a key factor. It's like a red thread all over the campaign law. Not only are the rules for the use of an official seal very prominent but the laws also contain specific rules that include the same person, e.g. Never included in it holds both a record and a seal of voters. This provision for creating, for sealing of terms, and that there is no privacy with ideal data is based on a key key that is that, whatever the honesty of people, all of those involved, the implementation of elections and walkers must be done so that the general public can clearly trust that the physical conclusion, the will of the voters, has been brought to light. Not only are we talking about a security rule but we are also talking about a rule that is about the fact that the public should be able to trust that the conclusion is correct. Of course, it is the foundation of a legitimate security in the Icelandic administration that the citizens can have confidence in the government of public power and, of course, we are talking about the administration of the European Commission at various levels. It is not enough that government, if not visible, actually handles its solution. We want to be able to see it. We have all kinds of laws, we have information laws, we have administrative laws. And is this all about filming some kind of crime? No, it's about the city's ability to look for information anywhere and at any time about the objective of making a decision because it's its own goal that the community will have confidence in its members. Therefore, it is important that governments not treat them in a way that directly reduces the public belief that the right decision will be made in a matter. These legal standards, which are only about these terms in elections and underlying principles for sealing votes and that it is not to be in private with undefeated votes, are both intended to ensure that the results of the campaign cannot be influenced in practice but no less so that the results cannot be changed, i.e. The appearance must be credible. The problem, however, is that if these rules are broken in the way they are, and we do not argue here, then it is almost unfair to say whether the votes have been changed. It has come to the point that it cannot be claimed, but it cannot be said that it has not been done. This cannot be excluded. Then, because we are talked about the problems and the other conclusions, the conclusion that after these regulations had been broken, the result was not the same as that it meant much enough for the movement on the council grounds. This situation, in fact, regardless of whether or not it was the votes, is designed to undermine public confidence and credibility in the outcome of the election. There's the democracies point in this case. Of the facts, as we have here, the reason. The council before me, it is clear that significant numbers were on provisions from the time the Supreme Court left the speaking post at seven o'clock in the morning and until she was back to work at noontime. The use of the official seal was not in accordance with the explicit regulations of the law, the cooling data were undefeated for five hours, and the point of the head government was for 35 minutes alone with unsealed terms in the counting area, so that it is reserved for 35 minutes. Suppose it had been counted again in the morning or at noontime, after the decision had been made alone, and the result would have been the same, i.e. previous figures and second figures would have been the same. Then it would be perfectly clear that despite his limitations and the severity of his actions, he would not have enough to invalidate the vote because the principle should always apply to elections. It's important. The critical point is not just one person, but in this connection with the result. This has been a bit of a review of these invalidations, and perhaps the simplest thing to think is, or to keep, that in this article a vote is actually expected for a specific scale. Both limitations and consequences are said to be involved. Then we can deal with what they might have had and possibly something. And we've talked about it here. A specific guide indicates that the decision is not invalid unless the goal has affected the outcome. It is the usual approach to specific measures. Specific standards can also be used by which the goal cannot be proved or ruled out. Then, in effect, we say that there is a burden of evidence on government and not on citizens. We say: The city should not need somewhere in her home to show that it was the ideals. Rather, the government needs to convince citizens that it was not done, because there is the right situation in the treatment of authority in a democracy. It is normal, in my opinion, to refer to an invalid policy in the administration board in the interpretation of this subject, i.e. an invalid order of elections for the Generals because the same principles apply there. There is a possibility that there were serious problems with measuring in the northwestern district, i.e. Insecure preservation of goods in open room and traffic psychiatric terms with the provisional data alone. After a thorough study of the pre-election committee, it has not been possible to confirm whether or not these primary factors had an impact on the outcome of the election. There is also the fact that only a few votes to or from now on had a significant impact on the outcome of the campaign and the distribution of the Parliamentarians. It cannot be excluded with certainty that the subjects have been affected and that they include violations of the terms of election law designed to ensure that the right counts can be determined and that the public can be confident that they have. Therefore, in that light and with reference to the principle that by the election the democratic will of voters should be made clear, the vote is invalid in the northwestern district. In my proposal with the opinion, it says: ▪ In view of what has been attributed above, what has been attributed to it is signed, in accordance with Article 46. The constitution and 2 mg. 1st par. Act of the General Assembly, cr. Section 5. The law is that the elections of the North-eastern district, the South-West District, the South-West Republic of Reykjavík, and the Northern Republic of Reykjavík are considered valid, but the election in the north-western district is considered invalid. In accordance with this, the following principal and vice - keepers' letters will be agreed on. The proposal presents the names of the members of Parliament and its deputy council members.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u25	Madam President. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister again: I listened to her voice, but she never showed what was really wrong. It seems that it is public opinion that should lead to invalidation of elections in the northwestern state, a great witness to the public. I would like to ask: Is there a poll on how the public views the election in the northwestern district? And once again, what's the causal relationship between the problem and the effect on the elections? What happened? And I'd like to ask the same question again if it's the highest. A minister is suggesting that the staff of Hotel City might be referring to the election; that it is cheating, so that there is a new conclusion, or that the point-of-the-concerning administration, the client of the election, elected by the General, was referring to the ideal data when he was alone in the hall? I can take the example of the F-list offering missing three votes. Is there someone who was there who changed the "F" rules or what was it that really happened? How was the final election affected? How was this really done? There's a perfect explanation for this in a conference book, perfect, that 8 D-cats and one B- song were in the C-bank. It's a human error, and it's a hand-me-down. And then I repeat it again, there are clear votes to the General on when to cancel elections, i.e. if the problem affects the election's finals. There is no other command for you except 3 mg. 120r. Act of the election for the Generals. What instructions are given at the highest? Minister depends?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u26	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the questions. First, it is absolutely possible that we will be able to base our conclusions solely on legitimate views. I think it's totally clear that it is, in my case. Hv. A senator will stick to a matter of election law and 3 mg. 120r. their law, pointing out that there is a preemptive conflict between the issue and the outcome of the election. In my speech earlier, I took detailed note that there are other aspects of this, and it is not just that in terms of legislation as such but also as the treatment of the Supreme Court of certain matters, which uses the approach to the reality that the evidence is really in the administration or could be called the reverse evidence, which is the reality here, i.e. that we cannot prove that the goal did not affect the outcome. And again and again, so that there is so much evidence, this is not about the integrity of individual employees or those who had an assignment or role in the counts of the citynes, but rather that of the community and public trust in elections.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u27	Madam President. I just want to point out that it's very important when the law is being looked at like a 3 mgr. 120. ... toreadtheword. Even in terms of general and specific standards being discussed. Lyrics in Article 3. 120 grams. is very clear. But I'd like to point out that in the highest opinion. Ministers are concerned that the government involved in its party today in the matter of Congress, which is partly illegally elected, i.e. that six different statesmen in the northwestern district are not legally and legally elected. The elections of the northwestern district are invalid. That's a lot of news. And what are you planning to do? A minister would do that? Because her opinion includes part of the matter of Congress that she is supporting.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u28	A respectable president. You're right. One senator says it's important to read, and that's what we've done for eight weeks, I think, both read and listened to the presentation of various guests and information from special sources, both in the regulations of the implementation of elections and the implementation of dictations, etc. The meeting has been 34, and the committee has been extremely well designed, and what we have emphasized in this work is not just reading and realizing things but listening to one another.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u29	President. 1st par. The Constitution of the Republic of Iceland says that there is a republic with a political government. The reason we are republics is that presidents and members of Parliament are elected nationally. Democratic elections are the basis for the authority exercised by the General, Government, and Justice. Democratic elections are essential for us to follow the authority of the legislature, tribunal, and judicious authorities because, without democratic election, taxes are violence, law, and judgment are obligatory. This was true in former communities, where people had authority that was said to come from a higher power and where it was legal for some but not all. Today, power comes from the masses, with votes in democratic elections, from people who are authorized to use the government in their behalf. Therefore, the importance of a democratic election in our society should be obvious to all as well as to the importance of such elections above all doubt. The case we've been dealing with in the past few weeks is about the safety of elections or, as stated in the terms of the election's election hearing: ▪ In the opinion of the national government it has not been confirmed by the Northwestern government that the treatment and preservation of sound sites in the district has been satisfactory. The project of the Commission has been to see if there has been adequate access to the sound site or not, because otherwise there is a possibility that elections may not be above all doubt. So I'll answer a question. paritaprevir The Year's Ármannsson Eyjólfur, before he comes up in an answer, is in a memo from the General's Office on Re-election Control Court, the book Gunnar G. Schram, by permission of Presidents: ▪ If it's clear that the end of elections has been able to determine the outcome in general, it doesn't matter who is to blame or if anyone is to blame for the errors but should invalidate the vote There is no reference to a causal relationship. Rather, it is said: "The ocean could have been. " I could pull a hat out of here: we got off the batting votes. I can pull out of the other hat one of the other things: we're here with an out-of-circus song, you can't stop it. We don't know if anyone's been replaced by outside-country terms, we don't have a staff or the head of the government to put it in, we just can't rule out that. It is simply this, and our role is to rule it out, and therefore we have a seal on optimal data so that it can be demonstrated that from the time of the voter's arrival at a speech site, no one could have applied to its contents. Now we are in a position to have the results of a previous talk done under the close supervision of the agent. There's a result. They all got along. Everything that came out of the ballast boxes had been listed here, and then new numbers come after the polling data was unsure. We'll see, here's a flaw that changed the outcome of the election. How? We have no idea, and then I quote this exact text from Gunnar G. Schram that it doesn't matter who is to blame or if anyone is to blame but should invalidate the vote. Then the question is how it is so general. Is it in general that it is enough to trust the results of an election, or should we be able to verify the results of an election? I believe we must verify the results of an election. Thus the election laws are set up, with conditions for sealing and monitoring, and so on. They are designed to prevent cheating. It is crucial that we can verify that the outcome of the election is determined by the way voters voted. It is not enough for us to trust just that employees, general or someone else had nothing to do with the evidence. It's not enough for me to say: I'm 100% sure no one meant the ideals, you just have to believe it. That's not enough. I'm supposed to be able to prove it, and I can't. The Congress of Pirata proposes a resolution of a new election throughout the country. The main reasons for re-electing are to be set aside in the report of the prime letter committee on the number and severity of failings carried out by General elections in the northwestern district of September 25, September. It is the highest fact that treatment and goods were inadequate and unsatisfactory, irrespective of all else, the success of campaigns is ignored. At that time, there were more serious problems with the votes, but there were some examples that agents had limited resources to perform careful monitoring of counts, which downstrodden the reliability of the counting, non-congressive measures, particularly in smaller votes, a counting vote started before the end of a poll meeting, allowing for the likely results to be evident before the establishments close, and as a result of a damage to the surveillance of the commissionees at that time. The design of the model book was in a swamp film that prevents checking how the counting was performed. A review was made on the basis of questionable legal rights and agencies, and the public was not invited to attend, to name just a few. All of these were accepted defects in the implementation of elections by the Commission of Advisory Committees. The results of all these mistakes are that the results of the election in the northwestern district of September 25 cannot be verified. However, the effects of the defects observed in this district are affecting the decision of the entire country, including the whole country. Because the number of Parliaments in the Northwestern district has decreased by one. That senator moves to the southwestern district, which also influences the distribution of economists across the country. Because of the nature of the election, as presented below, this new body of senators must be chosen with this new population, and it is therefore inevitable to announce national elections throughout the country. It is very clear in the terms of elections that when the election is invalid, a new election should be offered in the district and that the election day should be established as soon as possible and no later than within a month. There is no legal arrangement, and the only clue as to how her arrangement should be made is found in the words'supervised to a new election, and in the rest of the election is election made according to the instructions of this law to show. A memo given to the Commission discusses how this term vote entered the election law, which was mentioned earlier as a re-election. This meant an entire list in Reykjavík, e.g. that were to vote with exactly the same lists, candidates, the same sufficiency, and all of that, which was changed in 1959, and changed from the re-election of the elected election to the ◯ election. This points to a previous vote, e.g. to a mono-vinced and dual-cretary term where there was no senator because the person might die and just have to vote again, and that election would be due to the next total election. Still, there is a new election with new people, obviously. The Department of Justice also includes a list of elections as part of the same election, but the city's settlement was still released in 2002. There were other voters who participated in that election despite the lack of art that may not be abnormal, given short notice and so on. Still, there were new voters, people who had a birthday in that year or so on. So I think it's very clear, very clear that a vote must exactly include new elections, with everything in place, under the laws of elections to the General Assembly. It is also confirmed by this legal arrangement to set a scheduled date as soon as possible and no later than within a month. It is unclear, and published in the Justice Department memoir, whether this date should be elected within a month, the elected date of election, or whether it should be elected within a month. It must be so that the deadline should be arranged to set an elected date at a later date, no later than within a month. Because it's simply impossible to hold new elections with all due, extra-election regulations, including for people who live abroad, in four weeks. No way. It would simply be a very incredulous election to vote in such a way. For example, in 2017, a total election was referred to in which a new election was announced, a council broke, and a new election was announced in a very short period of time, in a month and a half. I think it must be considered unannounced to leave the new election on a shorter notice than it was then. There are other things that I really care about, and I only tore into my committees. I only discuss transparency with the Commission's work, and only refer to that text for interested ones. The same is true of the handling of the charges, as is the case in particular. But I'd like to briefly discuss something important. That was the main point of my not signing a paper on the preparatory committee. I'll be the first to be happy if I'm wrong about that, I'll say I'm not putting anything out on the council's professional work as far as I can see. However, this is a matter of principle, that at the premeditation committee for the hearing of a letter, the Committee has been aided by the FBI's Office and is just great. Thank you very much for this work, it was great, but unfortunately, it has been in the day that the work of this case has been handled by the same employee on a two-stage marketing basis, both as the head of the national ethic and as an employee in the General office, working on the solution of the case. It's just a simple rule in the administration board that you don't agree with two administrative levels and narrow possibilities of exceptions in this regard. If it falls inside, it's just great. I can't find out if it is, so I guess it's going to be explained. But I just need to point this out. It was like this, and I'm just gonna expect it to be explained, but it makes me feel rather uncomfortable signing up for this possibility, because I can't make sure that it's one way or another. I'll be the first to celebrate if I'm wrong, and I look forward to getting that explanation and that someone else can determine if it's inappropriate or not. It's just mine, maybe petty, short notice. I hope this is a petty notice and not something more serious, just to be completely clear. And then I changed to another. One of the points I drew attention to at the Commission's Committee for Advisory Committees was an invalid ultimatum. The prime board for the trial election letters received responses from all the senior governments asking for an invalid ex-elective law from that tip from agents said that a large number of them had been declared invalid, including an invalid number of them. ... duetothe mismanagement of election management. It must be considered unannounced to a voter who has turned his vote into a good religion who is, in effect, deprived of his right to vote because of the mistakes of others other than his own. I compare the highest court sentence in the town where it was a vote that had, in the same way as any other vote, should be classified as an invalid sub-election of some formality, e.g. the same as I'm here to mention, but be put in the vote box as a possible vote. I have no idea what was in that vote, it might have been a B-, D-, or L-program, blank vote, invalid vote or some fun reference or something like that, we have no idea of it. The point was that the results of the election were equal between one man and a fourth man of the Future Party, and therefore lots were cast over who should have the seat given to the L-list in that case. It was dear, and they came to the conclusion that this one vote - which we have no idea what was on, because it went into the jugular box, because it's well booked how all of this went forward - could have made a difference. We don't know if it was L, D, or B, if it was a D-program, it didn't matter to the conclusion of the election, but only because it could have been a L- or a B-program which would have affected the tie-up were the election made invalid. I see a parallel in this case with just the invalid para-electronic terms and the rationale that has been developed here, that there has to be a causal relationship. In other words, it does not have to be a causal relationship because of this situation, very clearly, in my opinion. The government sent us information about the registration that they had of excitatory terms. It comes, for example. until the district of Reykjavík of the South had three syllables missing, one vote in Reykjavík north, we don't know in the southwestern district, but a total of 160 votes outside of the elected meeting were invalid before they were accepted, which were said at a spoken location, as I understand, i.e. This is in the format. In the Southern District, there are five of them, and we have no idea how many of them were in the Northwestern District because there was no book, an endless story. A total of 22 votes were there. No, it was the Northeast standard that was not divided. In the northwestern state, there is no idea, it is simply a mystery how many sub-election songs were invalid there before they could arrive at an elected location. The reason for this is exactly because in this sensitivity analysis made by the national government, there were few votes in several terms and also in the whole country, e.g. had these four votes from the M-list to the V-list changed the distribution of the V-O in the Southern District, 31 votes from P to D on the national level would change the equation seat nine. Nine votes for C list in the Northwestern district would change the selection of districts for equations, two from south to northwest, and a lot of such complications. It's from the first numbers and then the second numbers come, and it's just different. Then there are 35 votes from P-list to D-list to convert to whole. But that's where we're in, if we take the statistics only on this, ranging from 29◯47 votes, which are invalid because of the ideal government mistake. It's a little up to the total vote required to change the last equationman in a national language. And according to the city's example, if there were enough people, it should invalidate national elections. But because the books or data are not accurate enough, we don't know the numbers, so we just have to say, "Unfortunately, it can't be shown that this has changed the outcome of the election. " I just want to draw attention to this to the importance of writing in a book because it is an invalidation of votes from the voters, because the voters deserve to get their votes in a count when they try. But end of tip: I have a few indications that elections are out - of - date. In my opinion, members of Congress, when they get their terms, whether they're elected terms or economists, should not worry about losing their stock if there's just one thing in the vote. It is simply so that any equations who now have a ballot in a different district but northwestern citation should only keep their terms regardless of whether or not the election in the northwest will be judged invalid. It's my opinion, but it's not like the law works, but it should be. That's the clear bounds of the responsible in the election. There was a bit of a fuss about handling the ideal data from the end of the previous count. When it's said, " Counting is over,'everyone suddenly gets it as the final number, but it's not the final number, all of a sudden you could just keep counting. There is a clear limit between the completion of the management government and handing out a task to the next person, for the administration decision is to say that counts are over and that it cannot be over-election to change its own decision in this matter. There the decision has been made under close supervision of the agency and the public that counts are complete. We're supposed to take it seriously. If there are certain factors, someone else should determine whether a re count is needed or not. It's only assumed in the new election. Finally, there is a change in the constitution, obviously all, a complete reexamination, we have a decision to do it but obviously about what we're doing exactly now, there's something that needs to be changed. We're not supposed to have the job of determining our own rights and legalties to be here. That's how it is now, damn it, but it shouldn't be like that; and let's do it during this terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u30	I want to pray. Councilmen not to swear in a speech chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u31	Let's do it during this terms, let's at least let's make the last move we're going to complete the changes in this provision of the constitution, of course, a complete review but at least on this. And in view of what has been traced here, of the problems of the implementation of elections in the northwestern district, and their impact, I suggest, in line with 46rd. The constitution and 1 mg. 1st par. Act of the General Assembly, cr. Section 5. the law, that the elections are considered invalid, and that there shall be no consent.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u32	V.E.G. President. I disagree with each other in a talk. paritaprevir The case of Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, is one of the points that he took back in his speech that I feel would be right to comment or comment, which involved what he mentioned on the proper staff of the Generals, or member of the Generals. For this reason, it is proper to consider why. paritaprevir The book of Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, was booked at the final stage of the committee's work, announced a book on Friday, and went into a book yesterday. Other committees wrote an opposing view, we could say, we could say. paritaprevir The son of Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, I wish it were done. All other members of the committee were consistent in taking a different stand on this matter than on what basis. Senator. It was based on the lack of basis for questioning the appropriate personnel or staff of the Generals in this context as a result of various factors. Of course, the main point is that all the texts from the Commission and the Advisory Committee are made up of many, the multiplicity of members of the committee themselves, who, of course, are responsible for what they say. The different members of the Generals have brought different applications into parts, usually according to our wishes on the committee, so when for that reason, it is not a reason to draw this into. In addition, the employee of the FBI office of the Generals who has employed secretarial work for the national government is either for observation or for the work of national government for any consideration on the part of these committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u33	A respectable president. Yes, as I said earlier, I hope it's very small things in me that didn't matter. But that is exactly how it is, regardless of what the individual is capable of, I'm not going to take this case in particular, but in general, if anyone is involved in a case in two administrations, it is incompetent to discuss everything else. If there's really little there, then there's such a little crowd and I hope it's somehow that way, it's not more complicated than that. I didn't have the ability to learn how much this was, didn't see comments that were in the documents, it didn't really show until just after the work of the committee, and I thought it was natural to point out that it was there, this possibility, that somehow would not come back to us sometime later, it would be possible to explain it, and I asked them that if it wasn't a booking, it would be explained to the preparatory committee, which was half done, but it wasn't mentioned that it was this employee in two places that it was about this case, a common case in the Northwestern district. Not that a national government had some opinion or such, but that the national government received the northwestern language, and a commission received the northwest language. That's where the situation is.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u34	V.E.G. President. I don't think I'm gonna wriggle too hard. A senator about this. I just wanted to give a clear point of view that other members of the committee had felt differently. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear for this. This morning, the members of the committee were given a brief summary of this information that I don't feel is a cause for concern about these factors. Of course, it was disappointing that this point of the last record would lead to failure. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson did not trust him to sign the report that all of us have been working on for all this time. But I'm sure that doesn't make any difference, for he is at the most in agreement with what is stated in the report, for he had, of course, the same approach as all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u35	A respectable president. I don't have anything to say about it. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson of a year expressed us here in a committee study a greater part of the draft board at the beginning of a meeting and is not a reason for extending our meeting in this respect. I just want to count it, and again and again that it has been really challenging, but as soon as it's been a pleasure to find the good will and harmony and to have this good cooperation we've had, first to the draft board and then to the draft board. True, from the beginning I had wanted to see a third count, so we could at least have knocked off the table with the limitations that we've all said were there, even though we would place a different understanding and emphasis on their importance, so when we're there, we're actually able to find that right at the end. I just hope that everyone will be happy whenever possible, of course we know that it won't be like that, but at least That we respect one another's opinions and give full respect to one another, first and last, since we hope that we are starting a truly wonderful season of success, let's just be kind to one another. Love does not cost anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u36	A respectable president. I'd like to explain to you some of the work I've been doing in the last few weeks, first to the draft board and then to a draft board elected here at the Assembly Hall. Detailed information on the work and its yields is available in the report of the preparatory committee for the study of elections and in the Committees I am involved with together with five other members of the committee, as well as a number of data on the work that is available on the General Assembly website. Hv. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson of a year, president of the Committee, has attributed the above opinion to the committee, but I still want to go over and enter various aspects of the work. First, I'd like to mention that a draft board has a role after each election to the Generals to check the terms made by the National Congress. According to Congress, nine members of the council shall meet after the end of the General election in preparation for the investigation of the members of the first session. It is today. The role of the Committee was actually divided into five factors: to consider the election of the individual senators, to consider the differences made by the executives of the Supreme Court, to consider votes, to consider the books made by commissions, to consider the votes made by commissions, to consider the election nonstatutory, and to review books made by government officials. This year, as the world knows, the work of the Committee has proved to be more extensive than ever, especially as a result of the follow - up process in the northwestern district. Of course, it was like many of me, and probably most of the voters of this country had a real shock when it was found that numbers in the Northwestern district changed to the opinion of a draft on Sunday, September 26, to the extent that it affected the distribution of stocks. As a result, a debate arose that there might be some doubt as to whether the results of an election in the northwestern district were correct, whether the results were actually reflecting the will of voters in that district. Thus, the task that the committee faced was far more extensive and extensive than before, but I will say that all members of the committee were humbly approaching the project and ready to go to all the work required. First, I want to thank you for the cooperation of the Committee, which was marked by good cooperation and respect for different views and different approach to the project. Today, we submit the commission to other generals who will vote for available suggestions later in this meeting. The work of the Committee began after the National Committee met for a meeting on October 1, after which the national election government formed elections for election reports received from the highest terms of elections. According to the National Committee's conference on the implementation of the elections in the northwestern district, there has been no confirmation from the Northwestern government that therapy and the preservation of elections in the district was sufficient. I understand that the Protocol of the National Committee is directly directed to the Commission on this matter specifically, to the custody of provisions, to the role of the General but not to the vote of individual senators. But, as we know, the commission was also charged with the implementation of the election. As a result, more and more work has been done by the Committee to investigate and preserve goods at the Northwestern Summit and to provide information on the best data and their management. In addition, in view of the number of votes received by the General Assembly and the tips related to them, there have been more efforts to provide information and explanations from the Ministry of Justice and Justice. Then I'm going to go over history rather quickly, and in short, I'm going to say that the committee has worked hard to review the speech process and there's a flaw in the implementation of the book entry, the access to the agent's access to the count process, the execution of count reviews after the failures were discovered in the category of votes, and there was a defect in the possession of ideals during the conference of the head management of the Northwestern district. The report of the Committee is thoroughly traced to this and, as a result, an assessment of the impact of defect in the custody of the provisional funds will have to be made on the outcome of the election. Then to the legal terms. As we have seen, 3 mg. 120r. a law of elections to the Generals said that if they fail, the election of a senator, which may have influenced the outcome of the election, his election was invalid. Is it in accordance with the principle that voters should be able to trust that the outcome of elections will stand and their democratic will be respected? Of the law, the principle is that the senator's vote should not be made invalid unless it is reasonable to assume that the bill has affected the outcome of the election, i.e. that specific guidelines should be used. Applying a standard standard in such situations would only be considered as a goal to influence the outcome of the election. I don't think the point of possession is that the solution to the case is universal. Therefore, the point has been to see if it can be viewed as being so that, despite the temporary undefeated data, the voters would still like to be elected by the Council election of September 25. So I'd like to cut down on points established in the committee opinion, and I think it's relevant to the assessment of the effect of the problem on the possession of provisions. First, the video from surveillance cameras shows people traffic through the counting room during the conference break of the head-elector. Those who go through there are four employees of Hotel City and oddly head management, then we're talking about the whole room, not the area where the ideal data is stored. On the other hand, officials passing the area have made clear their travels, which were careful to lock the back door in a talking hall and to take up unclean dishes. They were two employees. They show cameras that no workers walked through the counting room after 9,20 or when last numbers from elections appeared in the media. While there was one point in the hall, the hall was open, and there was hope of another elected manager who was also in the hotel, and at the same time the staff of the hotel walked about and took care of business in the front part of the hall. In that sense, there was not a point in the talk zone alone during that period. When an odd beacon received a call from a government government that reported little difference in votes, another representative from the head of the administration arrived at the count zone. There is also the fact that a survey of the Commission's prime letter has shown that the number of used obligatory and unused lawsuits would match the total votes the Department of Justice had given to the Northwestern General. There is an explanation for accounting error in a Norwegian -western edition newspaper in the morning of the blundering day. Then, the pre-committee has reviewed the provisional data, all the up-to-date markets in the Northwestern district, in a thorough manner, in order to determine whether the ideal data was involved. During this review, at least every approved package leaflet was checked. twice. In short, there is no evidence of the terms either valid or invalid, which would have led to a decrease in terms of C-list. In view of this opinion, I believe that nothing was shown to be true of these provisions. There will also be no evidence that the optimal data does not contain any information other than those on which the national ultimatum was involved. Finally, there is some evidence to suggest that human error has been made in a vote in the northwestern state, as indicated by the Supreme Court in its booking, so that although counting and repetitive votes give the correct image, there were errors in the initial categories of the votes. In particular, I would like to mention that we like to talk about errors with the count of votes, but I believe that a survey of the provisional data showed that votes are exactly the part of the speech process that constitutes the greatest danger of errors. That factor is the most time - consuming and the greatest danger of failure. In addition, more than one point in the Commission survey suggested that there had been a willingness to move forward, doing faster than the original procedure allowed. The classification has been confirmed and counting was changed in the centre of the project. In view of the above factors as a whole, I believe that there has been no evidence to suggest that the subsidiary market has affected the outcome of the election in the northwestern district, i.e. has led to the change in terms of proposals for the second count votes. At the same time, it cannot be seen that the changes were attributed to knowing that a senator, his agent, or those who made such changes were deliberately responsible for the limitations mentioned in the previous article. 3 mg 120r. Act of the election for the Generals. However, I would like to conclude, as is stated in the panels and others have come along here, that despite the above conclusions I and our teamed members, and that proposals have revealed significant targets for the implementation of votes in the Northwestern district, it is important to learn from and avoid repeating itself. In this connection, I would like to stress that the indications and tips proposed to IV are followed. a section of the pre-election committee. It is important that governments and political organizations be on the lead in improving intelligence and harmonizing roles in elections. I just want to come in to the chapter on the tips and correctations that others have received here, what the committee listed, after a consideration of the preparatory committee on the forthcoming agreements, charges, books, and other matters, most important of all, to promote. In view of the induction of new election laws and the possible further changes in election laws now in bringing them into force. It is important to follow a uniform procedure in the implementation of an election. Everything in our work has revealed it. It is important to set breakpoints for susceptibility analysis and how to re-check or review any kind of outcome reported. It is important that political groups as well as the administrations, elections, show respect for the work of agents. I want to emphasize from here on out that we, who are members of the political party, share in our categories the importance of the election. Then it is important that we respect the laws and rules that we have set for disabled people at our homes and probably be equal to them in order to ensure participation in democratic elections. For the treatment of sub-election criteria, see chapter 5. Like what? paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson went over the past, as a new election law in effect assumes, that the payment of extra-election laws will be more solid than it is likely to be today. There is also a tip on the Commission for the decision-to-treat analysis. Finally, I want to reiterate that in my work on the Committee, I have been guided by the role of members of Congress to determine the value of ballots on the basis of existing law. Congress officials must not take the task of looking at what is involved in the decision - making process, becoming preoccupied with the appearance of a decision, or the conclusion of the decision is intended to teach someone else how to do it. Here I have explained my view of work, explained why I insist on a proposal that elections are valid and that the stocks of the nobility and the militia that are listed in the proposal that I sign will be accepted. That's my suggestion, along with five other committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u37	A respectable president. We'll discuss the big issues we've got here. Congress is committed in the Constitution, to evaluate whether our letters are valid or not. I have been given the weighty job of serving as a member of the Committee to Preliminaries and the Advisory Committee to review this point. I'm going to review our roles, how we came to this conclusion, and what we had to find out about the work we were doing. First, I'd like to make a decision that this was our job, to answer if the terms were valid or invalid. That's what we were supposed to consider, and that's why. The members of the council are to make a decision now. This project is only a little bigger now, and especially because of the national ultimatum that it has not been confirmed that the ideal data in the Northwestern economy was maintained in an adequate or safe way. So our work has been a great deal of effort to see how things were being done, out of this publication. I believe this great document here is a description of the work we worked to try to answer that question, so that we can come to a conclusion on that opinion I would like to state, however, that it is not our job here to investigate the matter, considering if any cause has taken place, that is the police. As the people around the world know, a police investigation was involved, and our role and the police are completely theirs either, so that it is said, because it has rightly been spoken of a number of problems on this project, which we all agree that it was. Therefore, the outcome of our decision, whether it is valid or invalid, is important to the police to determine whether the law has been broken and what the consequences are, and so on. The committee's weighty work was varied, and I want to do it very briefly. I thank you very much for your cooperation with the Committee, which I think was of great importance to this challenge and since the unacceptable and difficult situation had to be done. We agree that the trust in democratic elections is fundamental, so it was important that we could work with a reliable and professional approach to the committee. A great deal of time the committee decided on how the committee should work, so that this would be the most transparent, professional, and done in the best way. So a great deal of time at the start of the Committee's work began to find out where we stood, which sources we had, what information we could acquire, and how we were going to do the work. Then there was another factor that was also extremely important to the work of the Committee to start with. It was talking to the various scholars in the field of law from the university community and elsewhere in order to identify our legal role. What do the laws say about this? What have examples of judgment and other examples taught us about this? So before we began to dig deep into what happened, we had been trying to get a firm hold on what the legislation would tell us. This was very important, and it helped us to find out exactly what the facts were and what it was important to find out about the committee's investigation. It was a bit loud and red thread through all these initial conversations with the jurists, so to speak, that we were talking about democratic elections that people came in good faith to participate. The democracy had spoken so that they had to go as far as they could in making the outcome of the election, allowing voters to act. Therefore, it would take a lot to make sure that the election's outcome or the election would not be passed. It can never be undisputed to invalidate democratic elections. There must be strong evidence to that effect. It was totally undisputed. That's exactly what the campaign is saying in the many-sounding legal code here today, whether it could have affected the elections, the goal we all agree on. There were a lot of problems, but the primary piece of art here is protection of goods. Were the optimal data secure? Was the ideal data meant, and was this the result? This included our work, and it was enormous. In order to evaluate and try to prove the exact nature of what happened there, many things were done. We got a lot of files and files. We got data from the police, including the police. ... police, videocassettes and stuff like that. I'd also like to say that everyone who came to this, whether it was the Supreme Court itself, the hotel staff, the artisans, the agents, anyone involved in it, was very cooperative. We were always interviewed and responded when it was requested and received the information requested. That was important. We then went ourselves to explore the crime scene, our ideals, and our reluctances, or as we have sometimes said, we followed virtually every conspiracy theory that came up, or could be created, and tried to rule it out. After all that work, you could say that you've been collecting mousse ice cream and trying to sort it out. After that, I believe that we on the committee know better how much was done there that evening than the local people, who were there about 30 people working 24 hours in a relatively narrow space. This was not the ideal situation for such difficult and important work. So after all of this, I want to say that I am absolutely convinced that the suggestion that I stand here with five others is the one. That is the conclusion the law tells us to reach. She's the only thing I think we should do now. Even though we are here at the General Assembly, where the politicians are most in charge, we must follow what the law says. After taking part in all this work, reviewing all of this, and getting all the mossalis to fit together, I am convinced that we are making the right decision because we have the democratic conclusions from the votes of September 25 of that year. correspondent in the Northwestern district. This is the correct conclusion. Everything we learned indicates that, according to the book of the Supreme Government, and it has made a good request, a human error was involved. That's all there is to suggest. Although we cannot tell exactly where the human error occurred, all evidence indicates that it has made human mistakes more than once in a series of votes. There is a number of factors that could cause that. It often seems that if one goes wrong somewhere, because of circumstances, disorganization, lack of knowledge, being in a hurry, it's fatigue, whatever it is, many other things can go wrong. Looks like something like that happened over there. But there's no such thing as, there's no real doubt, there's no suspicion, no indication, no accusation or anything about the votes. The goal was not to have the ideal data sealed during the ceremony of the Supreme Court - there is no doubt, suspicion, or probability that it was the basis for the provisions. I am absolutely convinced of this from the conclusion, so I find that this proposal pleases me. I agree that there are a lot of people who have to take responsibility from here so that it won't happen again. I'd also like to state that it's not just with someone or with any one of them or with one of them or with one of them. It's not like that. Certainly, the council knew of many the limit to which this human error was possible. The Congress has responded to the many new election legislations that are taking place for years, and I have to say that it is quite satisfying to say that much was responded by that law and was informed - although the law had not been accepted, it would have been possible to be better in general in these elections and not just in Northwestern politics. This has been discussed about an out-of-the-house convention principle and to coordinate a procedure, about providing better instructions, inform voters better, inform the agent members, and there the political parties must look into themselves, inform and inform their agents who are to be part of the guarantee that this process will all work out properly if someone else slips. These are all the things we have to take seriously, so we must be sure not to return because our mission after this case is completed is to rebuild trust in the implementation of elections in our democratic state. I think it's very important. Many people have to think about what happened there and follow it and take responsibility to themselves, so at the high Council we can't compromise. What I've been through here is that we were assigned to check if the quality data was valid or invalid. After much and thorough research in the pre-election committee, in good cooperation with everyone involved, it was a good thing to do the job, and so on, we have come to the conclusion, the six in question, that the ideal data show the democratic right results. It was our job to make a decision in this, but it was not for anything else as punishment. To say that I want to thank my members very much for their good cooperation and hope that future elections will do better than they did this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u38	Madam President. Before the council, we are taking a stand on the approved elections of the senators elected in the entire election of September 25, past. As a custom, a preparatory committee was assembled to prepare for the work of a letter - making committee arranged for the first meeting and to perform a preparatory committee with an enormously extensive report after its extensive study of the language. There was great loneliness within the Commission on professional and transparent practices that were closely followed by the committee. First, I'd like to thank the members of the Committee and the staff of the Generals in particular for the cooperation. A draft board opened a meeting for scholars and brought in a number of visitors, made a statement, and thoroughly studied the ideal data in the Northwestern district. A study in my mind showed that the results of the Northwestern government sent a national government and a national elected government based on their decision to publish elections. If it is my opinion that these findings reflect the wishes of voters in the district, I will now review the reasons behind my conclusions. As the entire body of Congress knows, this is a major and serious matter. As it is known, the Constitution assumes that the Council itself determines whether members of Congress are properly elected. To test elections and elections of the newly elected senators, it falls to the head of the draft board. In order to pay for this study, the active president of the General Assembly called up a panel for an investigation of the terms of the elections published on October 1 according to the results of the total elections of September 25. According to the Commission's legislation, the election and their election together with the differences and books that the agency has made on the decision and the implementation of the election together with the votes of the election shall be considered. The Commission agreed that on the work of the Committee, the Parliamentary Act and the Council of Staff, as agreed. Then the commission set out a procedure established by the President of the Generals. There is no shame that a preliminator has had such extensive work to do in the wake of all the campaign elections in Iceland. The committee held 34 formal meetings and published their data as well as meeting projects, as well as giving the personal budgetary committee a complete report on their investigation. The report reviews the limitations that the committee believes were on the conduct of the General election, but there is reason to make clear that a goal that may be a campaign does not automatically go to their inadequate election. In view of the national government's indication of interest in sufficiency in the Northwestern district, the Commission specifically investigated these limitations and gives the study a good account of the report. It is clear to me, Madam President, that the goal is considerable and in many places a pot is broken in the sorting and counting votes of the district. I encourage members of the Parliament to examine the interest profile of the preparatory committee in order to understand more clearly the facts. 3 mg. 120r. The order of elections to the Council has led the Council to the conclusion that a conflict with the value of General elections is fundamental to the principle that the election should not be invalid if it is shown that the end has not affected the outcome of the election. In other words, evidence of a causal relationship between the argument and the outcome of the election must be provided. The main concern, then, is whether the results of the election can be trusted despite the problems involved in obtaining goods, and it must be considered to the points that have been investigated by the Committee and discussed. First, it should be noted that the committee concludes in its report that nothing in her study points to the quality data involved. Data from surveillance cameras show that during the time of the regional work at the end of the head of the management board, alone with optimal data at noon, September 26, the staff of the hotel were at the same time working in the field. The president of both the head of the administrations and the staff deny that they had anything to do with the provisions before review began following a call from the National Clinic government that there was a narrow difference in the election. Thus, it can be said that there was not actually a pointy person in the area, and it is unlikely that he had an impulse or opportunity to deal with the evidence. From the available data, it is very unlikely that the staff of the hotel would have had room to deal with the data, but there is no evidence to suggest that. The report shows that at the hearing of the premium committee, the number of terms used and unuseds was associated with the total number of votes sent to ultimatums in the northwestern district. The Commission also reviewed blank and invalid votes during their investigation, and the terms of the proposal list D, C, J, and M, which had the greatest transfers from previous figures to those sent by the head of government to a report to the national ethic government. In addition, the preparatory committee reviewed all the quality data in the Northwestern district and looked through every bill. Clearly, the differences in the classification of votes that were observed there do not change the outcome of the election in the northwestern state. Therefore, the Commission did not consider the need for an overall re-election. It is important to observe this fact. All of these observations suggest that the votes were not meant during the pre-election data. Based on the information obtained by the Commission, the procedure was changed during the night, which may have increased the chances of categorical errors and caused the changes in the terms of the proposals at the subsequent counts. Hence, the explanation that changes have occurred as a result of human error must be considered highly likely. A respectable president. I'd like to keep it in mind that the goal that has been given to possessing an economy in the Northwestern district is certainly there. According to this, he is not qualified to influence the outcome of the election in the northwestern district. There is also no evidence that a member of the body, his agent, or those with whom he or she deliberately laid a responsibility for the limitations involved in the possession of provisions. It is my position that the government had a duty to rescind vote when errors in the category were discovered. It is common to be counted back in the election, for instance, if negotiations fail. The results of the campaign cannot be considered to be influenced by errors that arise on the classification and count and then are corrected by their nature, since these results had not been confirmed by the Supreme Government or sent to the national government to confirm final figures in the district. It may also be that, for example, changes in the outcome of an election can occur in theory when it comes to a judicial decision. In fact, the process of election will not end until the General Assembly has given a valid vote for the members of Congress. A respectable president. It is our job to see if the voters' will have achieved success in the elections conducted on September 25, legal grounds. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The voters should be able to trust that the last election will continue and that their democratic will is respected. The belief that a goal that cannot be shown that has affected the outcome of elections leads to an invalidation is in opposition to the democratic rights of voters who chose in good faith that the end of the election was going on. The study conducted by the European Commission has revealed a need for a much more thorough work toward new elections in Iceland. It is important to arrange for the election process here in Iceland to be largely agreed. It is painful to think that the faults and lack of formality as well as human error should cast a shadow on the underlying leaders of democracy. The good people who worked as citizens at the elections in good faith have been under great stress because of the sequence of events outlined in the Commission's report. The disappointments of the candidates who were temporarily inside are also understandable, and I feel for them and their supporters. The same can be said of those members of the council who for all this time have had to wait with uncertainty about their lot in life. Madam President. It will now come according to the Constitution to determine the value of terms published by the government of the United States. It is my conviction that a ballot letter of 63 members of Congress is valid from the evidence available and the legal basis required by the election law. Finally, I would like to mention my thanks to the chairman and to the committee of the draft board for a good cooperation that has been marked by respectful and careful management. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u39	A respectable president. Being the last in line after the fine members of my group has obvious advantages. I could be careful not to fall down here on the platform, and then I'll be especially careful not to use a child's curse. I could not have anticipated that this would be the subject of my first talk here at a dignified General. Nor would I have thought of the scope of the hard work given to a board of letters in the past few weeks and months. There is no emissary. But that may be the case. It is appropriate that my first words in pontu turn to that work, work to prepare and study the support of the elections that led us here, to trust in the outcome of elections, and that the democratic will of voters was respected. This has already been a review of the results of a major stock commission and we believe that it is accompanied by the voters' will be brought forward. While members of the Parliament are under the constitution solely bound to their convictions, the requirement is, of course, for them to comply with the law, not with their own ideas or views on the law. The results of the Committee are the result of the extensive, careful work of the Committee and in accordance with the terms of election law. This conclusion is not the easiest or best result according to the other or those scales. Rather, it is simply the correct conclusion according to law. Like what? paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson has pointed out that a second outcome, as a result, is not likely to be the preferred result for the Independence Party. But it is not possible for me and the members of the Committee to agree with this opinion other than what we have the law. We do not succumb to the responsibility, and we do not succumb to the responsibility of the work that the committee produced. To say that it is necessary to make a decision what I found to do in elections as I did in the northwestern district, although careful research has revealed that it did not affect the outcome of the election. It simply comes with a great responsibility to play a role in the implementation of elections, and there was no evidence of respect for democratic elections. We need to make sure that this doesn't happen again.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u40	A respectable president. I would like to start by stating that we are today in our situation, that the work of the head of government in a single district has led to the need for a special investigation by the council, a study that has been conducted for weeks, that has required practice, implementation, how voters were secured and protected. This alone is a judgment against the work of those involved. I would likewise like to state that I have found the Senatebaptism Committee to approach this subject and this study respectfully for the project, and I thank her very much for her well-worked. I've been heard and seen both in this room and in public discussion, that within the Advertising Committee it is solely thought that the stocking errors in this district have been serious. In fact, I don't think there's going to be an argument or that way. The answer, therefore, is the result of serious mistakes. The following task is whether the covering letter will be agreed or not. It makes no difference to me that the project is merely evaluating the defect and the practice in relation to the conditions of law. I can't afford to let my position on elections go in the way I view the failings of this district. It's an independent assessment of the implementation of elections and practices that are going to be in charge. I base my position on available data and my overall assessment of incidents, and I quite admit that I have found a decision in this matter to be very difficult. I can see it so that here are two basic goals and two basic principles and the balance lists between them. On the one hand, the elections, of course, serve the obvious function of promoting voters. It is the right of the voters to have the desired return. Of course, the right to vote is, as we all know, the basic right of the people of the land and the will of the people to stand. At the same time, voters must be able to trust that their votes will get the right way. It is also a democratic right and as important to the voter's right to make a campaign in a way that can be trusted, to be trusted that the will has come through. That's a basic course. I find that it takes a lot to get the votes invalid, that the votes be invalid, and then the job must not be approached so that a slight variation from law can lead to that. It's dangerous ideologies, it's dangerous democracy. We need to be aware of this, and we need to be specific in defending the voter's will from the danger of pushing it aside, away, because of factors that have little or no relevance to the implementation of elections. But the other thing is that the Council's rules for implementing elections serve exactly the purpose of defending this voter's right and of being able to trust that will get the right thing to do. That's why we've set votes on the duties and responsibilities of those who are involved in the implementation of elections. It is also important that we not only consider the rules of form and form. These practices, these implementation rules, these numbers on counting, etc., we know the mistakes below, are put in security precisely to protect the voter's sacred rights. We, therefore, cannot afford the luxury of approaching the project, so we are going to accept all the tactics, any faults, no matter what if they lead to our lack of confidence in the outcome. We cannot agree that the public cannot trust that the outcome of the election does not mirror their will. A respectable president. In this particular example, it is clear that in many ways the rules of law were violated on how to defend the votes of voters and, at the same time, other measures such as the handling of questionables. Right away from the accounting of the national government, we can see the real picture. The book is historical, and it shows that the government did not believe that there was information to be provided that work was to be done so that it could be blessed. It runs in the book, saying under the permission of a president: ▪ Such a national government can build the distribution of members on solid ground, but it needs to ensure that the reports of state-of-the-consistencies are based on adequate information. There is a key theme: a solid basis for the decisions, sufficient information on the distribution of the Parliamentarians. It was also attributed to an variation in the outcome of the election in the northwestern district, as reported in the media, to the extent that there was an impact on the distribution of intersectors. Therefore, efforts were made to provide further information from the Supreme Committee on the implementation of the categories and speech in all terms but specifically requested that the head-of-the-view administration provided information on the procedure in registries, on what will be explained in the total number of invalid terms and the change in the number of invalids between counts and recoverys, a procedure in re-counting, a change in the number of invalid bills and explanations there - it is clear that there is a fundamental basis for the implementation of elections. As we know, the results of the national government were that there had not been sufficient confirmation from the Supreme Court that the treatment and control of financial funds had been sufficient. At that time, for the Allegorical Commission, and in the investigation, to review the incident, to review the evidence as far as possible, I feel that she deserves credit for her work on that subject, and to the legal basis of the case. In his booking, by permission of the president, the government stated what was under: They also take into account the importance of international trust in the implementation of elections. These words are of great importance to me; the more important thing to the general state of confidence in the implementation of elections. Thereafter, the government, as we also know, runs that it is the role of the Parliament to investigate, by permission of the President, whether there may be any problem with the implementation of an election that might have affected their final outcome... From these words it is evident that the government of the state is flaunting the matter to the council. She flaunts that there may be inconspicuousness to the extent that they can have influenced the outcome of the election. And that is our subject today and has been the subject of the preliminaries for the past seven to eight weeks. It is not that it took eight weeks for the council to sit and read and cover 3 mg. 120r. a vote, as if someone in this council were an understanding. The subject is a little more complicated than that. It's not enough for humans to just have locks. The subject is not either more comfortable or simpler to continue the Senate work tomorrow, nor is it because of our position on the possibility of a vote. Its misdeeds and misdeeds are before me, and the election is in my mind an evil choice. On the other hand, the subject should not be that someone sees an opportunity in having a single example chosen again or in the whole country or that he is afraid to vote. A respectable president. The work of the odd - edge administration of the Northwestern government has, in itself, undermined people's trust. It is known that, as I mentioned at the outset, the fact that this vast, extensive study had to be done and had to be done. It violates public trust that this must have happened. There is also the possibility that by the second count a vote changed the vote number of volunteers in this district that influenced the distribution of an equationarian in the district and national reference. There are other factors, such as the reduced wealth of bills that I remember about 12 and the growing numbers of invalid bills remind me of 11. That is why the changes that led to the result changed, changing. New figures had an impact on the outcome of this and other districts in the country. Of course, we all know that story, this dramatic transformation; the glass roof that was broken was not found to be broken at all, etc. Five senators fall out, five go in. And, of course, there is a significant change in the Council of the Council for 63 members. A respectable president. On account of the preparatory letter board, the work of the Committee has gone further and the committee is in my mind, and I'm thinking of all of us in this room, thank you for the position. There has been a great deal of work in trying to shed light on the events and enlightenments, yet there are aspects of the work being carried out and these are the same as the government of the land. Thus, the great work has not completely eliminated uncertainty in these areas. I remind you of the U.S. government's comments on sound decisions and sufficient information on the distribution of the Parliamentarians. The form of a vote has become clearer, but it has not improved. There is a possibility that votes were undefeated against law regulations and contrary to the purpose of law for a few hours. And as I mentioned earlier, and I have felt there was a red thread in all the talks here today, of course, there were serious problems with the implementation of elections, faults that went against the clear principles of law, and went against the laws that serve the vital role of defending votes. These terms of elections protect a wide range of interests, and these laws are against which the votes are to be protected. In my mind, the most important factors are these anomalies from the rules on how to protect the quality data, that the ideal data remained in open boxes for some hours in a space that was not fully locked. Of course, that is always a serious fault. Information on the treatment of invalid votes is unclear and there is also an explanation for the change in the terms of proposals. They're vague. I can't, and I don't intend to have an opinion as to why it was, so it doesn't exist. I'm in this relationship, and I'm specifically underlining that I'm not insinuating or detracting, not talking about integrity like that or anything in this context, I'm simply pointing out these facts, that the explanation simply isn't quite there. It has not been established how the increase of the invalid bills is present, what mistakes have been made to those who were considered invalid. And then, of course, it remains that a few votes in this outstanding example could have and deeply influence the outcome in this and in others. When these three factors are weighed together, treated in whole, it is my opinion that we are on the feet of a man to confirm the terms of a ballot in the district. A respectable president. I started by saying that it is disappointing that this matter is being treated in this room and that this situation has come up. I have both sympathy and respect for differing viewpoints as to how to handle the matter, and I know that there are differences in the viewpoints of this case. I'm going to let me assume that we're all getting closer to the situation based on an assessment of the severity of the problem under legal conditions. I feel, however, that I do not have the confidence that the project will live up to the requirements we make to defend the votes and defend the voters' wishes. Trust is also in my mind an independent change in this matter, although it is not the point that makes a difference in my mind. But there is a view that the system needs to function, and it needs to be revealed to the public in that way. The changes turned out to be the experienced ones, and they simply do not have a complete explanation. It is in my mind that a very serious matter is to invalidate elections from the main point of view that voters should be able to trust that their democratic will is respected and that it appears in published numbers. The dressers should be able to trust that the outcome will come, that much will be needed to deal with it. But don't forget, it is also a serious matter to overlook the rights of the voter's defense capital. And here we have serious flaws. There is uncertainty about several factors, and there is evidence that there were changes that affected the whole country. The rules serve to ensure that the voter's right and will are protected and guaranteed. I have asked myself, " By this approach, Is the goal being set low or the threshold too low, too low, dangerously low? ' If this conclusion should occur, will the reference to such an example be made to invalidate elections in some minor error? You see, it's not like that. The fault was of nature and so serious that it is far beyond that. A respectable president. This case is complicated to me, but at the same time simple. And when the case is summed up, there are some factors, in my mind, basically three, that work together so that when the case is deemed complete, it is my conclusion to invalidate the elections in the northwestern district, although it will lead to a vote, as little exciting as it is in my mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u41	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. There's only one thing about the invalid interpretation of the law of total elections in Article 3. 120r. which I wanted to ask. Because I didn't quite catch it in her speech. It was whether it was necessary to establish some sort of causal relationship between the problem and the success of the election so that an invalidation can be considered, whether it feels that it does not need to interpret the law that is the problem that we need to follow, that is the only thing the lawgiver has given us to guide us on how to handle such matters. Does it feel that there is no need to show in some way any context, some causal relationship between the defect, which is certainly there, and between the outcome of the elections that are also available, so that the culminating process can be applied? This is what I say because the law says that invalidation is permitted if you want to -- if you think, not just if it might be, or if it might be possible. It is said that a form of reasoning can be said to have a definite indication that it needs to be somewhat similar to the fact that this defect had such an effect.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u42	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question. Of course, that's how, I think, in most of us, and I hope to all that we've read the data, an incident, what's up, and what's missing, exactly from the conditions and conditions of the New Committee, which is available to us, and this expression, if you think it might be possible. It is my opinion that when this is taken up as a whole, what the problem was, what changed between the first number and the second, the broad impact it had over the whole country, we have reached the threshold that it may be expected that they will fail, and the defects that are carried out are linked to what happened there. However, I would like to reiterate that I have read this report. I have not listened to the reports of those who came before the committee. I'm not here to argue that someone's actions were indiscriminately working in some way that is the reason. It is simply a comprehensive assessment of these three key points that leads to my assessment of the conditions of the law and the events involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u43	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. The reason I ask is that I feel that the law contains, that I do not make proof, but it is a rule of order on how to evaluate things. Thus, in view of my assessment of the arrangement, it is being suggested that it must rather be reasoned with the probability that there is a link between the defect and the outcome but that the law is neutral toward it. And not that they are expected to have some reverse evidence load.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u44	A respectable president. I have heard about their vision of how they approach interpretation of this requirement that some members of the council feel that it is sufficient to read the article. I think it'll be a good idea if you interpret it and use it as well. It's not enough for a man to be on trial for airlocks. But I believe that, and that's what I was trying to frame into that when the case is taken into account, at the time of the incident, we're reaching the threshold that we're not talking about any reverse evidence in it, there's enough evidence that we can look at it this way. To say that, I agree with the views that have been heard here that trust is a self-separated change in these areas. This is shown in the government's academic papers, this point in your becoming the trust of the cities, e.g. to the election by conducting the project in a way that no questions arise. I also mentioned in my speech that I don't feel that a slight variation of order can lead to an invalid election. But I thought that in a speech, a comprehensive assessment of the evidence made the threshold of this law possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u45	The president wants to say that on the Council Board, changes have now been made. Ingi Indriði Stefánsson. The proposal will also be published on the General Web site.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u46	A respectable president. Of course, it's a little special to be standing here for the first time. I think most of the people in this room can quite agree that it is, so you speak personally, a little big time to be here for the first time. I feel a little sad, though, that this case is actually being assessed by the council as to whether my contracts are valid or not. It's about 16 people's ballots and I'm one of the 16 members of Congress under here. Although it is not likely that the vote would affect my seat, there is still a possibility. It's a bad spot for all of us. She's totally doglike, and I agree with all the words that have been made here to say that there's a lot of reproach and serious things happening in the implementation of the election in the northwestern district. And I think I can be absolutely honest, and I'm going to allow myself to argue that no matter how the voters later in voters, we all consider these events that took place there during the election procedure, these events cannot be repeated. I find it a little difficult to stand here and to back up some material conclusion under my own ballot. I'm not going to take it lightly, and I'm going to keep in mind that I'm, of course, bound by the constitution. The Constitution tells us that this cup is at the council. It's our job to decide the value of stocks. However, the Constitution also tells us that when we make decisions at the council, we are bound only to our convictions. Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson came in handy earlier when he said that it was not the proper order, a natural order, that the council should exercise this authority. I'm going to take my heart to that word. I don't think it's possible that we generals are judges on their own in this situation, this gravely serious situation. However, it is here with us, and that situation makes me feel compelled to acknowledge my position on the vote that awaits us. There's a doubt that more of my initials and district letters are valid. There is a great doubt about that. There have come many counts, both to the stock board and to police charges. No matter what the outcome, the European Court of Human Rights will be reported. Above this, we are judged in the same European Court of Human Rights in a Belgian language, where we all know where this is just being done, and it's shocking that Congress itself will determine the value of Congress's terms, no matter what kind of arrangement it is. This really puts me in a position to reflect on normal questions about suitable and incompetentness. I am aware that the members of the council are standing here in a pita representing matters that in no way affect the entire population. We're deciding what our tax system looks like. We are deciding what kind of health care the Kingdom offers. Of course, we're deciding whether and where to build roads, tunnels, and bridges, and so forth, along the streets and by nature, these are all decisions that affect our personal lives because we're just participants in this society like any other. So the proper rules, the incompetent rules, may not be quite the same with members of Congress as they generally walk and act in a administrative capacity. Nevertheless, when we are in that position, and now I refer again to the constitution to the conviction of our senators, to appreciate for ourselves whether or not we should have the right to stand here in this chair and speak, reason our case, offer suggestions, Congress, and other matters, I feel that it is just a much bigger question than the one I referred to earlier. When this situation is all of these charges, all this doubt is put together somehow in our arms, I can really find no other conclusion than that Sigmar Guðmundsson is pretty much the last man in the country to decide whether Sigmar Guðmundsson should sit at the General when the charges are many, when we have the examples of judgment from Europe, and when we have the imminent case again, no matter what the votes will be done. So I'm going to sit with some votes in this matter. I hate to have to, but it's the right thing to do. I'm going to make it clear, however, that even though we are 16 members of this position, we all must have the freedom to evaluate these matters differently, and I, of course, respect the right of members of Congress to find a different conclusion than the one I'm describing here for me. Of course, this series of events that took place in the northwestern district affects democracy directly. We're trying to find out what happened. We're trying to sort this thing out, so it's a good thing. I think, of course, there will always be that way, no matter what happens, there will be some disagreements. But at least I'd like to at least. notes that it is a source of great comfort to note that the council has been able to get individuals to sit on this preparatory committee, and they have been able to work there, as it were, and in the way that has been assigned. I haven't seen anything but the fact that there was a lot of work to be done for me. Then, of course, people decide whether there is one correct decision in this matter. Of course, men can do it in a number of cycles, but all the charges, all considered above, what lies ahead, tell us that this is not a simple matter, and it is not trivial. I would like to expand, allow me to use this opportunity, and expand my discussion a little because we're, of course, talking about the final election. We're talking about leading people's democratic will right into this case. Although we have it bound in law and order that democracy should be active and it should be fair and normal, we still have it somehow bound in our rules that it is not quite so. I have every reason to discuss this with you at the council today. I think, for example. Very peculiar, because we're talking about democracy and because we're talking about choosing voters in the country, that we have that position in every election after another, that the level of Congress is not in harmony with the vote that's behind them in elections. After these elections, we are here to form a position upstairs that the advance party has one place too much, and the Independence Party has a single seat too little. I'm no particular amateur for expanding the Independence Party, but I would like us to be the members of Congress not only doing this case in the northwestern district, so that it is important that we also make sure that the democratic will of the people is done properly when it comes to decommissioning the terms of democratic elections. It can be taken even further. Although you can better understand the argument behind the conflicting votes between parts of the country than the conflicting votes between classes, I also feel that it is a debate that can be dealt well with in the context of what we are discussing here, which, of course, is that the democratic will of the people is involved. So I feel that when the council gets to work trying to see how this situation can come back, both that there's going to be such a mess in the election and that we can possibly create a fence that we don't have to be cutting this little debate ourselves, that we might be only left alone to ensure that the level of votes between parties and parts of the country is equal. I don't think that's any less fair, so you name it now. Other than that, I make a decision that, of course, it is very pleasant and beneficial for a council to finally meet after this long wait. I think the job of a draft board is a great promise that we can work together, no matter where we are, no matter what our opinion is or what our ideals are, we can at least... Work together in a materialistic way, with the very view that people's will and interests are the things that are always ahead of them. I'm just saying: I don't feel right that Sigmar Guðmundsson makes a decision to determine if the winning letters of Sigmar, the son of Guðmundsson are true in the community, all the charges involved, the different opinions and the lively conversations that are taking place in the community on this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u47	President. With your permission: ... that there was no evidence to suggest that the subsidiary market has influenced the outcome of the election in the northwestern district... Thus, in his talk earlier today, the words of the chairman of the presiding committee sounded as he discussed the results of the greater part. The suits didn't affect the election's finals, he said. President. What worries me, what really frightens me at this conclusion, is that the results of the majority of the section are not discussed on the effect on democracy. It should be clear to all that this process has undermined the confidence and confidence in democracy, in elections. It's serious, Mr President, and this discussion and vote should turn in my opinion. How do we regain confidence in democracy and election? The class that talks most about stability is also the class that suggests putting their label on lawbreakers and willing votes for themselves. What stability is involved in suggesting that the rules of democracy are ignored? We are a small society, and we have much to do with the security of public institutions, governments, rulers. As we face tremendous challenges, it has recently been shown in Covid. But the situation isn't normal. It is based on a trust that is delicate and should be approached with dignity and caution, for trust is the glue of society and the prerequisite for our continued growth as a society. Unfortunately, I am not surprised at the results of much of the evidence on this matter. This disrespect, Mr. President - I experience it as a disgrace to the democracy and to the people of the land - seems to be a rule rather than an exception, and possibly always was. This involves a tremendous lack of appreciation for the seriousness of the consequences. What happens when people increasingly stop trusting that elections will give the right conclusion? Does it stop trusting that democracy will work? What message are we sending to our new elections to young people who just chose for the first time? How does it affect their faith that their votes matter, that their voices matter? Will that affect future elections? We'll see about that. President. Now it's time for senators to vote for their own votes. This situation in which the senators are responsible for confirming the legal rights of their own choosing is just incredibly unnatural and really absurd. But she's here to see. It is the result of having an out - of - date constitution that has not been updated to meet today's demands. Of course, members of Congress are not meant to have anything to do with the decision of their own choice. There is an obvious conflict of interest that just explains the results of the greater part of this matter. If this were a new constitution, we would not be in that position. In the new constitution, there is an independent decisiongiver who takes sides with the voters, not members of Congress themselves, for the present arrangement is absurd. It is out - of - date, and it is hard to believe that the general council would use this authority to confirm the intrepid legal violation of the high government in the northwestern district. It will weaken confidence in democracy, and it will weaken the public's faith in the importance of their votes. Therefore, I cannot support any conclusion that approves this mission to democracy. I hope more people will land in that place today.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u48	Madam President. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland, all council members are bound only to their convictions. Today, this law is under great pressure because it is the subject of democracy itself, the lifeline that shows the power of the people of the country. However, the subject also concerns people, friends and acquaintances, people in the government, people who took count, and others. By September 25, last, I expect the voters there assumed that the elections would take place in the way the law expects them to do so. It is important not to question such issues, for it is important for the future of democracy in Iceland that the sort of failure to perform a campaign is not considered to be of little importance. The campaign allows candidates to adopt a series of rules, and if there are problems and they can be expected to have influenced the outcome of an election, the law assumes consequences. Our mission today is to follow the letter of the law, and to vote for the execution of elections in the northwestern districts, and such as other elections, has been that we were in here, and all voters can trust that the outcome of the election will show the democratic will of voters. That's what this is about. Sadly, the campaign in the northwestern district brought many problems. The count began before the polls closed. Count modes changed mid-operatively without anyone involved in sorting and counting if this was known. There were no records needed, so no cases were written the same as to be done, nor was everything to be brought to that book. Yes, it has been confirmed that the Supreme Government book in the Northwestern District was at least partially written post-registered and only signed by point-of-counsel administration. Retrospectives revealed a wide range of routines. For a time, there was a polygamy of the head managerial government at a talk point and outside the eye of cameras located outside the talking point. Within the hall, both could find a pencil and a eraser. Counting started without making a formal decision, and before spokesmen and even more of the class officials showed up. Finally, not all terms were reimbursed but part of them. In handing out market letters from the national economy, an unusual event took place that included the booking of the National Quantum government that was unsure that the figures obtained by a re-election in the Northwestern district reflected the will of voters in the district. What is it all about? Does it make any difference, Madam President, to the importance of the classes of the Council? Of course, the strength of the classes did not change. Yes, this is important because it is about trust in democratic elections, trust in the legitimate rights of the Generals and trust in our work here that will receive this assignment. The rules for implementing a campaign written in the election laws are security regulations to ensure that the democratic will of voters is respected. This is the key to democratic communities, key. Therefore, we need to examine what the law says and how we should react in the event of a failure. In the West, researchers have concluded that election laws have been violated in major aspects of the possession of sufficiency. It's a fact that's indiscriminate, and it's a serious problem with the implementation of elections. The fact is that the parking ticket and the fact that goods were laid down depends on significant problems, with significant limitations, where the results of the district changed between previous counts and re counties at the time of inequired provisions. There is also the fact that there is uncertainty as to the correct conclusion from the northwestern election. We simply do not know who the democratic will of voters in the northwestern state was because voters in the district were not treated in a legal way. Does the election principle prove that there is a need for exactly what happened at a time when the defense was disloyal? Is that right, Madam President? No, it is not, but it shows that if it seems possible that the parent's influence will be invalid. Then I repeat, the numbers changed. The numbers changed at the time the product was disloyal. That is a fact and inevitable fact. Did it have any effect? Did the numbers change? Yes, it affected the presence of ten individuals inside or outside the General Assembly. It's the effect. We do not know and can probably never find out if or what happened between numbers being read at a time. 7 Sunday morning, September 26, and until the talkees arrive at a stop on Sunday. Nor do the people selected to follow a count in the northwestern district because they were not there at all. There was talk of a counting start at 2 p.m. 3 on Sundays, but neither had the Supreme Court failed to meet the basic criteria for waiting on one side for talkers and on the other, the executives of the biddens. There is a fundamental requirement for the election's count. In fact, it was not respected at the first count because the first count started before the location was closed. That's also a violation of election law, Madam President. According to the General election Act, if there is a problem with elections that may be influenced by the outcome of elections, the Allied election should invalidate and a new election should take place in the district if the election of an entire list is invalid. Today, it has been said that there is no doubt about what caused the votes to change, and it is not too busy to invalidate the elections. Here, Madam President, we have been using the reverse evidence burden, as has been discussed today, in which those who point to the major problems of the project and the considerable uncertainty of the democratic will of the voters of the district should prove exactly what happened. It is those who are to prove exactly what happened when the votes changed at the time of failure. There is a request that the principle of innocence be applied until there is no proven guilt mentioned in any of the votes. There is no such requirement nor any court, including the Supreme Court, that has discussed elections to this day made such a requirement. There is no need to prove exactly what happened. It just has to be that this has had an effect, that it may have affected the outcome. It's about law. It is also about the appearance and trust of voters and performance and that it has been sufficiently effective. It is the burden of government and today of Generalis, to prove that the results clearly demonstrate the democratic will of voters. On the contrary, this is not the case with the opinion of more part of the stock board, so I will not be able to support the proposal it offers. Then I'd just like to step aside. paritaprevir The longest - reaching Björn son of Leví Gunnarsson, that the elections in all its elections may be invalid and therefore not established by all 63 members of Congress. As for this, I'd like to say that I can't support the proposal for the simple reason that election laws don't allow for elections in a different set of districts, but where the main factors were significant in the implementation of an election are invalid. It is fundamental in democratic elections that the result of an acceptable election is that neither the General nor possibly others are involved in their declaration. The voters have to trust that the conclusion is being held, and there is, in my opinion, a dangerous democracy. That's why I can't support a suggestion for an invalidation in the five terms. Madam President. Finally, I would like to say that my stand heard here today is based on cold judgment on the circumstances and the implementation of elections, the content of election law, and not my attitude toward people who were either inside or outside of Congress or the people who served in the Northwestern districts. There's only been an extreme failure in the election that it must be invalidated in some way by weighting the honour of the people who came to the election. It's not. We here cannot allow our attitude in this matter to reflect our feelings about characters and players. Our role is far more important than that. No matter what our feelings toward those who worked in the elections or those who were available, we at the General Assembly must evaluate our circumstances. The U.S.A. can be expected to have carried out, and the primary objectives of the project have affected the results of a campaign in the Northwestern district and are referred to in 3 mg. 120r. An election law to invalidate the election.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u49	V.E.G. President. Just for a brief moment, for a talk. At that moment, I felt that if we were to talk about it in this regard, she was starting to turn upside down thoughts about proof or evidence. That's right, as a matter of course. A senator and others have mentioned that there is no legal basis for proof in one or another. Of course, when it is said that a defect may have affected the outcome of the election, it is not necessary to insist on firm evidence that the defect was affected, but the likelihood must be made by this particular defect. That is what the law contains, but it does not mean that the problem has to be proved wrong. If, in view of the wording of the law, we are to accept only a clean and completed explanation, we must conclude that the similarity must be in the effect of this defect. Otherwise, the law is meaningless. Then I'm talking about probability, not full proof of it. I just wanted to challenge this opinion that I don't know if it's right. A senator agrees, but I think it is clear that when a law is used in this way, it involves a unit of guidance to the council that a probability must be placed before the conclusion that there is a link between this particular defect and this particular conclusion. It leaves room for evaluation, but when there is no evidence that this particular defect has had this effect, it lacks the legal requirements in my opinion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u50	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It is not the senator here who has been calling for legal proof, that other senators have done something to help. This was called for clear evidence of certain events that were supposed to occur, it has occurred here today. That there's a chance there's a flaw, huh? Senator. I believe there is a chance that certain defects, or specific problems, may have led to changes in the outcome of elections. We'll see we've got a lot of problems, and not just one of us, and there's a lot of problems with the implementation of elections, and the most serious thing about sufficiency. All we know is there were people there. We saw in security cameras that there were people passing the hall during that period. We know that. If we knew that no people had entered the hall during this period, we would be safe. We know that there were people who walked around, we know that the numbers changed, and then we have to demand that some kind of confirmation be affected by the lack of ideal data because they are likely to have affected the results. I'm completely that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u51	V.E.G. President. If we're just thinking about what we think most likely of all, I think it was a mistake in a previous count that gave the results that were subsequently corrected in the second count. That's what I think it is. Hv. A senator may feel that something else is most likely, i.e. the lack of possession of the data has led to a change in the data between count and second speech. The preparatory committee investigation was primarily focused on the factors, trying to review the details and, according to all available means, to fill that image. Why did we do that? Yes, it was to see if there was any evidence to indicate that the data were involved during that period, and the findings of the Committee led to the lack of evidence, no sign of votes, anticoagulation, explanations, and the like. We saw in a two-month study no evidence of that. That is why we cannot say the same thing. A senator shows that we feel that this defect was likely to result in the outcome.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u52	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for later answers. We're not here to predict, we can do that, and it's probably been done on the draft board and later on on on the stock board. Then there was forecasting and reutering. Here we are not in it, here we have the results of the Commission investigation, what projects were to be considered and confirmed that everything had been all right, that everything had been expected. There is a period in terms of sufficiency established by the national ethic government that remains unexplained, i.e. We cannot properly tell what happened inside the counting room with unrecognized data without witnessing in front of us. There's no way of doing that. How, then, can it be said that it was all right? It's kind of incomprehensible to me. [[Up front.]] - No, it didn't affect the outcome of the election. I can't help but think how I can say so. We know that the numbers changed and the people who were in or out of Congress relate to them. The numbers changed. If you're going to be absolutely convinced that all this ring and these problems have not been affected, you have to have absolute confidence in it. [[The president calls.]] There is such a doubt that the subjects have not been affected, that there can be no more than to invalidate the election in this district.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u53	Madam President. First, I want to say the word with the question. paritaprevir Representation of the annual Birgir of a Ármannsson, president of the pre-election committee and Advisor Committee, to 3 mg. 120r. It is clear that the defects need to be so that they can expect to have affected the outcome of the election. Much is said about the trust of democracy and the trust of voters. I'm thinking of voters in the Northwestern district who chose September 25th. Do you think, "Didn't my vote be trusted?" I chose. It's solid. These claims that the trust of voters is not available for these elections are just false claims that have no support in the real world, and there is no evidence that the trust of voters in the Northwestern district is not in place regarding the outcome of the election. It was claimed earlier that exactly what happened must be proved. It's not. That's not true at all. There has to be a chance that it might have affected the outcome of the election. This does not mean that it must prove exactly what happened, but it does say. A senator here seems to suggest that there is a problem. A senator actually says that those workers of Hotel City may have been referring to the terms so that they influenced the outcome of the election or that the tip of the head government was referring to the ultimatum so that it affected the outcome of the election. There was no one else to distribute at the Hotel Citynes during a meeting and before the second talk. There was no one else, we're in position, and the guy in the moon didn't come to the site, and we meant the quality data. It's also in the process. There's something else that I have to say, a big case, but it's that here's a statement, that it's under the rule that you're innocent until it's proven guilty. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The point is, Iceland never gets punished for expecting a crime to happen, never ever. A reasonable question must be established. [[The president calls.]] The requirement of this law is far different and much less.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u54	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It is very important that we do not lose the confidence of voters in the election. It is very important for the democracy in the country that trust is not diminished because it has written people for the election. To volunteer in elections, to volunteer for work in rural governments and at the General and to write people in favor of the others and these matters. I have a false claim regarding the confidence of voters in the northwestern district. I don't recall saying anything about voters'trust in the Northwestern politics. Rather, I talked about the risk that the trust of voters would be reduced if we were to let a serious, serious problem in the implementation of the election in a light bed. I never claimed that the trust of voters, of certain voters, went down, and I wish that it would. A senator will not put words in my mouth. Regarding the fact that there is never a criminal conviction that something may have happened, I remind you that in this case a fine has been issued.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u55	Madam President. For reference to why. A senator's legality, the fact that everyone is innocent until proven guilty, is crystal clear that it is never punished if a crime is supposed to have occurred or punished a criminal's way. It's just not done in Western communities. And to claim it -- it's absolutely certain that there must be reasonable doubt that criminal behavior has taken place and the terms of election law are everything, everything else. They're talking here about criminal justice. It's simply not right. That's it. That's it. I hope the senator retracts his word. Hv. A senator should know much more. And with regard to trust, I count, at least at this workplace, it is important that the answers be answered to what is being said that does not hold a closer opinion. This has been done for now for two months in the media, has been offered now, both in RUS and in other media, and it cannot resist. It may well be that in some part of the country, the public claims that all of this is a damned mess, but it wasn't if the evidence was taken into consideration. The opinions and proposals of a large proportion of the Committee give evidence of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u56	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I also want to ask for it. A senator won't put a word in my mouth about the conviction of the civilian staff. I haven't. I haven't been accusing them of anything. I'm talking about doubt. You're right. A senator says that there is no criminal conviction about something that might be expected. I was pointing out that there was a violation of elections in the northwestern state, which led to the results of a police investigation in the Western country that it was, and that is why, a fine was issued. Regarding the claims here and in the media that it was so important that they might have affected the outcome, I refer to the detailed report of the pre-election committee, which indicates the number of problems that were involved in the implementation of the election. Counting started before the home was closed. Part - but not everybody - votes were re-established. The non-supervising agents were present at either previous or subsequent counts. It's called a major problem, and it's got the Supreme Court on it, the really busy one. The defenses were completely inadequate, and that is also a major goal for the implementation of elections. This is undisputed, Madam President, and this is undisputed, not false, but fact. And everyone sitting on an out - of - one bill signed that it was like that, and then there are countless others. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u57	President. Reading the report on the fictitious letter committee, it can be concluded that the work was both thorough and careful. As a result, it is a measure of disappointment to see the committee's references close to all charges and complaints, even if they were to defend great and obvious difficulties in the implementation of the election in the northwestern district as well as the complaints that have even the legal right to vote. This will be considered as 3 mg. 120r. election is useful for the resolution of the complaints in terms of election behaviour based on a set of rules relating to the election of a senator, like 120th par. An election song's about it. Whatever the case, I cannot see that the election law can bind the hands of the Generalis to determine the validity of a constitution. In view of the understanding that election is repeated with the same listing lists, this interpretation is somewhat surprising in view of the fact that there were defects in the vote that lead to invalidation, the possibility that the same errors would not be solved in the new election would be the same. Furthermore, it is unacceptable that a registration file is not updated and citizens with votes would not be allowed to vote. Reading of the report form of the Advisory Committee, it can be assumed that all prospects are that there will be no votes in all elections or elections in the northwestern district. It should be considered that nearly all the systems listed on the previous number are also on the second count. It does not, however, take into account the fact that many faults and limitations of the second count are not found on the first count. The most serious endpoints, treatment defects, and possession of optimals are not applicable to the previous counts. Also, failures involving the agent's presence do not apply to the initial counts. It should also be noted that by reading a campaign law, the book on the final numbers in a book will be complete and no law of votes allowed by the head of the administration to repeat the count on its own initiative. Furthermore, despite an explanation it cannot be excluded that the optimal data between the first and second counts were meant. In view of all of this, the inevitable conclusion is that a ballot letter should not have been published according to the second count, but the number on which there are much less defects and was entered into a book after a count in the presence of the agent and the public. For this reason, I have proposed an adjustment in the opinion of the committee of the greater part of reference to the national ultimatum that a ballot letter is published for the previous figures, as if contained in a book. President. The most democratic action in this situation would likely be to make a vote in all elections and start over with a clean slate, but I don't feel obliged to take sides in the terms of the above, the previous or the second.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u58	A respectable president. What we have here today is difficult. Our responsibility is great, here is the democracy itself, not only democracy, but the more; the public's trust in democracy. We'll discuss this basic structure of our society, the cornerstone of free and open society. But democracy is, like the majority of the people discussed here in this hall, the work of men, and its actions have truly changed in the course of time. As long as I've listened to speeches, why? Today's members of Congress have wondered whether we have not yet fully understood and respected the authority that democracy gives us, and at the same time, how fragile and fragile it can be. But in order for democracy to survive, we must ensure open communication, discuss ideas, ideals, and dare to roll with rocks. We need to criticize and ask difficult questions. Every individual in the democracies community is a link in the democratic chain. There we all have responsibilities, and it is important that the guidelines are clear and respected. President. I've taken my role very seriously, standing here in this remarkable piece for the first time in an unusual situation. I've read all the data, examined every aspect carefully. I've been asking questions and challenging my attitude, but I've always stopped at the same knot. The premise for making informed decisions at the same time A or B's having real grounds, adequate information to evaluate the situation and make a decision. The problem is, there's a very large and important piece of paper missing from the whole story. It is not enough that the approved data were abandoned, undefeated, for several hours, but the point of the administration was left alone with undefeated financial data for about 35 minutes. At a return count, agents were not offered properly, and it was not even respected when a voter was asked to wait with a count until a single list agent reached the area. It was so late to finish. What was written, or not written in a book, entangles things further than where they go at least Could not mix audio and image. The treatment of doubts was not consistent with the terms of law and the terms of national politics, by permission of the president, have been responsibly re-created that the treatment and preservation of speech sites in the district have been satisfactory. There are two alternative options: to confirm this practice and thus to sign the terms of the 63 members of Congress who sit here today or not accept this practice, which leads to the conclusion of invalid votes and of votes in the district. I'm not going to stand here and say that I know better than anyone else which way is 100 percent right. Even our main legal experts do not trust to appreciate it fully. But this is the project, and there are two alternative options left. In fact, I always fear a little bit of the ambiguous world where there are two choices. Normally, the world isn't so black and white, and I'm really worried that the debate that is based on whether you belong to A or B will only break the gap I've felt in our community for a long time. I fear that today's debate and the decision to make will only serve as oil on that fire because as we stop talking, reasoning, and finding the best solution, instead of excluding arguments or opinions that we do not associate with, we are disregarding the principle of democracy. Then we will be leaving our basic foundations that we have agreed to build on as a community, and that is a serious matter. Madam President. On September 25 of the last year, Iceland's campaign continued, and the conclusion of the election is irreprehensible because there is complete uncertainty as to who the best outcome is, just because the intelligence was not guaranteed. It wasn't booked. This makes it impossible to examine and verify the superiority of the supreme government of the district. You can do that in all other districts, just not in this. Worse yet, it is undisputed too that the election law was broken that day. There's annull number, not a singular number. They're not just technical, they're serious. The angles are whether we like them or not, that there are no guarantees that the outcome of the election can be trusted. I would have thought that it was something that would cause a body of Congress to look more grave, not just in word, but on table as well. You see, it is one thing to write well from the responsibility of living in a democracies community, declaring that this is now fatal and labeling matters as I please. The members of the greater part of the draft board are planning to do so. What is the real will of voters in the northwestern district? Has it been clearly identified? We have one count that leads to a certain conclusion, and another that changes the whole picture, so even the third conclusion that has been discussed here today, not just in this special district, but in other parts of the country. The goals leading to such changes must, on the basis of President's permission, have affected the outcome of the election, according to Article 3. 120r. a law of elections for the Generals, for that is, of course, the matter of controversy. The other is so ecstatic. Were these goals sufficient or not? It is possible to write down on both findings legally, as the majority and minorities indicate. But what is the correct conclusion for our community? It must be in my mind to be above all doubt that there has not been a vote in the district, that the voters can trust that the treatment of their votes is under way. And what message is it that the People's Council, the legislature, is sent out to the community by confirming an inadequate re count? President. The event here is carefully implemented. The majority have written down on the results. The evidence is packed into neat legal complications, as we can see in the opinion presented here today. As a sign of this confusion, the committee who planned to make up the conclusions end up breaking in three pieces. I am personally grateful to be part of a council of restorations, which emphasized that we have all the right hands to form our stand because we are not in charge here. This is where the public interest and conviction of each senator rests. The light to me must be a long-term result, the message. The decision this afternoon will set an example. It will also be with us forever. President. This isn't the first time we've talked about an invalid election in this councilroom. In 2011, there was a rather historic debate about elections for a government council. History contains the talks that were then delivered, many of the same categories, and now plan to stamp out these problems so that they are in a way that they are not enough to invalidate the elections. It was impressive talks inspired by democratic love and respect for clear rules, not to overlook problems or formalities in the implementation of elections. But there was possibly other interests. This failure under consideration is simply a teststone on whether the General shall take sides with the democracy. The world's interest. The future. Show that the General is on national democratic rule. It may well be that the votes of certain uncertainty and inconveniences within the councils may even be unnecessary, but we have fought for the democracy, and we are to demonstrate that we are ready to sacrifice personal comforts for the sake of righteousness. It has not been confirmed that voters' voters in the Northwestern district were insured. We're here to argue about a storyline in a book that is missing some basics. That's why it's important to bring in the democratic will of voters without problems. The current law offers only one option in this situation, and there is an election with the failings it brings. But it's a state of public interest and I'll vote with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u59	A respectable president. It is not enough for democracy to be carried out. It must also have the appearance of being carried out. I experience myself in a very special position here today. I'm here to turn down my own stock. I won't do it just once and not twice, three times I'll reject my own stock here today. The question we are required to answer today is, in fact, simple: Is the vote valid, or is it invalid? The consequences are confirmation or rejection of voting letters published on the basis of the election. I believe the vote in the Northwestern district has to be invalid. It appears legal to have an invalid election in a single district, but it has a number of problems that the law provides little guidance on how to solve, and in fact, the arrangement has been decided with a completely different reality in mind, as it were. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson came in earlier. Besides obvious political problems, such as choosing voters in that district, they vote for final results in other elected lights, there are some practitional problems that make this option bad, if not simply impossible. From the beginning of the election day of September 25th. have, for example, changed elections. Not only have individuals received a vote because of their age, but the law says that a number of candidates in the districts should change in accordance with a decrease or increase in votes when terms of votes exceed certain limits, which are, in fact, 100% who are crazy about themselves, which is a different debate than the one we are taking today. What matters for the decision we have to make today is that this is exactly what happened after the election on September 25, which means that the number of Parliaments belonging to the Northwestern district has decreased by one and the number of Parliaments in the Southwestern district has increased by one. This has already happened and announced the national government on October 1. Because of these and other problems of voting in a single district, it is in my opinion that it is not an ideal solution, whether from a legal standpoint or from a democratic standpoint. It is not enough that the election law is made in terms of a reality other than ours today, but it also applies to an even more important document, the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland. Although the current Constitution of the Republic of Iceland was set up as temporary in 1944, with the view that its overall review would begin immediately, a review that would bring to us a new and better constitution that reflected better national, national, and principle values, some have taken doubt on it, even now, a century later, whether such a review is needed or not. But what are we doing here today? We have come here to judge in our own judicial capacity, to determine for ourselves whether we will keep the seats that we have been assigned. To those who did not realize it, I hope that it has now become crystal clear that we need a new constitution which, on the other hand, reflects the real government structure of the country to the extent that it is not needed to alter it, which makes the current constitution not even, and on the other hand, a constitution which is in accordance with human rights that we see ourselves today, but was not according to the sentence of the current constitution of the constitution of the constitutions, and in accordance with the democratic values of today. The campaign laws were broken in the Northwestern district, this is a fact and is at this point undisputed. The resulting law did not include any details, but rather serious violations against rules designed to ensure that an election decision can be trusted and verified, if doubts arise in later stages. It has been estimated that the democracy and human rights are varied in recent years. Increasing polarisation has been made in both the discussion and the position of people on basic issues in our society, such as the gender's equality, the rights of people to set up their family and personal life as they please, their authority and the right people to escape an unbearable situation, and to seek peace on another earth. The global crescent crown virus has then forced governments worldwide to take action that truly includes the intervention of our basic human rights, such as right to freedom of movement and right to physical immunity in the name of public interest. In such an environment, the importance of a free election is even more crystalting and more clear than before, although the result may be controversial, in which the process itself is undisputed. There must be any doubt that the rulers of the power to impair the rights of people in the name of an emergency, public interest or any other reason inconsistencies have been attributed to the same people who see the decrease of their rights, by the public, by the voters. Of course, this is true at all times, but in times of widespread freedom defects, when governments are increasingly involved in the use of power, this will be obvious. Today, in this hall, more than a part of the World Congress Advisory Committee sends out the message that it is acceptable that the election law is paralysed in a way that creates an opportunity for election fraud without any means possible to make sure that it did not happen. Hv. Congress members, making up a major part of the Advisory Committee, will be advised that nothing would indicate that the serious faults undisputed by the election have affected the outcome of the election. They have come to this conclusion personally after considering it, talking with a man and another who has appeared to the committee, and considering the limited evidence available on the terms of the campaign on September 25 and the events that followed. A majority of the commissions believe that the data were not addressed and that the figures that were set out are the right ones. Hv. The head of the Committee, Birgir of the Ármannsson, believes it personally and trusts that the outcome of the election was in harmony with the figures that have been published. Of course, it is good for you to do so. A senator should trust that, and that is very positive. But what in my opinion is not as good as it is expected that the common people, voters themselves, simply believe him, and believe the greater part, and trust in this, and that despite the trouble. Like the rest of us who are expected to make this decision, a member of the body of elders has more personal interests in regard to that decision. All of this means that no other conclusion is acceptable but that the outcome of the election can be guaranteed, that it can be proved correctly and can be verified. In this case it is not possible. The interpretation and findings to support this point refer to the Commission's legislation on the elections to the Council, which states that elections should be invalid if there are errors or the election of a senator who may have influenced the outcome of the election. But here we need to ask: Who can we expect? This is not merely about the interpretation of this expression by itself, so I agree with it. paritaprevir The country's country's Þórunn Sveinbjarnardóttir that this is not merely a law code and its word but a basic democratic election, that voters have faith and confidence that elections will be legalized and that the outcome is in harmony with their will as he has been described by their participation in votes. So it must be the nation itself that is meant here. If the voters themselves, the people themselves, may assume that errors have affected the outcome of the election, then they will be invalid. Therefore, the burden of evidence is not upon voters, on police, at Generals or others, to show that the failures of the election have not affected the outcome. The burden of evidence that the nation itself is not supposed to be that we have to be able to show and prove that to the people the outcome of the election. It is not enough for them to believe our sense of it, especially in view of the obvious biased position we are in, making decisions about our own fate at the council. In view of the events we face here, the burden of evidence is not just heavy, it is impossible. Data has been corrupted. Neglect and violation of election laws have been in such a way that it is not possible to find out the facts of the correct outcome of the election. There's no way. A respectable president. It's not complicated. If the outcome of the election cannot be determined in such a way that the nation itself has no reason to believe that the fault had an impact on the outcome, there is no other choice but that the vote would be invalid.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u60	V.E.G. President. Somehow, the biggest accidents are the most easily prevented accidents. And here we are, after the most ridiculous two months of the republican history, with an unacceptable conclusion in our hands that could have been saved so tragically, by retortating. If there's a doubt about the conclusion of the election in some outstanding thing, we'll just recount our votes. It was done on Selphoss, got up on a point and a stick, a variation up to zero. But they also sealed up the data. It is obvious that this accident could have been averted, but the high government of the Northwestern district had it of ours, had it of the people, all the voters of Iceland, being able to test the outcome of an election in the northwestern district. In the media of the election's flag, I felt that it was one of the most strange statements of the Northwestern government that there was no place to seal up the ideal data. Unfortunately, we do not have time machines, otherwise we could send the following to Ingi Tryggvason: Here I have a seal. [[A senator picks up a tape roll and a little alcohol can.]] I can seal this alcohol can. Now that it has been sealed just as well as the ideal data needed to be when people leave them at seven o'clock on Sunday morning and do not intend to come until noon. This is all the place I needed. That the head of the head of the government didn't secure a position in the citynes to pin one sticker where it took us to re-established resources in the Northwestern district - I don't even know what to use - it's depressing, even fatal. Then you can naturally cross, like a cot. Senators have done quite well here today, all the countless problems that were taking place in the citynes. I'm still sweating as I look at the news videos of the situation, and then I look at the map that has been drawn up by the way tables were set up, and it was carried out in the quality data around the room when all people who are cleverly aware that this is not how you make the ideal data. You just put them on one side of the room and out the other side, and that's just a clear conveyor belt. This requires learning, and the findings of the council tell us something about how much this will be learned. Are we going to whitewash this project, such as the greater part of Independence, the forwarding party, and the Stockholm people suggest by confirming the alleged latter figures of the Northwestern Prehistoric Government? Or we're going to show that it has consequences to screw up an astrogenic scale as it was done in Citynes by at least to accept a vote in the district, which is the legal most time - consuming way? Or will we choose again throughout the whole country, which is the most democratic way? When it's our election, it's because something else is unacceptable and indiscreet. In answer to what. The speaker of the majority of independence classes, forwarding party, and group of people earlier today only took note of what I feel to be a bit of a strange evidence in the argument of the greater part, and I wondered if it would be a weekend because people approached the project that they were trying to solve some puzzle, as mentioned. The prime letter board took a field trip to look at the ideal data, but the three field tours, that reminds me - the results that come out of it are just like the alleged second count in the city ofnes, just because it was missing the seal. It's not that complicated. In this way, we secure the security of goods, and it wasn't done since 7 a.m. Sunday morning. Everything that happens after that time period is not meaningful at all. It is not the commission to prove intent - to - do, some to speak like that. There are overpowering weaknesses to invalidate the election in the northwestern district because we cannot be sure that there are no numbers of the three that are available from the district are the right ones. This was the result of our government in the Northwestern district. The choices we face are different, and unfortunately, the greater part seems to be about to sail into the worst, the alleged second figures. But it may be appropriate to mention, too, that the conclusion is not obvious. Although a greater part of Independence Party, forwarding party, and the Shockers of the Advisory Committee concluded that the second number was the right way out of this, the possibility of a vote was just as much until the last day. You see, the law isn't black/white, it's full of gray areas. It is an assessment of a greater portion of the Advisory Committee that determines that the second figures occurred at the expense of elections. We might as well have put these two options on a dart card, and that's how we'd choose. The second figures, which are not numbers, remain to reflect no evidence from the Northwestern disaster because a seal was missing to make it possible. This doesn't make any difference, though, because there has been no connection between the majority of the commissions - as it were - of the past. Ármannsson I became even more convinced that the second figures were incompetent to the election. This was not shown to have influenced the outcome of the election. In what way? It is not enough that when it comes to the public of these laws, it is not enough for the independent people, candidates, and group of the people of the marketing board. It's the public that these elections belong to. It's the public that the results belong to. The public is the one who's supposed to cheat on that conclusion. This will reduce confidence in the implementation of elections, and therefore, it is so important that we take it firmly here in this hall to show the future government that it is not an option to screw up the election, that we will not tolerate it. If we deal with this from some kind of limp, we're opening a pando box that's gonna give us all kinds of shit in the future. There's no more options with elections. V.E.G. President. Finally, I suggest that meetings of the PUB committee and the World Congress Advisory Committee will be opened regularly.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u61	V.E.G. President. In the beginning, I'm going to thank you for the discussion that has taken place here today, and to the most part, it's been very complex and balanced. Of course, the task we face, all members of Congress, is not easy, as many of us have discussed. And it's safe to say that neither to us on the stock board nor to the rest of the people coming here have ever wished to deal with it. This was a very bad scenario, which made things that should have been simple to become quite complex. In my opinion, in the end of this matter, when a problem arises in the implementation of an election, when you come up with comments and charge serious things, you need to investigate them as far as possible, get the information you can and then take a stand. And whether they like it or not, they need to do so on the basis of current laws and on the basis of their own conscience. All of this is ahead, and we are on the board, the draft board and the prime committee, have tried to put the matter into practice so that members of Congress can take their stand on the basis of the best information and to break down the events all that we believe are relevant to this evaluation, for it is, of course, true that an invalidation of the law of elections assumes that a certain evaluation is going on. I have previously explained this, and I appreciate the opinion of five other committees who share with me, that when it is assessed, or when it is considered, it has to be viewed by the songs of the election, its expressions, and its natural interpretation. Our conclusion is that it does not just have to show off the problems, that it needs to be shown that a certain goal is likely to be, or that it may have affected the outcome of the election. We have no doubt about it, and the results of the Commission are clear that there are primarys or defects in the work in the northwestern district. When we talk about violations of law in that relationship, we are also talking about problems. The violation of certain terms of election law does not automatically lead to invalidation. Sometimes it is in some courts that violations of formalities automatically lead to invalidation. And it's not a matter of elections. A goal doesn't come automatically. In order for a goal to lead to an invalidation, it should, at least, be that it is likely that it has caused or affected the outcome. And that's where we're beaching, not because we think it's all right in the Northwestern District, not at all. On the other hand, we watch that the failure of elections in one individual or another is also a serious matter. That's very serious. And in order to reach that conclusion, we need to review a few of them. It must be shown that they are essential and are significant and that they have had an influence, or they may think, or may likely have led to a changed outcome. And over that threshold, we haven't been to our logical reasoning, at our jobs. We haven't seen the clues. We are not looking for firm evidence that the outcome was affected by defect, but we have failed to find it, despite all this investigation, evidence that the defect has affected the outcome. That is why we come to this conclusion. But I respect that. Councilmen may come to a different conclusion and have presented evidence here today. I don't agree with their conclusions, and I don't agree with their arguments, but I respect the fact that men can do so, and I'm glad that we've been able to talk about this today without much of it, without much being in major political sects or category of political conflict, for the most part, we did not quite, but most of it. I'm counting on it. Congress officials take their stand on these matters in accordance with law and conscience.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u62	President. I'd like to direct that question to why. Ármannsson In view of the position of the committee to determine whether errors have affected the outcome of the election, and in view of the opinion that each fault is considered, whether or not there has been an opinion on whether the problems have been shared, together, could affect the outcome of the election.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u63	Mr. President. We don't think so. It is, of course, that it is a matter of great opinion whether cumulative defects are permitted to lead to some conclusion other than when each is considered individually. That's a lot of opinion. In the bill that became the law of General elections, it was said that a number of minor faults could not be the basis for invalidation. Yet, it can be said that by evaluating each of us and looking at them and thinking, " Can this lead to annulment or not? ' we've been trying to get to that subject. To the extent that the only problem we are looking at in this relationship, which was really that it could have led to disqualifyation, was the one involved in the possession of the benefits, and that is why our attention was focused primarily on it. So, of course, there is a general assessment of us. However, we say: There must be some sort of rational context, some sort of causal relationship between the defect and the result, so that it is permitted to have a fractional operation and to invalidate the vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u64	President. Thank you. paritaprevir Good answer to the year's Ármannsson. I wonder, though, if not all of the mistakes may be reduced to the fact that the smallest unit of the problem would not affect the outcome of an election, whether it is more correct to combine the mistakes that have to do with the same factors and evaluate them as a team.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u65	V.E.G. President. Of course, some form of approach may be possible. There's a senator calling, and it sounds like he's talking to me about what he's talking about. Councilmen here today, including members of the draft board, value this in different ways, i.e. Some members of the committee consider more than one defect when they are reaching their conclusions. According to our opinion that we can call a greater proportion of the Synonym Committee, six members of the Nine, these defects were not in such a way that we could see that there was no logical context that led us to the conclusion that there was to be some additive in this regard. Hv. A senator asks: Is there any flaw, then, that can be embalmed into being insignificant? No, of course, we need to be careful, so in fact, we met the defect that protected the provision tools as serious defects that need to be examined and dived in and try to obtain the information available in this regard. To see if there was any evidence that the defect that was truly present could have affected the outcome. We thought it wasn't.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u66	President. We are a small and united society. The confidence and the solidarity that trust will produce is a precious force that enables us to cope with difficult situations and to overcome obstacles that may arise in our path. But such solidarities are not automatic. It takes decades to build it up, but it does not take much to put it at risk. If the Council confirms the election of all members of the Parliament without a new election, it will insinuate the northwestern government. It bestows its blessing on illegal and voluntary elections and even possible elections. The danger is that this will permanently undermine the confidence people have in democracy. This, Mr. President, is the decision that members of Congress are now facing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u67	President. We're supposed to be making demands for secure elections, that the results can be verified, and we don't have to trust anyone alone in terms of the rightness of the election. It is important in a democracies community that the voters can verify that their votes were received and considered correct. Again, I quote Gunnar G. Schramur, from the Government Court, regarding this problem of election implementation, by permission of presidents: If it's clear that election errors have been able to determine the outcome of elections, then it is generally irrelevant who is to blame or whether anyone is to blame for the failures. The vote should be invalid at one time. We're not looking for someone. We're not looking for a causal relationship, we're looking for a problem and for a change in results, or a reason such as Elections, if it's a violation of election policy, the vote is invalid. As far as I'm concerned, it's the same with the safety benefits.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u68	Madam President. Inadequate defenses of goods, inadequate communication with an agent, and other sources of events characterized by incoherentness and carelessness, a public disregard for the exactness required in election law. Each case does not necessarily result in an invalid election, but a systematic waste layer can do so. Although the percentages between numbers did not change, the results of those chosen and the percentages of groups in individual terms changed. The conclusion is that it was not possible to verify the potential defect of the previous counts in a so - called secondary count because the data had become so contaminated with this neglect. It would be like splashing a bucket of water into a tub and trying to catch back up the water and verify how much was splashed into the basket. This is what the United Nations is united with, and we will vote with a vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u69	V.E.G. President. In this vote, we'll vote for a proposal. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, whose result is that there would be no election agreement here tonight and that there would be a national election. I don't think there are any legal or material grounds to support this proposal. I don't think it'll stand by the terms of our campaign assignment here today, so I'll vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u70	A respectable president. I agree with the words that have been used often here today, that there must be trust in democracy and that democratic elections need to be performed. The election can be busy, and that's not good. And this was certainly a problem. But I'd like to say it's also about trust in democracy and respect for democracy, not to invalidate elections when people come in good faith to vote, and there's no suspicion or probability or anything like it, suggesting that we don't have democratically right conclusions in our hands. Then there is a great responsibility, and it can be a loss of confidence to cancel an election without having any reason to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u71	Madam President. The preliminaries'report reveals that there is no reservation regarding what caused the difference between the counters in the Northwestern district. There is, however, a difference between leaving all doubt and putting reasonable questions ahead. I look forward to the earlier application of the 1909 ideal tools in the World Council. Then, Madam President, to ask: " Is it reasonable to believe that the survival of goods has affected the outcome of the election in the northwestern district? I think so. A more simple explanation is that there has been a mistake on the category of votes, which explains the difference between talkers. But this cannot be said with absolute certainty. We are faced with a decision, and this is my conclusion, so I object to this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u72	President. Now the best are over. It is no longer an option to vote in all terms. Also, it is not an option to vote in the northwestern district, and it is now time to make the choice of the remaining two members of the council. Today, members of Parliament have to decide whether to trust better the previous or second figures from the Northwestern district, the previous figures, which despite many defects, were met with a count of votes for those in the local agency and the public, or the second figures with much more ends, with a count of uncertain votes, and on the basis of lawbreakers. This adjustment is the last possibility for members of Congress to prevent second figures from the northwestern district, with no basis for trust. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u73	Madam President. I think it's a reason to come up here because of this vote to explain why this vote is paid. That is because the election in five terms of six was carried out, as the law expects, and it would be unacceptable not to confirm and confirm and fail to accept the votes of the voters who live in these votes. It would be inconceivable to take a stand against the clear will of voters, so, of course, I vote with this, but I don't trust to vote with the votes of those in the northwestern district.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u74	Madam President. There was no conflict that there was a significant problem with count votes and the possession of markets in the city ofnes. However, in view of the lack of adequate odds, I do not think that they have influenced the results of elections and therefore prevented voters' will to succeed, and in view that the failure of 16 elections has led them to votes in one outstanding example, which would make a very democratic decision in which they would prefer in other circumstances and through other sources of information and thus influence the results of an equation-based profile and the nationalities, I think that there would be a higher requirement to allow them to have an impact on the outcome of the election. Therefore, I will support the approval of 63 approved letters, including this one. I have come to this conclusion after thoroughly reviewing the data presented by the Commission of Prime Directors and the Senate Advisory Committee. I would like to thank the Commission for the good and careful work and to emphasize the importance that we here at the National Parliament learn a lesson from all this process, especially when it comes to a change in election law and constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u75	President. It may seem odd to turn down the votes of these senators, but I'm paying an vote for an election in the northwestern district. As a result, these letters would be invalid, but this is the case with us, there is nothing else. It grieves me a little bit that whenever there's a mess, it's never done anything about it. There is always a lesson to be learned, perhaps doing better next time. But that is part of the reason why mistakes are always being made over and over because there is never any consequences. In this case it is very clear that if there is a defect that affects the outcome of an election, it is not important whether there is a causal relationship or something similar. That's not what we're looking for. There was a flaw. We do not know why, exactly why that defect was involved, as was shown in the case of other members of Congress. We cannot be sure of this and therefore make no election. That's as simple as it is because the basis for confirmation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u76	A respectable president. The Republic's Constitution of Iceland reports that the Council itself determines whether its members are legally elected. Senators cannot flout the commission of the Constitution, although many would no doubt find it more convenient to sit by today in view of the opinions raised during the election's implementation in the northwestern district. However, it is so that we members of the Parliament have been enabled to take an informed stand on the opinions of the election's implementation based on the thorough study of the Commission and the post-employment committee, which has been over two months. The study is based on the opinion of the number of experts, police investigation, extensive field trips and interrogations, and interpretation of current regulations for the implementation of elections. After this study, it is concluded that the end of the election has been unaffected by the majority of the stock board. So there is no reason to invalidate the vote in the Northwestern district. After examining the evidence published on the Generals website, I believe that the conclusion of a greater proportion of stock committees today should be based on the results. A respectable president. I vote by confirming the given votes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u77	Madam President. The democracy is extremely precious and unstable and should be associated with it with respect. By not paying votes on ballots resulting from elections in the northwestern state, I am voting with their reelection so clear that voters in the northwestern district are willing to perform, so we get black on the whites what they wanted and no doubt about it. That's why I'm sitting by on this vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u78	If that is the case, the election for the Council of Congress will be adopted on September 25, last September, as well as the elections for the members of the Parliament, as well as the elections of just as many of the vices the government issued at the end of the total election of September 25, last year.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-11-25.u79	According to point two. Congress must be made up of members of the general council who are now taking their first position at the Council for the first time signing a vow of honor to the Constitution. Of the 25 newly elected generals, eight have taken their place at the General Assembly, so 17 new senators will sign their vows at this meeting with their deputy council members. These include: Kristínardóttir Gunnarsdóttir Hafsteinsdóttir Guðbrandsson, Ingibjörg Hrönn, Berglinsvón Sigmar GuðmundssonIngi Berglind Ósk Einarsdóttir, Dilæn Skúladóttir, Tómas Jóhannsson, A., Kristrún Frostadóttir, Jóðsson, Isaksen, Tómasson. At the time of the assembly, Indriði Ingi Stefánsson took up residence at the General Assembly as a guardian for a reason. paritaprevir Thorhl Ævarsdóttir Asvardsdóttir, 7th. We're out of here. Ingi's letter has already been investigated and approved, but he has not taken his seat before in the Council and must sign his pledge to the Constitution. Indriði Ingi Stefánsson has signed his commitment to the Constitution and is welcome to work at the General. At the assembly, Kári Gautason served as a deputy at the General Assembly before his arrival. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, 3th. That's the north side. Kári's letter has been investigated and approved, but he has not previously taken his place in the General Assembly and must therefore sign the commitment to the Constitution. Kári Gautason has signed his commitment to the Constitution and is welcomed to serve at the General Assembly. As announced at the beginning of a council meeting, Kjartan Magnússon took his place at the General Assembly today as a guardian for the reason. paritaprevir Guðlaug save Þór Thor Þórðarson. Kjartan has not taken his place before in the Council, so the commitment to the Constitution is to be signed. Kjartan Magnússon has signed his pledge to the Constitution and is welcomed to serve at the General Assembly. At the assembly, María took her Kristinsdóttir, Rut, who was a member of the General Assembly, and she has made a bill of votes for her and has been investigated by a draft board and approved here in a council hall. María Rut has not previously taken her place in the General Assembly, so she must sign the commitment to the Constitution. María Rut, the Christian Kristinsdóttir, has signed her vow to the Constitution and is welcome to work at the General Assembly. They're what they were. Parliaments who are now taking their first place in the Council have signed a solemn pledge to the Constitution. I would especially like to welcome all of them to serve at the General Assembly.
