ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u1	Madam President. I recommend a proposal for a hearing of approval for the continuation of General Assembly meetings according to Article 1. 23rd par. The constitution. The suggestion is as follows: ▪ The General concludes to agree that meetings will be postponed from December 28, 2021, or later, if necessary, to January 17, 2022. The motion is self-explanatory.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u2	President. I'm here to make a statement to members of the Committee to Re-Elect a greater portion of the budget. The committee has dealt with the matter again after two coverages. ... tohavea meeting with a representative of the Department of Economics and Economics. The changes made by the majority are on both the income and the pay-off side of the bill, as well as the increases in credit rights. Section 5. Several proposed changes are made due to the implementation of tasks between recruitment measures, as is known, in line with the Presidential decision No. 125/2021 of November 28th. Changes to Article 4 are made. budgets that disintegrate legal rights according to local language, litigation, and legalities. There are two suggestions on the income side to match the changes made from a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee on the 3rd matter, a bill to legalize the change of various laws due to budgets for 2022. One, it's 7,200 billion. K. reduction in income due to tax worth. A greater proportion of the Economic and Business Committee proposed to provide additional remunerations for cost taxes for working on construction projects etc. The arrangement has been called work, and it was part of the time - to - date counter measures for a pandemic crown virus. There are no data on how the reimbursement has affected the collection of revenue taxes. The majority suggest that the Ministry is working on an assessment to assess this effect. However, some 500 million people are proposed. K. increase of automobile costs in accordance with proposal of a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee for 1,000 dollars. increase of the price. One suggestion is made on the remuneration side of the budget of some 27.4 billion. K. the increase of costs resulting from the change in the budget of the Economic and Business Committee on the 3rd case. The presidents of a budget bill made it a total of 985 dollars. per person enrolled in the National Church, 16 years of age and older. Remuneration is now expected to be temporary at a rate of 1,107. on an individual basis. A greater proportion of 2 Peter 3: 1 - 5 is mentioned in the Biblical article "The Secret of God's Word. " Um....................... 210, i.e., a discussion on the so - called "separated Ways" to which you can read. Roads that were grouped into rural society under road arrest, No. 80/2007. This change was responsible for moving from road to country. In 2015 the road was given permission to the end of 2019 C.E. to negotiate with the rural communities for the translocation of the roads. This delay was extended to the end of 2020 and now to the end of 2021. The state of the situation has been disputed on the part of the rural population. Keeping the roads from moving to rural society. The committee received reviews from Reykjavíkurburg and the Communicator Union in the capital area, where it was an important requirement for adequate funding to follow through on road management. In a report with the bill of the Environment and Transport Committee which extended the deadline to the end of 2021, cr. Law No. 139/2020, reports that by extension, roadmaking is expected to continue the costs of these roadways, but no longer than until the end of 2021. The majority of the reimbursement of the contracts to end these roads, but also point out that from January 1, 2022, it is according to road law I mentioned earlier, the responsibility of the rural society, not of the Roadmaker, but of the most important of all, that rural society and the state can meet here. Here are also these forms of transition from recruitment to government, as I said before, according to the Presidential decision, which is traced to this committee party. In charge of the General Assembly, there is a proposal for the changed order of recruitment at the Iceland Commission and it is scheduled that on February 1 a new Precaution of the Department's Change of the Ministry, with the adjustment of the assumption. Clearly, then, more extensive changes will occur between recruitments after a new decision. At the beginning of the year, it is expected that a bill will be submitted for financial support, in which a new division and a new Ministry will be fully reflected. The greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes explained and proposed in the Senate documents provided.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u3	A respectable president. The minority drew attention to it at 2nd. 2 billion dollars. could also be in the business of the Land Hospital, and it would be possible when the hospital's management at Akureyri was due to the support of aging and population growth, despite the certainty that aging and growth were inevitable. That was the case with 2nd. that information had been received to the Chairman of what? The legal committee that there is a budget available at the Ministry of Health that could potentially meet this problem and that would be considered. So I wanted to direct that question to why. The chairman of the legal committee what the situation would be in this case, whether this hole would be closed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u4	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. At least we've received nothing but information about them, that there was money at the Department of Health and the Minister has not contacted us to deny that it is not. That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u5	President. Thank you. Chairman of the budget board for the answer. I wanted to follow through with this and ask why. The chairman of where it thinks these 2 billion will be in the account of the Land Hospital for the next few years. Now, the Landsspike and State Fund have made a pact between them that if the Landsaholic gives up a slushless business, the hospital's former debt will fall to the state's debt. If we see 2 billion this year, in view of an inevitable bump, which seems to have not been an intersecting calculation, what will be the result of land management in a different equation? Counts the chairman of a smidge. The budget that these 2 billion can be found in the Land Hospital?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u6	A respectable president. I am absolutely convinced that the staff working at the Land Hospital and his managers will put forth effort, as they have done, to manipulate their business. I don't expect the hospital to be required for about 2 billion cuts or anything like that, if that happens. A senator is implying that. But I think it can be done much better in many parts of the business, and I think it can be done at the highest level. A health minister is on hand to help the hospital if necessary, as we have been doing in the pandemic but also to continue his work as we would like him to function as soon as the epidemic hopefully ends, which we hope will happen right now. But we are not assuming that the hospital needs to pay down the old slope. It has been considered in the Committee that if necessary it will be extended, especially because of the conditions we have been living in for two years.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u7	A respectable president. In committees and changes to a greater proportion of legal committees, a total of 700 million are proposed. K. a donation to agriculture due to an increase in exposure levels. I want to ask you why. First of all, the chairman of the budget of the budget is how this compares with the priorities of the Treaty on the growth of organic production. Second, I would like to ask why this particular industry is being taken out of parentheses like this, why it is not the same way to meet several other companies in food production, which also highlight high levels of raw prices.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u8	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. I think this is just a very important part of our country's security, as we have often discussed in this chair before, and it's important to be clean. This is a warrant, let's be clear, in order to pay farmers, if they have the reality that they have the huge rise in the appeal of what seems to be going on, unfortunately. This is far beyond what we face in terms of other high prices of goods and services, and therefore we feel that it is possible to improve the quality of our prayers. At the same time, we are taking farmers on a trip to climate goals and other things that agriculture has described as ready to work. [[The president calls.]] So I think it's just part of the whole big context, changing methods, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u9	A respectable president. Hv. The senator spoke of food security. Then I have to ask you if you like. effects on meat and milk prices are more safe to eat than they are when it comes to fruits, vegetables, rice, pasta. Another thing I'd like to ask about the plans for raising attendance fees beyond what the bill expected. I want to ask you what. A senator whether it is desirable for the future to the State to play this role for this one religion, and whether that arrangement harmonizes with the ideas of the left green in the 21st century.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u10	A respectable president. It's just to make a good deal of agriculture, we've been supporting a little bit with vegan farmers, and luckily, we've already seen results there. I think we should continue that way. In terms of the application fee, a representative of the Economic and Business Committee of last year has described that a greater part of the Committee felt that they were laying in permanent numbers we are dealing with today. That's even. on the ground we're working on. We have an agreement on these matters regarding the State Church, and I'm all for it. There are differing opinions in my class, such as many others about state and church, but I'm probably a member of the church because I support this agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u11	Madam President. Thank you. Chairman of the Committee for Review of the Committee. I'd like to ask, because we're discussing this day in the order that the budget is at the front of the order: "Come on, let's go, let's go." The manager explained that there had been a special change in the income side because of the decisions taken in connection with the campaign All work, if something was done at the Senate Hall today that calls for changes, how will this be done? Will it be done with the Committee's Committee of Sheep or Fundament Plans that will be replaced if a decision is made in a Senate hall today that requires adjustment or adjustment of the budget? So the question is, how do you see it? The chairman of the budget board is to see that it will be done?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u12	Madam President. If I've understood why. A senator right, if there's a new proposal today in case 2nd, I'm sure that the communicator is calling for a change from a budget board, that's an up-to-date budget. The senator is here to refer. Well, then I'll think of at least two ways, just like the kind of car linking I like. A senator proposes or prolongs the campaign All work. At any rate, I have no support that these extensions would be different from what they are offered, but if they become more part of the council for changing this, they would probably call for a financial committee to come together to give clearance for their expenses and they would have to be in the form of some sort of opinion, yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u13	A respectable president. Two major changes occur between the 2nd and 3rd. ... abundant. One involves a substantial loss of income, the vast contribution of funds. The first turns to the extension of the resource All work, and I will come to the suggestion here in my speech, but the second motion turns to the switch between recruitments. A memo on the magnitude and impact of these changes was received by members of the budget of December 26th, the second at Christmas. 16:30. It is small in the memo except the amount of money that will be transferred between paints and a table that will specify each of the funds to flow, but no report will follow why certain cases are brought between recruitments. Only the President's section on the switch between administrations at Iceland's Management Board can be quoted, but no explanation can be given on how to determine which segregation groups should be moved between members of the management board. Then there is no diagnostic work behind this decision, the benefits of it, or the support of reason. The first changes to the Council, as presented here, are up to 15 billion dollars, in view of the Ministry for the biggest change in funding, of course only clean transfers. This does not change the fact that from the Department of Social Affairs to the current health of 11.5 billion and to the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs of 15 billion. It is obvious that there was no time for members of the committee to study these changes, after the proposals appeared as well as memos from the Ministry. This work - style is not new in the budget panel or in the work this year, but it is fast moving around 3rd. where large changes are pushed into place, increasing the financial needs of the state's funds and changing the division of the budget, some of the workload. A respectable president. Investment Committee work between 2 and 3. About a few hours, so to speak, led to a resolution of 7 billion dollars before the Council. It's worse off than after 2nd. This is not because the greater part has decided to follow a wise, financial proposal to 2nd. which turned to: First, stop at 2 billion bucks. a hole in the management of hospitals. Second, stop the duplicating between vulnerable community groups that receive their income through the social security systems and the general payers. Third, to support increased efficacy among micro-organics who cannot work without going to the highest taxation level in this country. And fourth, a decision to ensure full funding by the U.S.A. is currently on the waiting list, much to young children who need a lot of help. Nor is this because the greater part and the government have agreed to agree with the recommendations of the less part to finance properly and to follow the government action programme on climate, which the Climate Council considers to be unsatisfactory, and this despite the fact that an ambitious objective of a government contract has been updated to achieve a 55% reduction in emissions after eight years. This 7 billion dollars doesn't come. In addition, because of the decision to accept my share's proposal to add more money to building an economic home, which could reduce housing insurance, reduce pay pressure and inflation, and, in that case, the cost of homes, state funds, companies, which are very interesting in view of the fact that increased inflation, which may be largely attributable to loss of value, has cost the total of 13 billion dollars. in the year. You see, most of those suggestions were rejected by now before Christmas. This is 7 billion dollars. costs for projects that the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of the Political Class, in which verbal debates place great emphasis on responsibilities in the state of finance, the importance of priorities, and the restraint of costs, as well as the government's ability to move to the present circumstances in order to meet the major challenges of our time because of the presence of inflation. This same Ministry does not consider any economic grounds for the requested project, in particular for the work. The Ministry's memo to the Economic and Business Committee on December 16th. says, with permission of the president: It results from the state of the economy, the position of the construction industry, automobile repairs, and the state of the industry. and the original objective of temporary reimbursement of 100% VK, to face economic effects following a pandemic crown virus, not requiring further development. In view of economic investments next year, it is also mentioned in the memo, with the permission of a president: These forecasts are not expected to result in 100% reimburse the VK from the staff. [...] These projections do not suggest that there is a need for a special tax interest in building. In terms of the improvements and maintenance of housing, there is little to indicate to be a number of projects. [...] In addition, the discouraging effect of Covid on foreign travel has likewise been an encouraging influence on summer construction projects, and this has not disappeared. In addition, there is evidence to suggest that the extra demand is for industrial workers and that continued tax pressure would rather maintain that imbalance rather than reduce it. In terms of state funds status, the Ministry of finance is also clear, by permission of the president: ▪ An extension would make it difficult for the State Fund to subsidize. Not only would there be safe and significant direct loss of income but it would also be likely that equality would be disturbed, which would provide similar remunerations for more types of activity. Then there appears to be no diagnosis of whether or how this measures have been successful in preventing black employment. In fact, there has been a ten - year extension, but there is no suggestion or analysis in the Ministry how all work over the years has affected black jobs or where there is any evidence to suggest that the proportion of jobs increased to 100% in 2020 has been significantly changed in this context. We simply do not know. No statement can be made in this context; the analysis is not yet available. The Ministry also wondered if this is the best use of funds in the memo, with the permission of a president: Moreover, since these types are inherently strong, the need to make a special assessment of whether these funds were possibly more useful in other ways or in other ways. Finally, on December 22, 2021, a memo describes the effect of this decision on possible resurgement in the state's affairs by permission of the president: A higher standard of living and debt will mean that more needs are needed than may be needed for maintenance measures in the years to come. No argument has been received from the largest part of the budget of why the Ministry of finance highly requisitions on the extension of the project all jobs are ignored. The majority of the section does not even mention the mention of the mention. A respectable president. It's interesting to calculate things, to get an economic context, to make decisions in a calm and cold way based on facts, to make it sometimes called in the political field. What is of interest in this context is the date and time of use in this field and when it is not. As a matter of fact, social debate has become saturated with money and economic growth calculations; it is all going to work out on the right number to justify measures. The most striking example of the last term was the successful bill of the government, where an investment in children - notice the use of words: an investment would be as profitable as an investment in Kaledranian operations, only more profitable than a swimming track but not quite as a lucrative Cheflavour airport. On that basis, it was decided to attack the funding of contacts for children in government roads. It's not enough today to do something because it's the right thing to do. I guess it is too intense to hear that people who have spoken on so - called emotional grounds for decades are not just talking with their emotions, they knew that our economy is based on people, and that society that supports people, young people, children, is more productive than other communities. It shouldn't need an economist to figure it out. It should not be necessary to be able to compare people, children, road activation, but it seems to be more than not today; market conditions seem to have to deal with everything in the community. This is a sobering development, even for someone like me with an economic background, because the fact is that there are virtually no studies to show exactly what supports the economy, which is often discussed as the primary objective of decision making. However, a number of studies indicate that there are well - worked ways of dealing with people and that their living conditions are reasonable. After all, the objective of the government is to improve the living conditions of people. As a result, the economicly supported community is strengthened by the economy, which is falling from the health of society. On this point, the political bitch is, in many respects, a respectable president, or should be converted, making decisions about improving people's lives. Governments need to be able to point out whose lives they will improve by what action they take. The amount of money that takes one operation may not be able to go to another. And there, a respectable president, is the priority. I listed above the changes made by Christmas. There is a modification proposal for the majority of the part, now shown at 3rd. budget, costing 7.2 billion. The key point is, there's the politics. Here's your priorities. One thing is certain: On the basis of the Technical argument from the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the decision to extend work is not based on clean economic arguments. It is primarily a political priority on where to improve the living conditions, which are good and proper if only accepted. This arrangement would not be my first priority if it were only about 7 billion dollars. The space to discuss, which is a much larger question, i.e. where this real space lies. But there is also the political differences, totally independent of economic facts.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u14	A respectable president. What a joy it is to stand here at the front of the High General for the first time and to participate in the council's work! The person being present has followed up the discussions about the budgeting bill that has undergone the basics and the importance of financial coverage. The budget can determine how political parties promote their policy, what the priorities of the government are, and what are the values involved. Despite each government's control, as a society, we have come together for a certain covenant and have been committed to the government to ensure that certain basic needs of the citizens are fulfilled. We may be able to discern the ways and how far they should go, and this is about elections, as well as the values of individual political parties. I take into consideration ideologies in which government income is used to reduce inequities and balance individual positions. The government has required public activity in the coming year, and unfortunately the government has been looking for solidarity or solidarity so that the interests of those who fail in the community have been taken into account. Nor can it be seen that the funding of the systems for which basic needs are adequate. The government's health policy to 2030 says that the health system is part of the community's cornerstone, part of the Community Convention. On this, we all agree, and as a nation, we have had the prescientity to build an official health system so that the financial and quality of the individual do not direct treatment and access to services. In order to maintain this community crisis, it is necessary to ensure the funding of the system, funding which ensures not only that patients can be under the same business but also that they can develop and manage normal demographics and progress in patient management. This is a time in which the health - care systems of the country are exposed to the health - care providers, making it more rapid and productive, as the importance of the Community Convention shines most well. However, the financial and financial budgets that are available are faced with continued subsidiary of the medical system, which is shown by subsidiary, the escape of professionals, and the longer waiting lists. These views have been tore in a committee's list. paritaprevir Kristrún Frostadóttir, representative of the United Nations on a budget board, and I want to give special attention to the viewpoints presented there and the importance of the increase in financial resources needed to ensure public service in the country. This would give full support to health care professionals who have worked hard over the past two years and who believe that better times will come. Then I'd like to discuss health care in the country's districts. It is a pleasure to see that health institutions in the South and South countries receive increased financial resources and additional projects. However, there is much to it that these large areas of growth have received sufficient financial resources in recent years so that basic health care services for the inhabitants can be provided. Thus, there is a great need for access to health care and standards, so today more than a thousand inhabitants need to attend the services of family doctors in the capital area, a service entitled to their local inhabitants. Finally, there is the position of young and athletic people in the country. The United States has confirmed by special financial contributions, and now by financial contributions, the importance of the work. The person standing here has been in the sports program for a long time, so he is not related to it. I know well from my own experience how important it is for young people to engage in leisure activities properly under guidance. This will not be questioned or any good social impact that such a work has as a prevention and as a career in the future. The work is largely done by volunteers, and unfortunately, it becomes increasingly difficult to do so. Therefore, the government's support for this work is very important. The budget does not expect continued support, and I'm sorry. In my mind, it is clear that the outbreak's impact will continue for the next year, and this will limit the potential for sports and youth society to earn money from funds and conventional jobs. A respectable president. I would have thought it right to assume that next year's budget needs additional financial resources to continue the ambitious work that has been built up here during the past few decades, a work that the nation could have been proud of, a job that is controlling society and the nation together at regular intervals. A greater proportion of Congress may now feel that it is more convenient to take such funding through the extra budget, as has been approved at this council, with a total of 100 million. K. spending time on a job of youth and sports because of loss of income; actually, the amount that has not been enough to make up for the financial resources left over this year. But okay. It's the financial resources that society keeps close to. However, in view of this process that is important to others, I miss the fact that at the beginning of the year, there will be an initial relief from the damage to which a difference is due next year. According to the UNICEF survey, about 17% of children and young people in this country have no access to organized youth activities, and the concern is that it is particularly in the child of many homes, in homes where professional activities are low, and among children and young people living with parents in rented homes, where participation is least. It is, therefore, a pleasure to see in the financial continuation of special support to income - rich families whose goal is to increase the opportunity of those who are less paid to participate in organized sports and youth activities. It is a strength that covers about 13,000 elementary schoolchildren. However, it is worse to see that the modernization rate at this level in November was only about 50%. To inform parents of this support and wish to be met by means of budgets, about 80% of efficiency, is required. That is exactly what this group of poor people do, children, and young people who live under situations that are beyond their control or who have a chance to correct. Finally, I'd like to mention that I miss the good proposal made by the candidates before election, that the state would support the use of 6,000 - year - olds. This year, it becomes reality. In fact, I would have considered making radical changes in the child - welfare system and raising payments for a family better than from what has come to be clear that such changes will not be done at all. This does not change the suggestion of 6,000 k. Would increase the potential for young people to pursue the leisure activities they choose. A respectable president. Clearly, the forward bill does not reveal major changes in priorities from the last term and is unfortunate. I hope that the viewpoints and values based on equality and solidarity will be more meaningful in the years to come and we will have more happiness in caring for the community covenants here on earth.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u15	A respectable president. We're about to take out the next year's budget. The main objective of the State budget was to grow out of the crisis that resulted from the Korean epidemic and, unfortunately, we are still dealing with it. The strategy's guide was room for success in terms of finance, emphasis on innovation and infrastructure, and relief from people and businesses. Investment and commercialism were put ahead of investments, and inflation was stopped during the programme period. This guide is still there, and I think this budget here sheds good light on these plans of the government that I support in my entire mind. It's interesting to look to the last year and to see the fortunes we've had this year. I don't think every prophecy came true. The forecasting darkness always seemed to be more than reality would show so later, likely because the government's actions brought results. As planned, we were successful. But this is not so that the prosperity of individuals in society is based only on interest. That is why it is so important that we are now also working with the goals of economic prosperity. We need to keep on doing so. We see clear evidence in the last financial programme and see also the sign of the budget now, but I want to see more clearly in the new financial program that we see at the beginning of the next year. I'd also like to reiterate what was presented in a committee study more than part of the Economic and Business Committee on the importance of the implementation of the Commission's decision to re-evaluate costs and further contribute to the project Digital development. We see considerable results from that action. But, Mr President, I would also like to see the results of their actions in the budget itself and that we can see the much savings and high economics resulting from the digital development of the Council of Government and of all public services. A respectable president. I also have to have a chance to come in on paper, a case that I believe most people find quite complicated. The preliminary principle that we are here at the Council has increased at least two ways, if not three times, to this time of year. Companys, especially those in the capital area, disagree with this position. I agree with what. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, who said earlier that we hope that there will be an agreement between the state and the local community on this matter. We know that the situation of these roads has been agreed, but there is now a disagreement about future cost. In this context, I would like to reiterate the importance of our flight towards the development of a future payoff before driving. We talked about the auto fees and the like - I need the word, a respectable president - we're supposed to contribute to the environmental energy supply. [[Foreground on:]] The people of the world, thank you, boy. Senator, this was exactly the word I was looking for. Now it's indiscriminate to change about the trucks, and we've set a big goal of switching all the way to pure energy, and I want to encourage it. It also tells us that in the long run, we need to consider how tax returns, or depositers, are to be taken from cars or cars. I think it's one thing to believe that rural society needs part of that payment. The farms that society has today are solely answerable, real estate costs, and they need larger and stronger farms to cover their expenses and legal services.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u16	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator before the speech, many fine things were presented there. I particularly agree with that as a boy. A senator said the importance of building on fortune - tellers rather than on economic views. Because I know why. A senator is interested in climate matters, and he specifically spoke about them. I would like to ask, " Do I not have a measure of concern in my mind that in these budgets the fact that the government is now supporting a much more ambitious climate goal than was done during the last term and whether? ' A senator doesn't worry about it as if I didn't see a clear signal in the first year of this election, which is then 25% of the season.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u17	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists, and I can agree. A senator's concern about climate matters. I think it's one of our biggest challenges. I am proud to support a government that has put the climate goals first, with ambitious climate action plans that depend on the goals we have set for ourselves. It seems to me that there is a clear evidence of this in both the government covenant and the budget. I can't rule out that there will be an even greater amount of money to be put on climates in time. But I also think it is important to mention, a respectable president, when we watch such a huge party like the climate, that, while it may certainly cost money to get a certain result, it is also about our setting up the so - called climate glasses, just as we have discussed about equality and how important it is and how important it is that we look at everything from equality. The same with the climate. There are so many decisions that the government is making, and in all these decisions, climate glasses need to be in the air. This does not necessarily require government funds. It can only sometimes call for a change in practice, a change in emphasis in some way, and it seems to be a clear sign to me. But I look forward to dealing with this problem with difficulty. A senator in the coming years, so at the council, we provide a fine arrangement, and when all decisions come, climate matters are being placed ahead of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u18	I want to thank you. A senator for this answer to an answer. That's the tone I like. It's important to consider climate issues on both the charge gate and the income gate. Of course, as financial advisers have noted, it is important that there is a clear agreement between a government contract and what is presented in financial policy and the financial laws as well, and I am not completely consistent. Not at all. Now I remember that during the campaign, the Union and the Independence Party may not have agreed on much, but both groups agreed that they needed to raise the scholarship of students. There is now the first government budget in a new term, and there is no evidence that this promise was made. Then I'll ask why. A senator: Does she know this in particular at the advance party and the left green? Or do the government groups agree that it is not time to raise the levels of birth for students? In this context, I would like to point out that we are coming out of a very bad period of time where there have been and there are limits to communication. I also miss the lack of new laws on the subsidies of psychological services in ways that are more satisfying than there are in the case of a witness, 250 million or so. It'll do us a lot of time if we're going to follow these laws just in case you don't mind. I realize that maybe I'm causing it. A senator's problem is to bring up so many questions, but it may be mostly the raising of birth strength that I would like to get answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u19	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator again resists. Hv. I'm going to try and get close to it, at least most of it. He mentioned the birth strength of students. I can only say that I would have liked to see the signal in the budget bill. The more important it is that we see it in the budget and in the budgets that we will pay at the end of the next year. There is, however, an increase in the amount of money that goes into the feeding ordinary treasure. That's even. due to an increase in the intake of birthmarks in the mother's womb. As a result, we changed the birthal law for last Christmas, began our discussion on this subject, and now the birthworm is 12 months of great benefit to parents and a great deal of importance. What a joy it is to see that what we discussed here in this hall has just happened, i.e. that fathers increasingly take the parent's course One of the things I said in that discussion was that the next step would also be to increase the roof of a maternity vacation. It further encourages the involvement of fathers because, sadly, we are still in the position that men in general have a higher salary in the community. Hv. A senator also introduced subsidies for psychology services. I've been in favor and supported that bill, I even think I was a carrier at that bill in my time with the legal authority it involved to the minister. I hope that the amount of money in health insurance can be played so that this service can be arranged. I realize that there must be some frame around it. It's a little more than saying that although we all want to support the psych service, and I think that having a good access to the fact that psychological services are very public and that they can save money in the long term. That's why there's been some problems. The services of psychologists at the clinic, at high schools and elsewhere, and the next step is to start subsidies for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u20	A respectable president. An international nation asks: "To whom do these laws come primarily for the benefit? Where did the income come from, from the rich, or from the poor? How is money spent, in an expensive ministry, or in an increase in prosperity for those who may be less fortunate? Perhaps the answer to these questions is that there is a need for a complete reexamination of funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u21	President. This is my fifth day here at the Council. In my first speech, I encouraged delegates to show more respect for the taxpayers of this country. I'd like to thank you for the welcome of new members here, and I'd like to thank you for the committee work I've been involved in. It makes me feel professional, and it makes me feel like I'm at a meeting in a town with a very professional practice. I would also like to see that in these days, I have seen that there have been a number of very good health, education, environment, and matters that have really improved the standard of living for those who need assistance from the State. But how disappointing it is to see that expenses, large expenses, are approved here without much thought or preparation! Let me give you three examples. There's been over 7 billion approved here on a project called this beautiful name Everybody Works. But is everybody working? It's a project that's been checked out in the finance and economics department. It's against Iceland's border. This results in economic instability. Still, it's approved here. I would like to point out that this is the taxes of 1,000 homes, there are over 1,000 homes in the country that pay all their taxes next year on this project. Another case is 500 million in the state snorkeling system. I don't really understand how this idea could be brought into this council. This is totally unconvinced. I've found no report on this 500 million. These are the taxes of 70 families that are only going on this one drop-off drive-up project. Then third: 300 million are expected to increase the number of budgets. No analysis, no logic, no explanation. Sometimes I feel that I need less than the highest. A minister says we're their superiors. At the end, I want to reiterate my admonition to respond. Councilmen show greater respect for the taxpayers of this country, even training to say no to their new expenses.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. The speaker's speech, in many respects a very good speech, and a good time to have a hard time. A senator enters the council and hears his view of the matter. Hv. A senator mentioned 500 million. K. In a regiment. There's a bit of a bit of a mix-up in the budget, that's the first thing I read out of that column too. But it is not. These 500 million are being escorted by formative film policy, and I think there are five million that we have been told to go into a flow system and that the idea is to get old Icelandic movies that are not able to be fed through other flow groups, so cultural resources live on. We were assured on a financial committee that they would not compete with any other subject. I just wanted it to come out here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u23	President. Thank you. A senator for this explanation. At the same time, I want to know that we sometimes have to think, sometimes called concern for things we shouldn't be interfering with. And another thing I'd like to say too: The private business could take over. Such projects are typical tasks that should only be offered. There are about 10 to 15 companies who have pointed out that they can handle such projects. My motivation is that we are not always taking on all these assignments but, rather, allow the personal effort to enjoy them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u24	A respectable president. I bring here an opinion on the bill to legalize various laws due to budgets for the year 2022, from a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee. The bill was referred back to the Committee after the 2nd. and have discussed the matter again. The business came from the National Penitentiary Association of Iceland, Ólafur K. Ólafsson and the Federal Bank of Iceland. According to Iceland's Department of Penitentiary, a greater proportion of the Committee's 11. The bill does not move from fixed fees in clean assets to pay a pension of less than 15 billion dollars. With the change, there is an increase in the monitoring fee set out on the pension fund from 4,135.018k. of 4,78,335K. More than two o'clock in the context of the committee's list. it shows that the majority do not consider the basis for the increase in the overall burden of pensions in the way suggested in the bill, so it is suggested that the ratio of the overall burden to be continued by 60%. The Commission requested the position of the Ministry and Iceland's Council to determine if there were any grounds to reduce the share of the fasting fee on a clean fund to pay a pension of less than 15 billion dollars. The majority of the shares do not count the basis for reducing the amount of remuneration on a pension fund of less than 15 billion dollars. ............................................................................................................................ every year. The Committee has reenacted the changes in the indentations due to the import of an automobile vehicle in accordance with the ESP legislation that remains to be dropped after a total of 15,000 automobile drivers who have been involved in the drive have been registered on the driver's list. As indicated by the opinion of the majority of the Committee at 2nd. does not consider the greater part to be the basis for a change in the external structure of the pack due to the currently available vehicle linkage, which requires changes to this in a more comprehensive review, including taking into account government laws and commitments to report changes to the EFTA monitoring agency The majority point to financial and economic secretary to determine whether there is any basis for extending the above events, or making changes in their arrangements, before the 15,000 contact drivers will be reached. With regard to the value and sale of cars, I would like to state that there will be a complete review of the new year in agreement with the financial and economic office. In front of you, the more part contributes to the approval of the bill. It is written at the Council of December 28, 2021. Below are publications: Hafsteinsdóttir Hursteinsdóttir, Ágúst Garðarsson, Mist Einarsdóttir Einardót, Hafsteinsdóttir Hörnsteindóttir, and Steinunn Þóra, the Árnadóttir of Aarna.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u25	Madam President. Thank you. The head of the Economic and Business Committee for Prehistory because of the opinion presented here. Not surprisingly, the chairman of this committee was greatly disappointed. I'd like to ask you what. The president in the first place, in relation to what is presented in the committee's opinion and opinion. The director explained that part of the lack of a prerequisite for taking up the case or changing the course is, as it says here, that these changes would require more extensive revision, including taking into account government laws and commitments to report changes to the EFTA monitoring facility. In what ways is this case different from the changes made by the Committee to all the work rules now in their efforts? It's the first thing. Second, by permission of the President, we say: So the more part points to financial and economic minister to consider whether there is a basis for extending the above events in some way... Counts 'em out. The director that it would be beneficial to ask the Minister who was suggesting that this not be done whether to do this in the new year? Is there any possibility that the outcome of that fine minister will be different in a new year than when the decision is actually made to collapse? We'll start with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u26	A respectable president. Thank you. Senator for counter-sponsored. I believe it may well be beneficial to direct them to ministers. It is clear to everyone that the government has built up commitments to carbon emissions and has set a very ambitious goal that there will be a lack of carbon in 2040 and that Iceland will be independent of fossil fuels in 2050. This is the challenge we face, and the question must be, How will we do so? One of the most successful and effective ways is to change energy sources, which means that we need to change our transport, both cars, ships, and airplanes. That is the task we face. The decision has been made that we will disappear from fossil fuels to clean, green, and sustainable energy. It has been shown that it contains tremendous savings, up to 100 billion a year, that we can save ourselves in the shopping of fossil fuels. On the other hand, I'd like to point it out. A senator at that time, and it also showed in yesterday's discussion that I'm concerned that the infrastructure hasn't arrived at the place we need to drive the whole country. Then you can ask yourself, " What are we going to do first, the egg or the chicken? '
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u27	Madam President. I appreciate the answer from what happened. Chairman of the Economic and Business Committee. This seems to be the case, as so often would be, when the meaning is good, that the measures taken are going directly against the aims to be achieved. I am confident that the change in transport will slow down. Why do I say that? First of all, the effects are evident on those who move in these vehicles, of course, to all who want to see. Second, this is likely to cause an important part of the retail market of all recent cars to buy one car in the new year. It will put a great deal of pressure on putting down, just under tax laws. A senator refers to a worthwhile tax remuneration. There will be considerable pressure. What will eventually happen is that the structure of both the distribution system and the car fleet, which is either a link car or full of electricity, will be slower than if this bridge was present. Because I know why. A senator has examined this, does she believe that this change will speed up energy exchange in Iceland as far as the private car is concerned, the family car? In view of the fact that the agency does not get to form the number of people that are likely to be demand, that the motor vehicles alone, the head of the Economic and Business Committee believes that this speeds up the structure, or that it may be over a year, the disil and fuel trucks that have no part of the power source? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u28	A respectable president. Do I think this will speed up energy exchange? I'm not the prophet that I can see into the crystal ball that many people are looking at at at the end of the year, how the future will face us. I don't quite see it coming. But they have heard that it should not be an indiscriminate or subsidious use of fossil fuels. That's one argument. The second evidence is, do we need a compromise that we choose to look at, on the other side so far, that we have a link car that can then bridge the gap until our interiors reach their limit. You can simply wonder that much of the market or of used cars are being controlled by our rental car. The country's rentals have been importing about half of the new list of cars in Iceland, so it's a factor of nature. As far as I'm concerned with their information, there's been a problem with renting 100% of electric cars. Tourists who are going to travel around the country or on longer trips are reluctant to do so. I'm a spokeswoman who sees the construction of tourism and the construction of employment around the country. That's why you have to build a tunnel in this building of infrastructure for electric cars, and then we're gonna see here very quickly, very quickly, that I think. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u29	A respectable president. I recommend a change to the bill to legalize the changing of various laws because of the budget for the year 2022 to raise the carbon bill. These are timely changes and are in line with the suggestions that scientists, economists, the International Cash Fund, environmental organisations, and research show that are the best way to activate the market forces to achieve success in climate. One thing I want to be clear before I go further. It's not that this is some regular tax on a certain business and goes into a government fund. This does not add to the affairs of the state, nor does it have to change the total amount of money and state success. This is a tax that brings real greenhouse gas emissions, which we all know about the magnitude of the market, something that has not been taken into calculations before because we have not felt this effect on society to this extent. If we take an example of a company or a person who makes a decision on the market, whether to buy an item of A at 500 bucks. which may release 5 kilograms of carbon or an object of B, which costs 700 k. but the release of 10 pounds [10 kg] of carbon is unrealistic for the current economic system to expect people to take in their decision - making decisions the more remote costs of more than 5 pounds [5 kg] of carbon have ended up by companies and individuals in a sense often thinking about standing on their own feet and on their own money. I know that some people and people on the market would choose the greener benefits from social views, but it is not entirely possible to rely on them now 30 years since we have known the severity of the problem and a large change in behavior that has not been necessary. This is exactly what carbon tax tackles these problems, bringing the actual cost of emissions, which all of us know are high, into the market decision making. The budget now suggests raising the carbon account by 2.5%, which seems unbelievable. However, as the government has pointed out, the increase in consumption is by 4% and fuel is to rise to the level. Therefore, this actually reduces the effect the carbon tax should have, which is contrary to this amazingly cool aim of the government on climate, where climate and market should work together. Thus, the carbon tax is a perfect way to do just that, to let the market and climate work together, for this is not a government for which the market is to go, but is to do so by better calculation at actual costs. This adjustment suggests first a 4% rise from a consumer science level and then a doubled one, as the International Cash Fund says that carbon costs have to be paid at least twice or triple to have the desired effect, at least in Iceland. The amount of money available for this population should be set aside and clearly stated that it will go to climate surgery or reimbursement, so called, by President's permission, This makes the World Bank budget clear in its analysis, and I suggest that when the council meets again in January, there will be an immediate discussion of how to use this tax. It can be used directly for climate operations and can be used for example. Looking to Norway, Sweden, and the British Columbia as it has been found that this does not adversely affect the economy but has a positive effect on the climate. It could also be paid out, and looking to a common letter of 3,500 economists, of which 28 Nobel laureates, to pay out the tax most of their income and to reduce gradually as wages rise. That would give the largest groups the opportunity to participate in the new transitions. It would be a realistic way for the State to set up such taxes in cooperation with income groups and more part of society that would be paid by the aforementioned Committee (U.S.) or carbon pay. This is something that the council might discuss later. Both ways are practical to enable the entire community in significant reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and thus the impacts of climate change. With these facts in mind and the wonderful aims of the government, I believe this is a practical way to get climate issues first and believe that no matter which side they are on, no matter what side of the political or economic issues they are, all of them can accept this solution. It is incredibly important to finance these climate operations and continue following science and experts when it comes to seeking solutions. So, almost in the year 2022, we cannot be talking about a budget that is designed to reduce the effectiveness of carbon tax, the solution that scholars exactly encourage. This is what I hope that members of Congress, especially in the government, who want to achieve their climate goals, will look closely and vote for this change.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u30	Madam President. I'd like to include three items such that a main source of information, perhaps a little more in my speech. First of all, I'd like to introduce some adjustment proposals made by the Central Party, between 2 and 3rd. and then I'd like to include just a few issues that have been here a little discussed that will lead to a linking car and changes that are taking place there and how the Economic and Business Committee reacts to them and to the discussion that has taken place in those areas. Hv. A report by the Economic and Business Committee has now been published by the Commission, which is in the form of a paper prepared by the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York. Councilmen Guðrún Hafsteinsdóttir, Chairman of the Committee, Ágúst Garðarsson, Mist Einarsdóttir Einardóttir, Hafdís Hafsteinsdóttir Hysteinsdótir, and Steinunn, the Þóra of Árnadóttir. It says on this subject, with the permission of a president: The Commission has reenacted the changes to the indentations due to the import of an automobile vehicle in accordance with the laws on the value tax that remain unsolved after a total of 15,000 mission drivers have been registered on the driver's list. As indicated by the opinion of the greater part of the Committee on Study 2, the majority of them do not consider to be the basis for a change in the arrangement of the pack due to a linking vehicle at this time... I'm afraid it'll come back in the new year that it's not going to be over. I think, by stopping the coincidence here, we're just about to have an operation that will slow transport energy exchange. I think it lies that way, if we look at what you see, the limitation of the manufacturer's access capacity and the driver's car at 100% electrical vehicles, the bridge that is involved in linking trucks, especially in the country, if we look at the adaptation people to learn how to use the electrical vehicles involved, if we look at the structure of the infrastructure of the infrastructure, how much they are actually trying to control this transformation, how much energy change in transport is, it's all evidence that it's really worth trying to try to achieve a change by cutting the links cars out of the window at the end of years. The tournaments are about to set in just a few days, so this injudgment with regard to the link cars is over. What will take place next year will be the expected market for which the commission will have to operate more on fuel users, which, of course, are positive fuel trucks and diesel trucks, which are useless with electricity sources. As the data of the Garage Union indicate, and the reports that have been received through this from the companies working on this market, I'm afraid that the year we're going to stand here and watch numbers where energy transport has gone back again in the United States, especially for people cars. If that's the goal, it's fine if it comes only because it is, unfortunately, so often in action that is justified by the health of the climate, which can be perfectly acceptable, that it act directly against the goals that humans claim to achieve. This is one of the most clear examples to consider. This change will slow transport. There is no question about it. It's a bad decision. A financial and business committee should have done it better. Of course, there is no explanation, as the committee's opinion of not maintaining the arrangement, with the permission of a president, does call for an adjustment in a more extensive review, including taking into account government laws and commitments to report changes to the EFTAHow to monitor. If this is a real problem, you just do this, you know, you get to this job. However, the ESA has already stamped the system as it was. I think the government has often been marching around in thin ice, but in this case, if the extension had been determined here without discussing with the EFTA clinic before. The monitoring agency has passed through this, the current rules that have come out of force at the end of the year have this plunger. So, of course, it's just a premium. Another factor in this discussion is that the budget has closed its work, but as presented here in response. The chairman of the budget committee mentioned earlier in the discussion of the budget against me would only be doing this because the committee is called together, and it presents an amendment taken up here by variations. It's not a problem at all. It's some sort of a discount. What Is the Cause? Is it that hard? Now I don't know, should we assume that there's a lot of tough guys in the board? Are we to guess that there's a council of the left green that's hard against? I believe that members of the Independence Party and the forward party understand this matter. There is no reason for another, of course, for members of the council to do so. If the situation is that we are here to agree with a case that directly violates the effectiveness of transport energy exchanges, this government is hardly in winter. If a narrow - minded viewpoint, as it seems to be in control of this matter, controls the movement and members of an independent party swallow over and over and over against the issues that we see the government is wrong in like this, when it's actually about to slow down energy exchange, then the High Schools and Independence Party will have to give up quite quickly. I am very disappointed that this is the result. The members of the board of directors will later be given the opportunity to submit to the Central Party's proposal to keep these rules unchanged from the present, and I hope that men will change their minds for that time. But, in any case, if there is a desire to find an intermediary route that can continue to support transport energy exchange and people don't take a few steps back, as it turns out, next year, I will support these issues and I will celebrate the progress of a larger part of a financial and business representative. That would be wise, and then the person standing here will make his own suggestion. In addition to these factors, I would like to mention the changes proposed by the Central Party now between 2 and 3. suggesting an increase in the share of 6 billion in pensions. K. This year, 500,000 bucks. in a month, instead of 2.4 million, as the bill assumes. Since 1.2 million each year is a step in the right direction, it should be a cause for rejoicing. But we must look at the total cost of this. I have regularly criticized that the Ministry of finance is only looking at the cost of this, but there is no consideration for the amount of money that comes from such an increase in the payoff. Of course, it is a ridiculous approach to stand before the judges of the administrations and insist that this is just expenses for raising an older citizen's holiday goal. Older citizens are not about to put every cent under the pillow and let it stop there. It's going to get more and less involved and it's going to make its money. I'd like to administer the criticism I've made and reminded them in a discussion about the current budget where we were accepting substantial changes in public finance laws, that must be so for us senators that the Ministry of finance is required to show on both sides of the money, so to speak, it is both taken into account of the decisions they make and the money most likely to make. While we are not, we are always watching a distorted picture. Then, at the Central Party Council, as I entered the previous class, there will be a proposal to extend the appeal of linking trucks through the year 2022 without making any side adjustments. But I would be delighted if representatives of the government groups made a suggestion that was in that direction, although the conditions would not be fully extended. I've drawn back a suggestion that turns to the carbon bill. But materially, our position as members of the Central Party is unchanged, it is a tax that should be dropped or dropped, as it has been repeated in the response of a minister here during the past term that the government has no idea of the effect of this tax. It's just a clean additional tax on companies and citizens of the country, and we're supposed to draw it back instead of putting in the uniforms of green solutions and green taxes that are nothing more than taxes. I'm gonna let that do for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u31	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir For Ólason's speech, Bergthhir. I think I can agree with things, of course not everything that came out there. We're gonna go for a second. Among other things, a senator has discussed these matters in the gangs of Generalis. What's in this committee party from most part of it and what's happening. A senator may not have been able to move us to the highest level. Financial and economic minister to reimburse this whole thing for review and whether there is a basis for extending the inaccessibles that have been in progress due to a linking vehicle and before these 15,000 cars are reached. I think it's very important to do that. I can totally agree that this is, of course, part of the government's objective when it comes to climate. I want to ask you why. A member of Parliament, where this is the conclusion of the committee, what number he has in mind regarding this saying, whether or not we are going to 17,000, 18,000, or 20,000, each. A senator has in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u32	Madam President. Thank you. Ágúst Bjarni Garðarsson's Jap for the counter. As for these figures, if I begin to answer that, I think 20,000 would be a reasonable threshold to bridge the space we watch so that it is necessary for bridges to interconnect in this energy exchange in terms of the truck. In advance, it's a mismatch, I think I have that number from the Cartel. There has to be a small advantage in my response, but I think the numbers are from there, and they match the data currently available when registered cars, what kind of rhythm they have been, and the period during which the cartel service has spoken for the need to bridge. That's why I thought it would be wise for me to have the dinner installed in 20,000 cars from 15,000. Whatever it is. A senator said that I had skated by them now it wasn't. I came in against what. The head of the Commission recently considered that the majority of the funds were directed to the secretary of finance and economics to consider whether there is a basis for extending the above events, etc. How likely is it to direct the inquiry to the minister who suggested that these inquisitors be canceled by a few weeks later to see if there is any reason to repeat them? It's just some sort of a discount. I'm afraid nothing's gonna come out of it. I hope I'm wrong, I hope so. But I'm afraid you're just buying peace.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u33	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Once again I repeat that I think we agree on quite a lot of things when it comes to this matter. I think it may be this environmental factor, the development of infrastructure all over the country, it's all connected, that maybe we're too far too busy trying to stop the indiscriminates completely from happening. Perhaps that is why we are suggesting it. I believe in both the highest. Ministers and I members of Congress are willing to listen to reasons, and there are many things that can turn into this work. So I'm not going to rule out that this situation could change. I'd like to finally ask you what. A senator. Suppose we are going to raise that saying. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agrees with me, because we're talking about climate issues, that during that operation, it's wise, if it comes, to lower the CO2 to even 40 grams, so that we take in cars that have a bigger frame and a longer range so that we have a car fleet that really means something to our entire government's project to do good in climate matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u34	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. It is most unlikely to say that I completely agree with the approach to validate these materials. But I think it's going to happen on its own. Now this so - called third generation is connected to a car with a much greater range of electricity than the generation of electric cars that first produced this link-in solution and may have reached some 1,5,30 miles [5,30 km]. But we're looking at some 50 miles, plus/minus 10, in most cases now, it seems to me. I think this is going to happen on its own. That's exactly what we have to do, allowing this trend to take place a bit on the basis of evolution in technology. It's going on by the big producers. There's become a complete revolution between the first and third generations of hybrid cars. I'd be very happy to move this reference to, but I have to admit that I'd be surprised if they were importing cars today with very little vibratation. I have to admit that I don't know it, but I don't think those cars are made anymore, just in the light of the development that has been made. But I hope that's the right thing to do. A senator is still hoping that this will be better because, as it is now, it is being done as badly as possible. As I'm saying, the rate of energy exchange in transport is actually slowing down as far as the busload is concerned. I'll take the bet, and I'll be back in a few seconds. A senator and his partner are in trouble. The Economic and Business Committee should follow up on the review referred to by the Committee to the highest level. Financial and economic ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u35	A respectable president. We're discussing the budget, and recently we've been discussing climate issues specifically. What may be the most amazing thing about us Icelanders on climate is this incredible hypocrisy that we think we are the center of the universe on climate issues. Sadly, we are little to be measured in that context, but of course we are under obligation to handle these matters. But at the same time as we're talking about the climate, like we're doing something really serious about it, we're selling pollutants to nuclear plants, carbon mines, oil incinerators. What does that say about us? Yes, we are hypocritical. And at the same time we pretend to be huge on climates, we're moving our garbage to a foreign land, thinking that we're so exhilaratingly environmentally, to do things like that. But let's talk about the other thing that's been discussed here, the contacts. In this too, we are making this incredible hypocritical move to say that it is unwise to maintain the inconsistencies that involve linking cars. The first trucks and link trucks that have arrived today are very different things. In your latest automobiles, you even have three choices. You can drive them only on electricity, you can drive them only on hybrid, then electricity and gasoline are used, and then only in gasoline. Now, most cars are the only ones who can use electricity from 50 to less than 100 miles [100 km]. What does it tell us, just in context, if we take a normal working man who is going to work? Most in the capital area only work for electricity. And would an ordinary worker normally drive his car within the city's target so that electricity would work? I'd guess it would be that way from 60 to 80% and even more. As a result, we're telling the group who wants to hit link cars but only on electricity: No, we're going to stop it. You're just gonna have to go to electricity, that's all. But while we don't have electricity, so enough cars make it to connect around the country, we're not ready to go into electric cars just like everyone wants. And another thing about this. If we just drive 50,80 miles, we're also saying to the Southside residents and to work in town that they can take a truck to town, load the car, and then go back to the loading house. And those who live in Hoato, or in Selephoss. So we're saying to those who live in the country, where infrastructure is not good enough, that they can go all their daily trips within their community only on electricity. I know about people who live in the country, who use electricity only on a link truck. The only time it uses the fuel or diesel motor is when it takes long trips to town. So we'll see that it's very practical. Unfortunately, though, I think it's too late to change this. Some of this thing goes out at New Year's and then it's supposed to fall out about 15,000 cars. That means we're talking about up to less than a million. Perhaps it can be reduced by half, and hopefully it will be done because it makes sense to do so. I'll agree and support the adjustment plan. paritaprevir Bergþór son of Ólason is in this regard because it is only reasonable to continue this intention. We must also realize who are making their cars new today. If we're talking about people who have as many as ten years old cars, who spend 15 to 20 L's per hundred, and we're going to link trucks, we're talking about spending on perhaps a hundred and sixty-two litres. It's just sky and sea between a hundred and sixty-two liters of waste, or 100 miles, and it's not even anything when only electricity is run. So it's just plain common sense to do it this way. And then we know that evolution is fast. And as we discovered on the news last night, the first plane to fly only on electricity is now coming. She's back in the country. According to the news, we've been flying within the country only on electricity. We're getting ships into electricity too. We have a ship that sails through electricity between land and island. As the trend is rapid, I think it would have been beneficial if we could have had trucks unchanged in the year 2022. Then there is another matter. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason came in, and it's about employment, raising the income market to 500,000 dollars. 6 million a year. When you get into these numbers, it doesn't matter, you might as well say, "Get away with all your limitations." No restrictions are required, there is no need to be 500,000, 600,000 or 700,000. It's just to be: You work, you pay taxes. The fact is, once you're into this income, as well as getting something from a pension fund, you'll get nothing from the government insurance agency anyway because it's gonna drop out at 700,000 bucks. ... money. That's where we're kind of deceiving ourselves. That is actually the very same thing, this is the stupidest thing ever done by any government, to discourage people from working, and to prevent them from working. Exactly the same is true of micromasks when they are told that they receive only 109,000 bucks. free-grading goal. It's kind of a joke. No one can work because it does not come back. Because of the declines and chain-mortem declines, it doesn't come back. However, at the same time, it is said: Okay, you are ready to pay people to be at home for exactly the same amount, but if they start to work and pay taxes against it, they must not. One of the stupidest things we do is discourage people from working. They talk out and south. In one sentence, they say: " We don't want to raise the holiday goal. But in the other hand, they say: In some way, we need disability to work more. These are not wise suggestions from the government. But as I say it is the fact that we should remove all obstacles. It has simply been proved that it is practical for about 23/4 billion dollars. to take all the money from older people's incomes. Then it would have been very sensible, too, if we had done something similar for the terrorists and the Swedes did, allowing them to win the tax and impairment for two and a half years, just to see that they can go out on their own terms, not on some pressured terms by those who want to reevaluate the social security laws and make up some kind of work.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u36	President. We are now on the complete payment of the budget and that's what's been said and I'm not going to repeat it. But among the suggestions we have here, and we vote for now, there is a change from a budget board that has to do with it. The funding of the campaign All work at 7.2 billion dollars. When the bandworm was approved, a group of Congress voted against that proposal. We will be at the same barnacle here and vote against the funding of this project, where we believe it is totally illogical what benefits it has. On the contrary, there is strong evidence that continuing this assignment is incomprehensible at present.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u37	A respectable president. It has its own story that here we are returning the treasure of 180 billion palaces, which is approximately 5% of GDP. It is vital that we balance our government and support our money policy. Yet, in spite of this high angle, we have budgets to support people and businesses and our infrastructure in the coming year. We are extending labour market resources and we continue to promote and support innovation, research and development. Here, too, are the individual collections and support for cultural activities in many lands, which are of great importance. We are strengthening the foundation of nursing homes and continuing to promote health care as our first stop, and we add to our mental - health issues. These are good financial laws, and they are important to the people of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u38	A respectable president. I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity here, as I'm about to vote for the first time on the budget at the Icelandic Council. I've been on a budget with other good people, and over the past few weeks I've been an eventful and very valuable in learning. We've had to work fast and hard, and I'd like to compliment every member, the Committee of the budget and staff, for good cooperation, good cooperation. Especially since I'm up here, I want to take advantage of the opportunity to commend others. For a very good meeting board and staff director, Berk Bjarkey of Olsen Gunnarsdóttir: Thank you. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u39	A respectable president. The first budget of this government is not good for the fight against climate problems. Sadly, they do not preach good about the situation of the cripples, and they do not preach the good news of a house - to - house application. Here is a prime priority where 7 billion are put in an effort that is anticipated to be meaningful and unnecessary, but only about 150 million more were gained in the goal of subsidised psychology services, which we know is a great need at this time in the middle of a pandemic with the effect that he has had on the nation's mental health of the nation. There is a set of priorities in these financial laws, a respectable president. They are certainly in harmony with the government of this smallest member, as we have seen. They're a bad start in this terms period.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u40	A respectable president. I'm not going to have many words about this bill's contents. I have some committee opinions after work, and I would like to thank the chairman of the committee for an interesting past few weeks. I just wanted to come up here and say that it's a natural situation to put 1,000 billion people out of this mess. These are my first impressions of financial work, but it must seem very special to have to do so extensive in such a small amount of time. I also say this respectfully to all the people who have arrived at a committee meeting with us who have given us invaluable assistance, and we have received a very additional vision of the work we are doing. So if we had had more time, we can clearly see how much better this work could have been in many respects. Therefore, I hope we will not see this process in this form again and that next time it will be chosen in the spring.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u41	A respectable president. Funds are raising carbon charge by 2.5%, which is, in effect, a reduction in its effect in terms of a 4% increase in consumption index. This adjustment is only an increase in accordance with the International Remuneration Fund's proposal for raising so that the tax can have the effect it should have. The tax could be used to build up the green economy or simply to expedite and is a practical way to achieve the amazingly impressive aims of a government in climate. I hope the council takes this matter seriously in the new year, because this is one of the most practical ways people from all sides of the political world can work together to cope with the climate crisis and take it into the market.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u42	Madam President. The United States certainly wants to initiate a massive attendance on climates, an attack comparable to the largest community projects of the 20th century, electric light, heating system, telephones, and highways. However, we are very aware that such measures can increase social inequities and turmoil, not careful. If people who live in the worst of terms have to take on very heavy loads, they will eventually lead to opposition to needed action. As a result, we will not succeed in this vital issue. How important it is, then, that the ideologies of the peer movement be in charge of such action. While good thinking is in harmony with this matter, we feel that such suggestions, which include a great deal of spells on ordinary people regardless of their economic situation, have to follow counter measures, e.g. Green checks, such as known in other parts of the North. So we in the United States won't vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u43	Madam President. As members of the Central Party, we order here instead of raising the typical end of a pensioner's pension from 1,200,000 k. Each year to 2.4 million, it goes up to 6 million each year. K. every year. This is consistent with the wishes of an older citizen's company, and we believe that the financial cost of these matters is not a rational opinion. It is, as we know, only taken into account the cost of the matter, not in any way, but in the matter's way, that the income gate, like every senior citizen that this use would stab every penny under his pillow and leave it to rest. We feel that the cost of this operation is negligible if any, if considered, of the secondary effects, and therefore we suggest that this old citizen's holiday target be dropped from 1,200,000 dollars. as it is now in 6 million. K. every year.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u44	Madam President. Here's this suggestion about the extension of the links trucks to the end of 2022, as if the rules have been made for the coming years. I covered it thoroughly in a talk here just before what I think will be the result of the change here, but it can be achieved by saying that by this operation, falling from these inferences to link trucks and letting 100% of their cars enjoy only, is slowing down and even taking steps back on transport energy exchanges, the car truck. I think it would be wise to allow this arrangement to live for another year and to maintain the bridge the best known to this market, the cartel, and others, that it is necessary for the production of cars and technology to get us to the point where we can safely cross into 100% electric cars.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u45	Hv. All council members. This brings us to our last meeting at the General Assembly in 2021. Just as the past year has been marked by the year's Korean epidemic, which has influenced our national life and activities here at the General Assembly. However, although this assembly did not meet until November 23, it has been successful to complete the legal arrangements that were required to receive the council's approval for a New Year's Day convention. I want to thank members of the Parliament for the cooperation of this subject under challenging circumstances in the last few weeks. The nature of the case was put on the approved budget of 2022 and related cases, as well as on a number of judicial committees held at annual conventions. This first section of 152 is extended to the Commission in 19th and to the 9th Amendment. In that case, 67 Senate premieres and 45 senators proposals have been proposed. In addition, one bill has been proposed. Of this number, ten of the executives have become law, one committee bill, and five government proposals. Thank you for your cooperation. I also thank the staff of the Generals for their fine work. I wish a new year and a long way home, and I pray that all of us may meet together in a whole new year. I sent my best New Year's Eve to the Continentals.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u46	Madam President. On behalf of us generals, I'd like to present thanks to the president and the vice president for our cooperation at this fall council. I also thank the President for his warm words to us, and I would like to present our behalf also to the staff of the Generals thank you very much for their good work and important help. During these last days and weeks, there have been unusual labors. Many of us are carrying on a new assignment. Rarely or never, other deputies have served at the same time, some with a few experiences, such as the one standing here, others none at all. They have been struggling to recognize the work of the Generals at the rush hour that is always before Christmas and New Year's, but everything has worked out well in the end. The members of the council have met a great deal, but I don't think there's a balance in any of the terms of the Council's special president, Lady Anna Sævarsdóttir, who has directed the council in the last few days. It's not easy to take it without warning, but it's done with honor by Madam President. I want to thank you to the President and the staff of the Generals and to wish them and all members of the council a new year. I'd like to ask senators to accept my words by getting out of their seats. - [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u47	Thank you to the President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-19.u48	Madam President. President of the United States reports: I, apart from the approval of the Generals, authorized the prime minister to postpone the discovery of the General Assembly of 152th, from December 28 December 2021 or later, if necessary, to January 17, 2022. Return to Reykjavík, December 28th, 2021. The Guðni of Th. Jóhannesson. Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. The letter of Iceland's President to postpone the meeting of the Generals. By this request and by references to the approval of the earlier Council of II, I now declare that General Assembly 152 is suspended. I want to use this opportunity to thank you. General members and members of the Parliament for good cooperation with these unusual and difficult situations in the short term of the December. We all think of those who have been in solitary confinement and who have not been allowed to participate in Senate work because of the pandemic season that rages and thanks for the powerful entrance of vice - keeping officials. I wish you as well as the people of the country to succeed in the coming year. Let's be careful and meet each other well in a new year.
