ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u1	A letter has been received by the chairman of the United States Parliament's Council for the change in the committees of Congress, as per 1 mg. Section 16. Congress, so that Harðardóttir G. Hardyddóttir takes up residence as the head of a budget committee instead of Ágúst Ólafur the son of Ágústsson, who takes her seat as a substitute in the same committee. Then Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson is replaced by Oddný G. Harðardóttir, who takes his seat as his replacement on the same committee. These changes will be considered approved without a vote if they do not object.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u2	Borist has received a letter from a foreign and development co-work minister asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a covering query. 1147, on legal advice, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u3	To answer, Prime Minister, Transport and Regional Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Health Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, and Environmental and Resource Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u4	Mr. President. In a speech at the left green meeting this weekend, Prime Minister, with permission: ◯ We want a constitution of resources and a fair drop of those who use common resources to the community. In 2019 the entire project paid 6.6 billion dollars. in the fishing fee for the use of a common fish resource. That same year, fishing companies paid 10.3 billion for money. In 2020, however, the fishing fees were 4.8 billion, and although it is not known exactly how companies will pay interest, it is clear that one company, Brim, paid $2.3 billion in interest, half of all the paid fishing fees in the country. Since 2010, a fishing plant has paid 103 billion dollars. to the owners of their income, almost twice the rate of hunting during the same period. So I feel that we do not get fair and that the present system promotes excessive wealth in few hands and enables them to hold on to many and much of the community. The question is, the count is the highest. The prime minister of those who used common fishing resources paid fair attention to society?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u5	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry, of course, on a matter of principle. Like what? A senator knows them, we have at the time he witnessed to the changed operation of hunting costs all over the world. I believe that it was a step toward progress when the fishing fee was adjusted in the last way so that it was decontaminated and like a dog. A senator knows that the amount of money this year will be considerably higher than the last one due to this recovery. That doesn't change the fact that we need to discuss these basics, and I think there are many things that need further discussion. I'd like to mention the highest share of enterprises which have been present for discussion and whether we consider acceptable the roof of the individual enterprises for source privileges as well as the definition of related organisations we are here on the scene of the council. This is one of the basic needs to be discussed, and it was actually approved specifically in the left - motion fishing policy of the left movement at a national meeting. The important thing is that we follow these principles not only hard but also take note of the question of who we believe is the ultimate section to be. Then there's the fishing fee itself that we can talk about, and thirdly, I want to mention how much we want to have in the part of the fishing system we've called based operations and now is in 5.3% while my national movement agreed to go up in steps. Fourth, our policy was adopted that newer ones should be looked to as opposed to the present arrangement and should attack the change that should not come quickly. A senator is surprised, since we have, of course, previously recommended such changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u6	Mr. President. Despite progress as high as possible. However, the fishing costs have dropped by more than half during the time it has controlled and the quality of its development has improved at the same time. The amount collected is not even sufficient to oversee the article. It's less than a fishing fee from commercial fishing in salmon and trout. I must repeat the question, because I was not discussing all of this as the highest. The prime minister came in, I just ask: Does she feel that the current currency is a fair one, especially when it is associated with the profits and positions of the companies?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u7	Mr. President. Hv. A senator can't come up here and say that the fee was dropped. Of course, he knows much better than that. He knows they're offline. He knows that they will rise this year for the past year. Gonna go for it. A senator coming up here in the speaker's chair then saying I raised the fishing fees? [[Up front.]] No, he won't. Hv. A senator has to accept the fact that fair slides are about the big picture I was going over. That's what it's all about. which roof we'd like to place on ownership items in access documents. It's about this big interaction. That's what's gonna happen. A senator just settles for himself. I think it's bigger than that. I don't think we're going to solve the opinion of a fair slide by discussing whether the percentage should be 33% right now or whether it should be higher or lower. I don't think that's gonna solve that, because we need to watch this in the overall context of the fishing system. Hv. However, a senator has already asked me this question, so I answered and answered it again: "I believe the changes made in the operation of fishing bills in my time were a great improvement.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u8	A respectable president. Yeah, this isn't the first time, and probably not the last thing I'm coming up in a pit to discuss the status of the marine road in Iceland and its impact on Icelandic society. Of course, it is of utmost importance to us in our restoration that the trust in the article will continue to grow and thrive on the grounds of transparency and clear play rules, but also on grounds of reconciliation and justice with the nation. The discussion of the past few weeks on ownership, control, interest stakes, lack of transparency, and lack of public trust in the government in these matters must be a major challenge to the highest authorities. Prime Minister to provide a clear, unambiguous message about the resource problem in some way, not to make some showy display. Then I'm underlining that we need an unequivocal time tie. The Norwegian government, the 5th - eared government, is now clear about protecting public interests by the way they react to the seaside. It is reasonable to ask: What is here? What are they doing here? Some may ask, " Why is self - control so high in my home? ' What's the film drawing up in Iceland? V.E.G. Secretary of finance claims that he is not concerned about this. He and his party are not satisfied with anything but the present situation. But I would like to ask the prime minister: Is she concerned about this development? It is evident how vital it is right now that we do not waste this opportunity, to place the nation's ownership of the resource, and to prevent an even greater involvement in the interests of the stakes of our society, as have been identified by the others. The bank manager. The unequivocal binding of the access to the resource is a key element. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Will it put forth effort to provide an unambiguous resource code? [[The president calls.]] I'd also like to have her attitude on what it is that the Norwegians see, the Namibians, the Faeroes and we don't.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u9	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. There may be two things. A senator here makes publicity, and I'm going to start with what is now the last thing about Norway, which is the source of foreign property in the seaside. As we know, the Faeroe Islands presented and agreed with a bill to legalize a foreign fishing trade, which is limited in Iceland. Only information for what? At that time, a senator came to introduce his ideas and to be inspired by Iceland, where such investments of foreign people are limited. It has now been observed by the Norwegian Highland Minister that he has suspicion, or that there is suspicion that foreign people, including Icelandic companies, are shunning laws that assume that ships with foreign quotas must be at least Sixty percent owned by the Norwegians. I'm going to say this here, that I understand quite well if the Minister of Norway is going to walk forward and sharpen these laws and regulations. Naturally, Norwegians do not want such rules to be avoided and such laws. It's about their prosperity and the way they are working, so I have a clear understanding of it, just as I had a lot of understanding that the movers wanted to look to the Icelandic example when it came to foreign property. Well, maybe that's one thing. As for the resource policy, it is very clear that if it is agreed in the form I made it, it is clearly stated that these sources will not be submitted permanently. This report suggests that they are then either temporary or indistinguishable. Hv. A senator has spoken only about the timeliness of documents. I have noted that there may be differences in views between different resources and that it is important to me that such a law is universal, applies to all resources. Anyway, I think we're gonna what. A senator would agree that there is a great need for the U.S.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u10	A respectable president. Yes, the public is made known with a call. The call is not to let the water run out. That's what's dangerous. In a paper with the prime minister's bill, it is clear, in its own bill: The resource law does not change anything, does nothing about it. It's this virtual thing that I'm talking about when you're putting up a no-bit resource directive. I'm asking you about justification for V.G. to be in this government partnership with the independent party and the forwarding when it was actually important. I'm of that opinion, and I'm stressing that we need to ensure transparency, a proposal for a scattered possession. We need to ensure a time tie so that the nation has unequivocally custody of the resource, not provide it with some hairy means to the seabed for long periods of time. I'm of the opinion that the current resource policy gives the public little or nothing, it doesn't interfere with anything like the highest level. In the report, the prime minister himself says. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask the highest. Whether it is ready to stake on political credibility and face the nation, the prime minister claims that the resource laws we are discussing are the rights of the nation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is serious, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u11	It's the Senate and the public speaking season as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u12	Mr. President. Of course it can. A senator didn't come up here and call this the law of virtualism. [[Up front.]] Of course it can. A senator did not do that. It is important to highlight the national interest in a constitution. It's a big deal, Mr. President, to say that no renewal will be provided permanently. [[Up front.]] That's very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u13	It doesn't change...
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u14	[[The president calls.]] It is important to emphasize in the constitution that these sources will not be distributed unless equal and transparent is taken into account. It is a big deal to discuss in a constitution that the legal requirements for resource use should be determined. Hv. A senator can't come up here and sit here and call in such a vision. We can debate how exactly the resource rules should look... [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u15	No call-outs.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u16	But this resource directive, available at the council - would underline the national rights to their resources, and it's wrong and it's showyness to say otherwise.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u17	A respectable president. On the website of the Microclerical Community, it says that nearly 9% of the Icelanders, or 35,000, feel that they have a responsibility to care for elderly, sick, or disabled relatives. Nearly ten times as many Icelanders have to care for such duties as Danir. The statistics listed by the Qualified Community represent the large part of the social network that has simply been pondered into the Icelandic home. Nowhere in Europe is a similar ratio of the social network to the family and individual responsibilities. These figures refer to information received from a recent medical report that seeks to detect the cost of nursing. It shows that there is a great need for nursing standards, set by a surgeon, to be caught. This is true both in terms of meeting the requirements for a number of professionals and meeting the number of carers. This large gap in nursing homes is probably due to some of the candidates and explains the part of the figure I mentioned earlier. The microengineering alliance is amazed at why the governor's office is setting standards for this service, but it is not followed. This situation is accompanied by an increase in disability in Iceland. Sir Kolbeinn Stefánsson's report on the growth of disability shows that nearly half of the increase is due to women between 50 and 466 years of age. Perhaps there is a gender-related change in labour markets, an increase in the burden of women in household custody, the care of children and older family members, and sexual violence, for example. Behind these numbers are mothers, grandparents, aunts, sisters who are just mid - 30 years old and who just can't do any more. 17 times a person was refused to enter a nursing home. What's the highest. Is it possible for a health minister to take care of these matters today?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u18	A respectable president. There is an enormously important point of view. A senator here is involved in his inquiry to address the burden of care especially women in the community and worthy and important points to this. Hv. A senator directly asks what a health minister has done or is doing to meet and adjust this situation. Then, in particular, I would like to mention a new agreement signed between the Ministry and the city of Reykjavík, which in this contract emphasizes the potential of home nursing in Reykjavík to further use well - being as well as to increase the number of your health skills, improve your ability to be more specific, and to provide a more comprehensive multilingual health service to people at home. This is a huge deal and was signed in the middle of Covid, so it may not have been as much of a signature as it would have been because there we are talking about a contract of 2 billion dollars. A year's basis. So it's a huge project. Another thing I'd like to mention is the operation of a special team of aging in the capital area, which was also supported, but the team's services are being aimed at reducing the number of hospitalisations. It can also help to cope with the problems that often arise in the emergency department. Here we are talking about two really big projects that are to improve this position. It's like this, and I think everybody feels it, especially through Covid, that it's not only about the load of care, but also about duties more important to women's shoulders than men in household business that arise from all kinds of stress around Covid-19. Therefore, we need to keep our glasses in special focus as we analyze the impact of the epidemic.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u19	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A health minister for the answers. It would also be nice to know what is going on with nursing homes. But what is the situation in negotiations with physical therapists, speech pathologists, and on cancer screening and waiting list in the system about both replacement operations and other? What is the situation in this regard? As we know the need for physical therapy has increased greatly in the case of Covid and we know a lot of courtings from speech pathologists. Nothing has been heard about that. There have been reports of negotiations with both physical therapists and speech pathologists, but no reports of successful negotiations have been made. And what's the situation? Is there a deal or aren't there a deal? Why are negotiations not concluded?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u20	A respectable president. Because of this, there is now a contract with physical therapists. A senator asks about it, even though he asked about almost everything between heaven and earth in his second question. But I'm going to stay here specifically because we're working on a contract with a physical therapist, and hopefully it'll just be over in the next few weeks. Hv. A senator in particular also asks about the expenses of nursing homes and the discussions there. It has been reported in the media that the project management I appointed to identify this budget has given its work, and the analysis is mainly based on the operator's answers. But there are some questions left that are being put on the stitches in cooperation with the operator. I believe it is very important that this step has been taken because my evaluation is unacceptable to be drawn on the basis of a discussion so important as this discussion is so important. In view of the importance of our ministry and especially the future, we need to draw together strings with the changed ages of the people.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u21	Mr. President. The worried parents of a child recently turned to me and showed me a letter from Reykjavíkurburg for their child born in 2015, starting a basic school trip in the fall. The result of the state's diagnostic and counseling centre is that the child is the best paid in a special ward for some kind of person, and the child was applied for it. The parents received an answer from the city's school and leisure field of Reykjavík, April 21, with the following heading, by permission of the president: ▪ Predicted a written application for a school course in a specialised department for some students. The letter shows that 38 students were applied in special departments, but only eight space is available. The law on elementary school says about the right students, with the permission of a president: ▪ All preschoolers have the right to teach in an encouraging study environment in an appropriate setting, which takes into account their needs and their general well - being. A planned demonstration of education in a specialized department for some students is contrary to the explicit principles of elementary school. According to law on elementary school, this is the responsibility and cost of a community in which the child lives, Reykjavíkurburg in this case. The Ministry of Education supervises that rural society meets the responsibilities of basic school law. Every three years the secretary shall submit a report on the implementation of school activities in the elementary schools of the country. On this occasion, I ask the highest. Minister, first of all, what is the highest response. Minister at city authorities' letter? Second, have the highest. Ministers are taking action on behalf of the case, at least 30 children, or the highest plan. Ministerial action in the near future? And finally, who is to be judged? Minister in charge of the duty of monitoring which the law lays upon the minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Unauthority of the Ólafur of Ísleifsson for bringing up a matter of vital rights. I agree with what. A senator, it is very important that our school system be in such a way that all children will be found. That's very important. I've been looking at this matter in particular from the Ministry's surveillance role and see how we can further contribute to the development of more children from what they have received in this case. I want them to draw special attention to new education. It is high education that we should stress early support. We see here that there is a diagnosis and a suggestion that the child is to be a member of a special division, and then another response comes from the local community. This, of course, is something that the Ministry of Education and Culture wants to look into, just to be developed in terms of the rightness of all children for their education. That's how we're going to approach it. The response is because I have truly considered this matter, and I feel it is urgent. The actions involved in education and further actions intended to fulfill these laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u23	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, and allow me to expect it, in view of the highest words. Minister, that we will be able to hear exactly what measures exactly the highest. The Minister intends to proceed on this matter. Parents did not apply for alms or gifts in behalf of their child. They submitted an application based on the child's right to be taught properly and are answered by statistical information that is not relevant for them. It is ironic that the person who signs the letter of the city's superior authority carries the job title Education for everyone. All of them? No, the letter confirms that it is not. Mr. President. V.E.G. In the near future, the minister of education must explain how he intends to ensure that this right elementary school law applies to all children. [[The president calls.]] All of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u24	A respectable president. It is imperative that such matters be handled firmly. The response of the city's authorities is considered, how this situation is handled, and what the situation is in this issue at Reykjavík. We thought about even more overcoming this case because it's urgent, like the driving force. A senator mentions. We want to make sure that everyone in our education system can find themselves and be very positive. A senator brings this matter up and appeals to us for fine works.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u25	President. When the Samherjah case began, a 100 - case study was held by the local prosecutor's office of about 60 tax cases. As a result, the district attorney asked for additional funding for six standards in order to carry out the office's work in November 2019. That request was rejected for financial work by 2020. However, local prosecutors'field of research increased by about six places in the middle of 2020. It is interesting in itself that it can be done when there is no legal warrant, but according to sources, there are 30 million from the Ministry of Justice, which somehow could be scraped together. Despite this, the situation of projects is still similar to that of the previous one, worse if further projects are taken into account because of recent legislation. In a larger context, we see the application of the U.S. Marshal of Congress many years back in time on additional budgets for the initiative investigation and the majority of the council that reject them. There is also a lack of funding at the Contestants, Fish Service, State Reconnaissance and Peritoneal Protection to conduct initiative studies and, without a doubt, with other institutions. They were just the organizations that could easily be found sources of such want. So the question is, If the political scene is key, when it comes to trust, how is it reassuring to see tangible action in Norway, the Faeroe Islands, and Namibia because of the Samaritan language, but here we have denied the request for increased financial authority and the starving surveillance agencies to counteract corruption? So I ask the highest. Minister: What are we doing to show that we are going to the head of corruption in Iceland? In action, Mr. President, where we are making the most of the operation that is truly successful. It is not enough to make laws if they cannot be carried out because there is no legal rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u26	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Just so you can recall, the district attorney received the documents he asked for, not by subsidies here at the council, but by the financial reserves of the Ministry of Justice, which is what the public financial law is about, i.e. The amount of money that is present in reserves can just be used if there is some kind of temporary stress. I'm going to say it, Mr. President, because I don't like it if it's indicated here that this investigation is not being carried out seriously, that it's not really my conviction at all. My conviction is that the district attorney is truly handling this investigation seriously, and he has a clear statement made by the government that he will receive the funds he needs to complete it. I have such great faith in this office. We've been watching it in the news that has been successful, including in the courts, on access to data, and we know that there is a full passage in this investigation. In the past, the district attorney had been ordered to access the data requested for some sort of conversation, advising policy, to local courts. I think it's important to say that I have full faith in the fact that the office is doing this with energy, but of course it takes time. As for the surveillance agencies in general, I would like to mention the department under which I am a member of the United Navy Bank and SEC. That unity has been successful. Now it stands to appoint a committee that takes out how it has worked, as agreed on by the Generals. On the other hand, we see this as the trust of the public because of the night. A senator will discuss it, has increased extensively in the Agency, which I believe is a sign that the Agency is seriously caring for its role in the general public. Then, of course, I am witnessing to both the Secret Bank and the SEC that ran there together in one institution. We have very good examples of organizations that have great confidence and are doing their work faithfully and seriously.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u27	A respectable president. I have no doubt that these institutions carry out their duties faithfully. However, it is very clear that the work load is unchanged. Despite the increase, there is still much to show. Because of that increase, they needed extra funding, but they weren't meant to be. It is also clear that the reserves of the mercenaries are applicable to unforeseen financial expenses. In this, there was nothing unseen. This was due to the payment of a budget asking for and not available. We live under the fact that capitalism produces power. As noted by the new head of Iceland's Department of Transparancy International in Silfrina yesterday, we see its manifestation in the Samherja language where the wealth that has been collected on few hands is used to attack the media and surveillance agencies. We see an arrangement for resource management, which is human activity. And the final question is, What is our responsibility in the politics of decision making up this wealth collection and possibility to attack institutions like the Federal Bank and the media when they are clearly trying to do their job despite the lack of funds? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u28	Mr. President. How important it is that we look for ways in which we can handle matters better and look for them! Examples from other places. That's one of the things we've been doing. Hv. A senator here referred to the link between government and government and others, and that was also true. one of my work was to provide a legal bill for defense against conflict of interest that was approved. It even built. ... ina proposal from the GRECO Committee so that, of course, we also need to look to what we can learn from what we have received from international institutions. Hv. A senator also asks what we can do to cope. Of course, increasing transparency is part of it, and the fact that we have now dealt with defenses against money laundering in sufficient ways is a great deal of progress. This, however, is an eternity project. I wanted to say, however, because I didn't come back earlier, that the Allied agent is an institution that is directly under the council. Of course, if vessels are about whether the office has sufficient funds to care for its very important role, it is the Senate Presidency Committee to Deal with them. [[The president calls.]] I quoted what I've been doing in my ministry, but it's important that the right people handle this, and in the case of an agent, it must be the council that needs to be reputed to see whether the office is fully committed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u29	A respectable president. There is a plan to set up a park on the south side of the West. The area is large and closer to that area. To Dominda, Geir Stealsfjörður, Waterfjords, and Hrafnseyers, or about 351 km2 area of some 4% of the Westlands. The establishment of a national park in the region is interconnecting reservations and at peace reporting under the same protection party. There is a great deal of agreement about the areas listed above as a peace zone. It is clear that there are many opportunities in the establishment of a local park, but a park is a big decision that needs to be prepared and settled with communities. In my mind, it must be established before a national park is established that the means to be built up in the region are still to be built, and energy where appropriate is not forbidden, and employment is not particularly restricted by land or sea. It is important that rural communities have a good access to a local rule. But there is no question about how the park's construction will be financed. A national park may now seem to be an attraction to tourists and to the inhabitants of the region. Therefore, tourists must be prepared for traffic. It takes both to protect the environment and to improve its bioavailability. For financial contributions to be assured in advance, there must be no empty promise. That's why I want to ask the highest. First secretary: What is expected of this development for the next five years, and how is this funding secure? How is communication process and how has a communication process been conducted with the rural communities on the project, and how is there a communication process on the national park led to the inhabitants of the West?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u30	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for this fine inquiry. I'd like to start by saying that things have actually been done in this area, especially in the Dollies. I think 200 or 250 million in construction, if I recall correctly. However, for continued infrastructure there, an analysis of the need is needed and this analysis is currently being performed. We've assigned a Western practice to win it. There is then a team of workers running around the peace description of the local people working together with those who do this diagnostic work. When she is in a position that should be now in May, it is better to answer the question of how much things are going to be expected there. But visitors' rooms, building footpaths, and other factors need to be considered. It is clear, however, that the council will be a national parkkeeper in this area and an assistant to national parks, as is the case in our other national parks. In any case, it is certain that this will be done and that money exists. But exactly how the projection planned over the next five years will be implemented, we will, of course, look to the national infrastructure strategy, which is our key control tool to finance infrastructure. Only in terms of that as a dog. A senator here refers to the process of consultation. The rural communities have been involved in this work from the team working on the terms of peace conditions, and I have personally been contacted by the rural communities, both before and recently, but then there is also the communication process. There's been a press conference and a online conference, I think about 60 people have attended this meeting, and more such meetings planned. We've sent leaflets to the population and more to them, and then there's a deadline to May 26 so that all can influence them and make comments.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u31	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. The establishment of a park on the West will open up opportunities for nearby communities to grow and thrive and build under the infrastructure, occupational life, and culture of the whole quarter. This brings us to the maximum benefit and reconciliation. But for that to happen, all preparation and planning must be carefully organized. I have heard that the park should be founded now on June 17, next, and there is no guarantee of financial support for the structure required. The park's establishment might now seem to increase the tourist flow across the region. Therefore, it is very important that funding be provided for a certain amount of time to attend an increased application where the area is extremely sensitive. It is really at peace today because it is difficult to get around. So I want to ask the highest. Ministers, if there is anything available and if it is not good at this point to prepare the project even better, provide long - term funding, and cover the project with greater harmony.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u32	V.E.G. President. The date was mentioned here on June 17th. It was that the wish of the local people she was mentioned at the time, and we're just working to fulfill that wish. The connection to Hrensunna is naturally apparent with Jón the son of Sigurðsson's birthplace. Our government covenant says that there are no more national parks than a national park in the middle of the country. This is one of the things we went to, the work we started, and it's been worked out with the locals and the other people involved. I don't know that there's a problem with the project. I think there's a lot of interest in that. Of course, it is a huge project that needs to be viewed in various ways. I'll make sure of what. A senator's plan is to be made on how much building there will cost. It will lay the basis for decisions on how it will be financed. I'm assuming that the national infrastructure programme is there a key control device that we will use.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u33	The president did not fully understand whether this was a written inquiry, because of the nature of the question. A senator also spoke about a report. [[A request.]] As the president usually responds to such situations, it is not always easy to find out where the situation is. That's all a president in itself can't promise. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u34	A respectable president. I am here on similar missions, which was the 12th of March that I asked for a written answer to the highest degree. The Minister of Education on the grounds of an appeal to the State against a woman who had committed a case in the province of Reykjavík, which confirmed that it had been violated. The question objected to the legal advice of the highest. In the four hours that took her to decide to appeal this matter to the National Court, a minister of education accepted. There should be no complex, extensive evidence here. It's not statistical or anything like that, it's: Who did the Minister consult? During the four hours, what lawyers concluded that this was a good way to follow? I understand a minister should have 15 days to answer that question. Obviously, they're already done. About a month later, she requested an additional deadline. I call attention to 17 conferences left. It is important that the Council receive these data before the end of the council, and I propose to a respectable president to assist the council now and receive these answers from the Ministry of Education. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u35	A respectable president. On December 14, a petition was adopted with 58 joint votes on the waiting list status of the Covid epidemic. Based on vacation and other factors, this report should have been available at the latest on March 15 or two months ago. There's been no word. There's not been a delay. There's no sound. That's why I want to ask the highest. To check where the report request is and to see if it is not being made up of the discussion. Two months ahead of each one without having to do anything is too much of a good thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u36	Mr. President. The person who stands here is horrified by experience in waiting for answers from stewards and the highest. Social Affairs Minister, including has acted against the law of ministers of responsibility and of Congress in connection with their delays in answers. But this time, Mr. President, I'd like to direct my attention to threshing. 870, which is a written inquiry to the minister of finance for a treasure that was observed in the World Council of February 4 of the past. I don't know, Mr. President, that there has been a delay to answer this inquiry, which is somewhat clear and simple, but now two months' beds have passed, it will take two and a half months, without an answer to that question. To be honest, Mr. President, we have to come up here from time to time to ask for it, that Ministers will answer questions from members of Congress in accordance with the laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u37	A respectable president. I would like to agree with my sisters who spoke here, and with other members of the council, regarding the fact that the council has a real surveillance tool to play with the executives. I feel that reply to normal queries is repeatedly delayed and repeatedly asked for delay on the part of the European Commission. It is good and blessed, especially if the questions may be extensive. But in the case of a clean, reasonable request, which should be quick to answer, I would like to encourage the highest level. President to push a minister. I realize that some questions can also be very difficult for a minister and a government, especially if it is difficult to answer election requests. But this is our custodian, this is our instrument here to care for what we are elected to do. I want to remind you of what it says. in the government covenant not to increase the respect and value of the council. [[The president calls.]] It makes me feel that it is time for those words to come true too.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u38	Mr. President. I must agree with those who have spoken here. It is not merely polite but obliged a minister to answer the queries directed to them and do so within the appointed time. Today, man's trunk is abundant and has not been reduced in the past four years. But I'd especially like to mention why. Katrín Friðriksson because it is a Hanna for a plan due to Covid in the last summer. In times of need, there has been a very large and massive resort. Many have been in great need and are still. Since then, this epidemic has been extending, and there may be again some new measures. Then it's natural to be completely amazing to the council that eventually needs so, officially, to agree to this, that there is no information about how it's done.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u39	Mr. President. I'm just very kind and obliged to come up here again because I got mixed up earlier, like the highest. The president pointed out, and began talking about reports. To my pity, the few reports that are also waiting for and that have passed the last day of sales. However, this is a written request to be answered, far beyond the exact amount of time required to respond to such requests. It is simply asking a minister to understand how this half billion has become new, how the funds have divided between university education to Units and then, on the other hand, to the college re - education institutions, which are in direct competition with market educational companies, small and large. The EFTA monitoring facility is to examine these and other persons. It's best to say, in spite of the great minds the government has shown in delaying the release of reports and answering questions of various kinds, in particular the importance of returning to exactly this strength without being in doubt, if true, an analysis of how they have been used, whether it has been legal, and whether it is once still in disguised. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u40	President. I would normally come up here with my computer, and then I would trace the latest numbers on queries, but I don't have them this time, so I can't have them. I'll agree with the tips presented here. Now, the rumor is coming out, or it's coming to a meeting of the Presidency Committee, to get started and to finish tomorrow, about the extension of a number of plots due to the Covid operation. Once again, action is actually being trampled on over a very short period of time, with no opportunity for the council to review the effects of action taken before extending it. There's a really bad practice when everything goes down that dates are always pushing on, which is time to think about in advance. Somehow, it's like the government doesn't know about calendars or something like that and suddenly he sees, "Ups, it's just a matter of time before this thing expires. " [[The president calls.]] We must throw a bill through the council now so that the council will not be able to look at the consequences of the proposals we propose. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u41	With both calendar and clock in mind, the president asks that the deadline be kept in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u42	Mr. President. I'd like to agree with the members of Parliament who have spoken here. It's disturbing how to get there. Ministers respond and how long they take to answer questions from members of the council. Hv. Senators need these answers in their jobs, not just to help with the project. Here are some questions. I can pop it. Hv. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson asked the financial and economic secretary three questions, which I think had been simple in answering about digital taxes. That was December 7, 2020. It is about five months ago, and the answer has not yet been received.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u43	Mr. President. I was going to come up here and complain that my inquiries since March would not have been answered, but then some people come up here asking questions, so I must wait a great deal for my answers. I'd still like to agree with what. Councilmen, chief. President, of course, that there is no restraint on how long it takes to answer these requests and to report, especially in view of the fact that the Ministry has rarely been so much designed as at present. Hv. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson refers to a question in December and why. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir does the same, five months old. Then we have a Covid query. We senators have been very helpful, Mr. President, to let the Covid languages go so fast and definitely through the council, so now we must make the highest claim. Ministers and departments will answer the questions that concern just this Covid case and will do it as fast and surely as professional as the Council has held matters when urgent Covid cases are run through it. And then I bring it back again and again. paritaprevir Sæmundsson said, he's probably an Iceland record in waiting for answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u44	Mr. President. I guess I don't know exactly the specific occurrences of any kind of inquiry. The members of Parliament have been referring, but they must only draw attention to the fact that it has, of course, been discussed several times, and many attempts were made on the part of the council to pressure answers from stewards. Of course, circumstances vary, and some cases require more preparation and more work than others, so there can be a variety of explanations. I don't know that it's something worse than it's been many times. However, we may not have had enough success in improving our practice in this regard, as we planned. Other than that. I wanted to tell you I think it's a good thing. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, referred to, is getting rather rapid treatment at the council, that it should still be possible to do so. This is an important issue in the extension of various activities and should not be complicated by the highest level. Allied to take sides in their extensions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u45	The president would like to say that he did his best to take down the inquiries and reports that were presented here and that he will study the position on them and after which perhaps an opinion of the oldest has been made without a reply, especially if they have not been asked for an appointment. But the president also calls attention to the problem. Of course, if they would like his help to investigate such matters, they can turn to him without taking up the time to speak in the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u46	Mr. President. I appreciate the response the President gives to this discussion here. But I still move on to the highest. The president said he would explore the questions of the oldest. Now, asking for an answer within 15 days or asking for some time, so those asking for answers to questions asked in December or February are not asking for any alms when they ask for an answer, a spontaneous answer. I'm still going to remind you that the front of this collaborative agreement by this government is spoken of the procreation of the Generalis. The role of surveillance that we generals may have is one of the most important things we have in order to bring out important information. I encourage the president to follow all the current inquiries, whether they are 15 days old or since December. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u47	V.E.G. President. I'm also going to add to the asshole that's here, and I understand well and trust the highest. A president for our business. I have a few questions. There are, in particular, two queries involved in the Ministry of Education, and there is one inquiry about the use of special property savings to finance ministers. I understand that it may not be desirable to spend all day discussing this, but we are naturally obliged to inform people about what is going on, that we are calling for answers, and that's what we're doing here in a speech chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u48	A respectable president. I agree with the importance of this matter, that it goes on, especially in view of the fact that we have to send out a clear message about the work structure of the Southnes, and that needs to be done in consultation with the locals. It seems to me, after the treatment of the committee, that it is. In fact, there are many opportunities to build up, especially when traveling is restarted. We need it in order to increase economic growth and to produce valuable things. I also wanted to come up here -- that may not be connected, but there are certain concerns - on the structure of defenses, including In connection with the ideas of construction of workers associated with Iceland's defenses, harbors in Helga and construction in other parts of the South. It is important that we have a complete picture of the progress of the organization and its plans. The rule is that the plans and decisions for the construction of defence workers are actually at the hands of the European Commission. I am a strategist of our full - time involvement in the defense work, as we have been since the establishment of the Atlantic Community of March 30, 1949. We sit at the table, we have a voice, and when we talk about what touches our home, our voice is strong. We were here to discuss the importance of the council, both the inspection and the coming of the council on many matters, the answering of important questions, etc. I'll even say it. in connection with the ideas that have come from when. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn's Óttarsson Proppér's decision on major defence mechanisms is to be considered and provided for the council. I think it's part of what we're supposed to consider and discuss in view of the fact that huge developments have taken place in a decision-making process, a process of participation. I believe it is important to promote transparency as never before when it comes to making decisions on such matters, information, especially the legal authority. In my opinion, when it comes to such major decisions, the secretary of state is having a conversation and consultation with the Council's Foreign Affairs Committee. I just wanted to put this into this context. However, as soon as I emphasize the importance of continuing to be active participants in Western defence, I believe it is important that we re-evaluate the processes we have here within the council's walls as to how we can make the decision process so that more people are involved than just appointed, that elected agents come to decision-making in the case of major decisions. This is my input into this as far as the matter itself is concerned, and then we're going to get on wood. It's good to see that we're changing the situation about the transition with Kadeco, how we're going to build up on the old defensive, and I think the step on this subject is right and sensible as soon as I hope it will increase the opportunities anticipated for the future in Southnes. This is what I'd like to say as soon as I'd like to promote that I think we should think in the bigger picture how we deal with the decisions we make on further defense building in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u49	A respectable president. We received this matter on the Environment and Transport Committee between the 2nd and 3rd. ... becausethatwasinexperienced by a confidential doctor of the Houseroom. After reviewing the case, in consultation with the Ministry and the Association, we had to make arrangements to move the project into the past, i.e. to seek medical advice rather than a confidence firm in certain traffic events or when health care is suspected not to allow driving. Thus, it is directed directly to the Ministry to investigate, with the politicians and police officers around the country, whether this project is the best operation, or if there are other ways to find out. Initially, a confidence healer was expected to be in the Association Lab, but it was not possible to obtain some particular confidant at any local site. So we move to this arrangement and hope that it will work out. Another issue that was discussed and decided not to make changes was about the maximum rate, why should it rise from 10 to 15. It was a discussion that we had taken before, and we did not take any further action now. Then there were vague fines and things like that. It was reviewed at the Committee that there were certain explanations that now increasing the tire cycle, increasing the use of bicycle trails, and other forms of guilt, people would probably not be able to take so much care and ride, such as a wheel. on footpaths that are specifically marked for walking, wheels where pedestrians cannot go and all kinds of such obvious things. I suggest that we finish this case now and then it's just this change with the doctor, not that we need a confidant's assessment, but only a doctor's evaluation, which is the real change.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u50	President. I was just going to take this opportunity, since this case is being discussed by reason of it. A speaker and a few words. It is well - worked and thorough, and it is considered as rough. A senator has a routine. I do not deny that there is some disappointment in the fact that there has been no return to an increase in maximum speed in ecosystems, i.e. the decision to go from 10 miles per hour to 10 miles per hour. We discussed this considerably in the Committee, and we discussed walking speed and speed, etc. The short story is that there are some of us, quite many of them, who think it's pretty reckless in an ecosystem that is certainly not meant to drive; a 15 - mile [15 km] speed lets a lot of speed drive when it's taken into account that people are walking, even children, playing games and stuff like that. When they were talking about the evidence by raising, that it was because of the automatic loss of cars to those who went over 20 miles per hour, that it was too burdensome to do so, I wondered if. If those were the strongest evidences, a prominent authority would not have wanted to look at it any more. On the other hand, I'd like to know if this isn't something we could have hit. And then perhaps, since I have time: Am I right to be understood by my community that, no matter how this transition goes through, a lower speed in their rural communities in the course of residences, they still have some sort of self - determination rights for this particular habitat? Where does knowledge come from? A pilot's work on that? Does he know or have he considered the matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u51	A respectable president. So I'm starting now where we ended up, since I don't have the traffic laws in front of me, the rural communities have room up to a certain extent - or more so, which is usually the rural communities, but they can also be the Vega - and there are certain conditions. I'd think it would be quite bound to be 15 miles, either higher or lower, in terms of ecosystems because there's a special kind of street there, but since the rural communities have distances, there are different types of roads. There is a particular species, and we will tell you what the pace is. I think there's something bound about it without being able to say it because I don't have the law in front of me. But if we were to change the border to this, we'd be reducing the lightness of the law in terms of wherever you are when you drive at twice the maximum rate of 60 percent, there will be a loss of licenses and other such. It also said that there was a bit of difficulty in speaking, depending on the factors and the like. It is so short there that there can be a question of how little difference between being deprived of driving rights or not. Finally, I'd also like to point out the safety of traffic law: If children are playing, and if there's something in the environment that says you can't drive at 15 miles per hour, you can't drive at 15 miles per hour, even if it's the maximum speed. Here we have the safety precautions and other regulations that must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u52	President. Thank you. A senator for the record. All right, the thing about the logic of the law. I think we can all agree that the nature of the provisions is quite different from that of other roads driven into our fine system. If there's any place we should put other interests first, maybe that's right there. To be honest, I have a lot of concern that this will reduce the purpose of the ecosystems, but history has shown that they are enormously important. I live alone, and I know how good it is to have such an area where men, equipment, and animals can live together in harmony. I think we're going to bite out of the needle with this, because this increase, although it doesn't look like a lot of paper, going from 10 miles to 10 miles, is a big difference when it comes to comparing people's walking speed. We are suddenly starting to see that cars drive at a considerable speed down streets that they formerly went very slowly down. It may well be, and I hope that the manager is right in it, that driving conditions are important, and possibly they will, it's not always what you wish for here from the Senate Hall, that this change just gets past as many people, that they keep driving 10 miles per hour in the dormitory. I hope so. In itself, I have no question. I don't think it's necessary to change. I don't see the reason for it. I'm not going to make people feel like this, but I just don't see why these changes were taken, while the law was being revised because of a number of other important things. [[The president calls.]] I feel that I have not seen the evidence yet. I fear this will not be good.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u53	A respectable president. With the speed of the streets, the environment is the most important thing. It is primarily the environment. If driving is a problem somewhere on an Sport, the solution is not to turn the law that most people are thinking about. Enlightenment on ecoves in the last ten years is based on 15 miles. Everything you have in print on an evestic site says 15 miles. There's a lot of things to be updated and changed, and I think if you're making a fast drive, you just have to increase vegetation or put up a hard time or something else that slows your traffic down rather than change your speed. So I just repeat, it's a maximum velocity in the best possible situation. If there is something that prevents speed, children from playing, or anyone who has increased priority on this site, then other traffic laws are entering. So I think this is more technical change we're making here than it's having some real effect on road safety and speed in the streets.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u54	Mr. President. I was just going to come into this. The Committee's opinion is from a greater part of the environment and transport committee that I'm not part of, and I was going to explain my position. In short, this is - now I'm talking about theitarians of drivers who are not sure to meet health conditions - regulations taken from the law, i.e. It's the law that's taken care of by a confidence specialist, and it's put back to old gone, i.e. to seek attention from a physician. I think this explanation is quite surprising, Mr. President, as it says here, that the Grouping Room had considered these procedures almost impregnable. I find this simple and inexpensive, i.e. That a government agency like the Agency can really, after a law code states some of its roles, as discussed here, say she can't do her part. I think it's a cheap excuse, and I'm not at all offered for such a big agency as the Agency, that she can actually shrug her shoulders and say, "We can't do this. This is impossible. I think it's cheap. It bothers me if the company can actually ignore such a direct law order. That's the main reason I'm not of that opinion. I object to this kind of work as well as to the fact that the committee has no better solution than to return to the old world, which is also a problem in many ways and with full knowledge. Environment and Transport Committee. The system that is now to be restored is defective. That knows why. Environmental and transport committees, but still we're going back there. Of course, Mr. President, they're not employed. I can't agree with this and can't accept this, so I'm not on the committee's opinion. Mr. President. It is an old problem when drivers lose their place for health reasons that some become stubborn and continue driving until they have an accident or an accident that leads to interference by the police. There are many parables that I now know some of my own work as former police chief. Then the driver is deprived of driving rights and goes to the doctor. We are returning to the time when the driver goes to the family doctor, who often finds it very difficult to deny the person's proof. Some have a bone in their nose, and others can't. It is far too common to see a doctor they know they will receive proof of. It's the fact of the matter, if I just talk straight. And if they don't get a witness from this doctor, they'll just go to the next one. I feel that the monopoly, Mr. President, would be taken here to consult a gerontologist, even though there was no other proof from a gerontologist. Of course, this is a problem because doctors are scarce in many parts of the country, which, of course, calls for many trips to those in need of such proof. This is a specific problem, and this may be the problem that the Agency faced, not being able to take care of the whole country properly. To invite people out in the country to come into town to consult a private doctor of the U.S. O.A., maybe what was impregnable was, I don't know. I don't know exactly. But there's this kind of work I'm opposed to, and I think it is a valid surrender to return to this once existing arrangement, knowing that it's not a good and not a final solution, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u55	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a judicial hearing with a press and educational proposal for a proposal for a new translation of the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people. The committee received some comments on the subject and also received visitors. I'm not going to use this time to read it all up, but interested people can study it in the Senate document. This synonym suggests that a new translation of the UN Convention on the rights of disabled persons replace previous translations with a proposal for a resolution of the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled persons who became members of Congress No. 61/145 in 2016. In view of the Commission's opinion, the new translation harmonizes much better with the core ideas of the agreement than the former translation and visitors and the reviewers were in agreement that the new translation was better. Then the Commission agrees with the opinions of the importance of government campaigning to introduce the new translation of the agreement and, at the same time, look for ways to replace older and different versions of the agreement. I would like to emphasize that it is very important that this be done. Not only does the government and the Ministry have to do this on their websites and on their websites but I want to court members who have published the translations, including. to increase the access of people to the contract, to replace them with this new translation that I expect us to legalize here in the next few days. Then the committee will also emphasize the availability and availability of the translation into available form. published in sign language and Braille Then there was a perspective on the importance of making public comments, or the English - language statements, which have been published on the interpretation of the individual contracts, to be translated and made available in easy - to - read form. These comments are an important part of making it possible for disabled ones to understand and know and protect their rights. But also to increase the knowledge and understanding of the agreement by the public, especially those who work to form in the justice system or in the social and health system. This is essential for all the public to study and accept this contract, for it is not enough for disabled people to know only its contents and rights. There will never be a real change, and the contract will never get full unless society understands its importance. In view of the work that lays the basis for the new translation of the contract, the Committee considers it desirable to attack the translation of these general statements and to further ensure further protection of the rights involved. In this regard, it is important that we continue to have extensive consultation with those who are disabled and other interests. Mr. President. Finally, the committee suggests an adjustment in the text of the synonym. She is not meant to be a material influence, but the committee feels that it is preferable to refer to advertising in the Government News, where the previous translation of the contract was published, especially in view of the fact that the contract did not follow the Convention's Directive itself, No. 61/145, making a second suggestion, as it were. 1693 at the 145th legislature. I'm not going to read here from a word to the word of the word change, but I'm going to say that the change is not meant to have any material significance, just so it's crystal clear how it is put, i.e. The change in the synopsis proposal. Hv. paritaprevir However, under the opinion of the committee, this article will write the one standing here. Councilmen Þorsteinn Magnússon chairman, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir Gnarsdótttir, Birgir Ármannsson, Olga Margrét Cilia, Sæmundsson Gunnarsdóttir Gurnardótttir, and Þömundsson. Mr. President. I am delighted that we have arrived at the point where I am giving a commission to make a new translation of the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people who are supposed to be unanimously contented. The rights of disabled persons are of utmost importance, and it is of enormous importance to Icelandic society that this contract is well translated and thus can be used to improve the rights of disabled persons. As you can hear, this is the opinion of the entire General and Education Committee, so I really hope we've agreed within a very short time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u56	Mr. President. I'd like to introduce a new team of council members that I'm going to call lost/found, and mostly maybe lost. And what's lost now, Mr. President? It is one of the bill that the Council of the United Nations decided almost two years ago that the government should be submitted and submitted the bill to legalize the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. This issue is about a new translation of the UN Convention on the Rights of Disorientated People. But, Mr. President, it's not enough to translate a controversial agreement, we need to validate it. We've agreed in this room that we'd like to validate this basic human rights agreement, and that's what we did two years ago. This case was presented to me by 15 other members of the council, and it was clear that this fundamental agreement was to be legalized. And unlike most members of Congress, the matter was adopted by all categories. In this case, the government was directly assigned by the council to prepare the legislation, and the government was to present a bill in the General Assembly that involved the legalization of the contract and later adaptation of the Icelandic law - but on December 13, 2020. This was five months ago, and it hasn't been done. I'm calling for the president's team, and I'm reminding the council to call for this bill into this room before the council is terminated. It was sad when I examined the government's case record at the beginning of that winter, but the Constitution tells what case the government is about to make in the winter, and there was no such bill, although we have approved it here that the government should offer such a bill. We have made that political decision, and Congress is in its nature, according to the order of the council, the Declaration of Will. The Ministers and the government are executives and must carry out the will that we put into the hands of the government. That will be broken here, Mr. President. In this important matter, this will of the Council is available, and ministers are not to be able to choose and refuse the sounds of the council after any convenient time, I restate that the Ministers will implement the administration and carry out the will of the council. Because of this, I've asked the highest. Prime Minister of this Assembly Hall, I did so in the last fall, how it turns out that this case of all people, a case that would translate into a huge act of justice for disabled people and disability in Iceland, would be left behind. There was little to be said about answers back then than there was to the highest. The prime minister said he was going to look into the matter. But now, Mr. President, it's been six months, and there's only so much wealth. Not long ago, a government statement came about about to set up an independent Human Rights Office and was testified that this was part of the legislature. I'm glad you're here. I'm glad that this case is calling out an independent Human Rights Office which is a separation in this contract. But that's not enough, Mr. President, there's still a legal firm. The general legislature, the highest agency of the Icelanders, has exactly taken place, and I reiterate it once again, the historical step that the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Distinguished People must be legalized. It's unmistakably that a giant step would glorify the rights of this group. As many judgments have shown, there is a sharp difference between validation and validation. We have signed the contract, but we haven't established it yet. The Supreme Court has pointed out in its judgment that in view of the fact that the contract is not legalized, governments do not have to enforce it as if it were a law. We have only established three major international contracts. It's the Children's Club, the European Human Rights Convention and the EEA Convention. Of course, we have a full record of international agreements, but notice that we have only legalized three international treaties. By the legalization of the United Nations, this agreement on the rights of disabled persons would be placed on this porch, next to the children's covenant, next to the European Convention on Human Rights, and next to the EEA Convention. Mr. President. I am incredibly proud of the council I set out in my time and was able to pass through with my companions, since by the legalization, Iceland would be one of the first countries in the world to legalize this international agreement. It's not often that Iceland can boast of such things. And I do not take to heart that I also had a matter of Congress at the time that was accepted here at the Council, that the children's covenant should be legalized. We became also one of the first people in the world to legalize him. This suggests that later today's program will be held in the highest order. Department of Social Affairs on the implementation of the Children's Convention. That great step we took in my time, and I have repeated my challenge to the Government of Jakobsdóttir's daughter Katrín to respect the will of the council and to submit this bill and to complete this adaptation to the contract. Mr. President. The poor have long been waiting for human reforms from this government, and now they are to wait for legal reforms and rights that have already been decided by the Council. But, Mr. President, this case involves not just the disabled people in Iceland but the entire nation. The will of the council is clear and unrecognized in this matter of universal importance. The ball is with the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, and you may have noticed that it appeared a full page ad for the past weekend, which was a challenge from the Quantum Community on this very matter, that we should get this bill from the government and finish the legal process. This is not the first time, Mr. President, forced by the Quantum Community to buy a full page ads in the papers to call for respect for the will of the council. I know there's only a few days left of this council, but I'm pretty excited. A government to fulfill the promises that we have made to the nation and to disqualify people that we will complete this legal arrangement. There's too much at stake here so we can lose our chance. That will never be taken into account, because this is one of these big cases that we could all be proud to be a part of, i.e. ..to finish this case. The case will not be much larger to me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u57	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator very much for a fiery speech, a visionful speech. I'd like to draw it out, as the people know who've been here at the Senate Hall, to the point. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson has been tireless to remind us of this precisely. We have signed the contract, but it has not been legalized. This has been approved here at the council in no uncertain way, unless there were two members of an independent sect who did not trust in supporting the matter, which is a natural subject of thought. Not surprisingly, though, this is a matter of concern. It may well be that the legislation follows both the legislature and the European Commission, but it should also be in exactly this group of people whom we especially have to put our arms around and have made very clear here at the council that we want to put our arms around them. Once again, it is carried out that does not show the initiative to follow through. It is interesting to know that there are three contracts that we have legalized, including the European Convention on Human Rights. We know that the European Convention is a maintenance tool for us. He's been spanking the government, including. It's okay as long as we're promoting legal reform, transparency, and information in our efforts to improve our community in the interests of all, whether it is for the benefit of human rights or for other factors. That's why I want to ask you why. A member of Parliament: Why does he believe that the government is coming to its feet when the will of the council is absolutely clear in this important matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u58	Mr. President. That's the million-dollar question. I just can't figure out why the government doesn't submit this bill. We agreed to this council resolution almost two years ago, and it was five months since the bill was due to appear. They haven't lacked the time, and if they don't have time, they don't have the will. I'm so sad that in all these matters, the government should choose to ignore the will of the council. Or what? Will there be a bill? It wasn't on the file. That's not shown yet. Isn't there a deadline to April 1? We can provide variations in such matters. I think it's a big deal. The Congress has decided. Consumption is the Council Declaration of Will. Ministers should not be able to refuse or choose the interpretation procedures after any convenient time. They're in place. Second, it attracts human rights, like that. A senator points out. Human rights, such as this, provide additional protection. They make up the city's instruments for government. It is of such importance that such agreements are legalized, for Iceland has a so-called diphysiological theory based on the fact that international agreements will not be allowed here unless we legalize them. Therefore, courts cannot use international agreements, such as the established law, unless we take the step of legalizing them. It may well be that this matter is at the expense of human rights. I just can't believe that's why. That's another thing we spend in this room. So I'm going to take advantage of the last seconds in this regard and say, " We can't let this situation fall asleep. ' [[The president calls.]] This is way too big to let the government complete its terms without presenting this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u59	A respectable president. I'll take my whole mind. It's way too big a case like a dog. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson says to allow the government to simply sit with it completely unmoved. The Senator refers to a year of election. I'd much rather say this is a clear political election declaration. We know that the government and the government groups intend to proceed, and I think all the leaders of all the government groups have declared that they will try to continue working. It is also a clear declaration in their campaign that they will not do anything about it. So I think we must proceed, while there are 17 days left of the election or at least at this council, to pressure the government on this important matter. So I reiterate my question about why. A senator counts - a million-dollar question, he said - that the governments are drawing their feet in this matter. Does he consider any one class above another to be a drag on the subject?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u60	Mr. President. I can't figure it out either. The government's responsibility, and it's led by the left green, so this team has to answer for it. I can't believe that party is going to the campaign without fulfilling it. Enjoying them. I'm gonna use the last moments in this room to remind you about it over and over again. We have to finish this. We've decided in all categories to take this step, and it's important. This is not just symbolic, to speak into any group, this actually increases the rights of disabled people and disability in Iceland. Do we not agree on that? We agreed on that two years ago. I don't know where the case is. I can see why. A senator, the chairman of the case, is going to respond to me, and perhaps he may be able to react. A senator will give us answers in this regard because we can all travel here. [[The president calls.]] This is not a group of political issues, this is our heart business. I certainly am burning for this case. Surely we can awaken this government from a thornlike sleep. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u61	President. I was one of the senators who voted by the United Nations Convention, the rights of disabled persons, and I certainly have not changed my mind in that matter, and I still feel that it is urgent. I can't answer where that case is, and I just don't know what the top is. Minister actually has it on his side. However, I consider the case we're discussing here, a new translation of the contract, a key element of the next step, i.e. ... toconfirmthe deal. We better have a wording that is above all doubt when a contract is legalized. Unfortunately, this is what I think, the fourth or fifth edition of the translation we are considering right now. Sadly, the movement of disabled people and scholars at the time of translation was not initially considered enough. However, as soon as I want to accept the importance of legalizing the contract, I would like to remind you that it has already been validated. There are no laws that violate the agreement, and that matter. It is crucial that the contract be legalized. [[The president calls.]] I believe the new translation is a basic step in our ability to continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u62	Mr. President. This is not entirely true, because international treaties are not laws. The treaty is only national rights, not national rights. That's what matters. And I'm a little surprised to hear it. A senator did not realize where this matter is. Has this not been discussed at a council meeting of the left green? The government was assigned this role. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: Haven't you discussed this matter during the two years since the resolution? Where does it say? Yes, there's a new translation, I'm not really busy with it, but there's just a drop in the ocean compared to what we owe ourselves to do, which just legalized the contract and completed the Icelandic law. That's what matters. It may well be that we have to change the law, and I just don't care about it, then we do, we don't do anything else in this room. If this has not been discussed at council meetings of the left green, I'd like to encourage you. A senator to record the matter at the next meeting of the council and then inform the people and the council where it is. I know why. A senator agrees, I know. That's why I find it so strange that I'm rubbing in this here in the halls of the Generals that I've been doing and from this platform. Is there any opposition? I can't figure it out. This opposition just needs to be brought to light. Yes, there were two members of the Independence Party who did not vote for this matter, but the rest did. It was a parapolitic language, a cool language that was important to people in their rights struggle, right protection against local societies and the state, and even private people.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u63	Mr. President. I don't know why. A senator is trying to create something more incontrovertible about the matter than he is. I think everybody's on their way in the same direction. But as I told you last year, my answer to what. It is fundamental to have a translation of the agreement, which transcends doubt and translation into which there is total agreement and satisfaction. It is a step to follow this synonym, to have text on a contract that is above doubt. As a result, you can take the next step in the discussion. To me, it's about that in order to validate something, we have to have the words that we want to validate.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u64	Mr. President. I'm not making any disunity. I'm just in a hot mood, and I'm very much concerned that the council's will is respected in this matter. I'm urging the government and the administrations to keep the council's will in all of these matters. I still hope that the bill will be submitted in the next 17 days or at least some answers, that they will be submitted in the fall or something. Of course, I know the translation is important, but it's been two years since we agreed. The government must be able to do more than one thing at a time. Why doesn't this bill come forward, and we take it for a connivable treatment, as we do here almost every day? The European Commission is spending money to get to the ears of senators with a full page ads. The ad is about respecting the will of the council and its completion, as promised and consenting to the agreement. I reiterate my challenge: Let's finish this matter for all of us, but not least for those who are disabled in Iceland. I deserve it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u65	A respectable president. We here discuss a proposal for a new translation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People. Hv. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson has fought desperately for the legalisation of the United Nations agreement, and I have supported him in it. It seems to me that this translation is a crutch because it could have been released long ago. The government's in the fourth year. This translation has been disputed for many years. The government could have brought the translation earlier. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Would it have changed anything if we had legalized the contract, even if the translation had arrived later? We could've just changed the wording into the library. The point must be to get legalized on the contract. That must have been the purpose of the Council's approval that this should be available in December. It is quite remarkable that, at the same time as this legal rights on which the Council is being established, there are repeated legal violations of the government's legal rights for violating the legal rights of the CREEP Agency. It is true that both in the case of impairment and when in the case of microchip property, it is so high that it is illegal. For my part, I say: If there has ever been a need and a need to establish a United Nations agreement on the rights of disabled people, it is now. We have to get going because if it had been done, it wouldn't have been possible to take some illegal action on these people.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u66	Mr. President. I just don't believe in the government that she's going to hide behind the fact that the translation took so long, and that's why she couldn't have submitted a legal bill earlier. We're here translating the right-left some EEA thing, we can handle it, complicated text. I agree that it should have been completed a long time ago. But the big thing is legal. That's what I'm talking about. It's in there. We have seen, in various courts of Supreme Court, that courts have been reluctant to discuss social rights. Their situation, according to the report of a Harvard University lawyer at the time, showed that the social rights status for the Icelandic courts was weak and their protection had deteriorated in all recent years. It was written at the time. That is why it is so important that we finish the legal contract and put this agreement on the same set of European and human rights covenants and on the same ledge as the law in the country so that these fundamental rights can be applied as law-or-laws, both to the government and, most important, to the courts. This is a big deal. It's a big thing if, as I told you before, the government gets away with it, without any discussion here or in the community, not to offer a bill on the legal agreement made by the United Nations on the rights of disabled people. It's just a big deal. I know the Children's Covenant, and I also made it a point to validate it, but it took a lot of years, I can tell you, on equal terms. There is no against the children's covenant. No one should object to this deal. But it's like there's some sort of inadequacy coming when things need to be done. Let's take this step together, let's all face ourselves, and be proud, let's finish the council with style and legalize this deal. Although it may take a little time to adapt the Icelandic law to that, okay, fine, but we'll finish the legalization and finish it in style.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u67	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answers, and I have no choice but to agree deeply with him. If this isn't a crutch, then why isn't it at the same time we're asking for this contract to be legalized? It would have been easy to be in the exact same place with it. Hv. paritaprevir Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir said earlier that the contract had to be translated in order to validate it. Then it tells itself that if it was the purpose, the legalization should have come in at the same time. Then we'd be taking care of both of these matters at the same time. This explanation cannot be fulfilled because the matter is being drawn up. For some reason, the government groups don't want this case to end, it's very clear, very clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u68	Mr. President. Since it's the last answer, I'll return to that word. A senator said it was possible and should have been over for a long time. It's a dead end. This approval is two years old. It's been six months since the bill was due to appear. This did not go unnoticed by the government, and it's had plenty of time. I know there's a lot going on, but it can be done now. This is possible if there is a political wish and it is available because the synopsis was accepted. This is a coast on the government, Mr. President, to the European Commission. Once again, I reiterate my challenge and accept the challenge of the Quantum Coalition: fine ministers, respect the will of the Council and the wishes of the Quantum Community and the Developmental Help and the rest of the people who have stressed this and resolved the matter. The government needs to submit the bill, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u69	A respectable president. We are here discussing a proposal for a resolution of the new translation of the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. Sadly, this translation of the disabled gives no increased rights. If that had been the point, we would also be having legalized on the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People. What would that have cost us? Let's just think about how it's done with microenergy pensioners at the State Department. If the person is not satisfied with what the government's insurance agency is doing in the wrong way or in other ways, he can appeal to the Social Security Commission. But what does that mean in human language? Yes, they have so complicated by the decision - making committee that they have even gone by government lawyers, paid to handle matters with the Commission, and these lawyers generally hold the cause of an insurance agency or the government against the desperate one. And what can the invalid do about it? He's fighting it, when the decision-to-be is sent to a insurance agency that receives military lawyers who are paid by the state, that the individual himself must be subject to his own case before the decision. Even game? No, it's a long way from here. It's a very uneven game. That is why it is so important that we establish the United Nations Convention and immediately establish it. It shows itself here, by presenting only the translation, and also by asserting that the contract can be legalized, the translation must be true - which is completely wrong. What we need to do is just make sure that the United Nations will and soon have an agreement established by the United Nations as soon as it was completed in December but was not done. The matter is drawn out by putting the translation into it. Another thing in this which makes this sad, this translation which has no effect on the law or rights of a micro-life pensioner is, as I came to face the problem. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson, the Generals' agent, reports that there is repeated violations of law against people who are asking only for their rights in the insurance department. We must put on all the alarm alarms when a insurance agency goes so far as to offer illegally to an apartment on top of a person, disability. Surely, then, we must think: What is going on? When U.S. government agent points out this and instructs them to consider the case and to observe that the individual's rights, they draw forward and fail to answer, do nothing. If you can talk about violence, you can talk about extreme financial violence there, violence to a person who does not really have a chance to defend himself and who has no chance of defending himself. What might be the odd thing about this is this determined offense to this person at all levels, over and over, until the person loses his apartment. And then he still has to fight, even though an agent has already pointed this out, and likely he will have to go to court to get his rights to this butt-scraped booth made, one of the scariest things in our history and us to shame, that we have a system that systematically violates people's rights. It should in itself be defending their rights and trying to make sure that people get their rights completely. Sadly, that is usually the case, making suspicion grow. And I know there's a lot of cases people have given up. They have rights and have everything to get them through but give up because they can't afford a lawyer and can't afford to fight for their rights to the Social Security Commission or simply to the Agency as a whole. In fact, some give up on going into the Bureau and trying to get their rights. It tells us that there is something wrong then. And it also tells us that it is necessary to obtain an emissary agent who can back up with the Allegler's agent, who is employed and who has had enough to turn, but who has tried to resist and try to help individuals who have become involved in this system. We have a funny system that shows that those in charge are coming over and over again and saying that there has been an enormous growth in disability, and they need to be treated, and they need to be thrown out of God and seared, or in some work test, which is just amazing if we look at the story and get the facts on the table. As I pointed out in unsupervised inquiry, we're at the highest level. The Department of Health shows what's the difference between the situation here and in the North countries where we see the huge demands for people in Iceland. It turns out that a large proportion of those who are entering the disability are women aged 50-◯66 years. Is there any surprise when it comes to showing that the explanation could be a workforce, increasing the burden of women in homes, the care of children and older or sick family members, and the use of sexually transmitted violence, for example? In view of this percentage, we are discussing grandparents, aunts, sisters who are barely in mid - life and who are simply unable to do so. People run into disability, and what does the government do? Nothing, I'm sorry. Where do you think it will end when a person trying to get into a nursing home is rejected 17 times? Who do you think has to take responsibility for him all these 17 times? Probably mothers, grandparents, aunts, or sisters, or someone. Their responsibility will be turned away from the State into them, and then the state will be amazed at the mass of microorganism. This also tells us that unfortunately, I feel that the United Nations is not to be legalized. There's some difficulty in the government. I'll just say God help us if this government continues to be another four years. Then we know exactly who are not being helped. The United Nations Convention on Infirm People will not be legalized. The wide banks will be found one more trip among those who should, in particular, be among those who are desperate, disabled, and older, as well as those who have the least in this society. Sadly, there are other excuses for not legally establishing the contract as if it were not a valid translation. The correct translation has nothing to do with the legalization, nothing. It's just a will, but this government has no desire to validate the United Nations Convention, not just one, unfortunately. That's why I'm afraid that the Corporate Community has to do an advertising again. While we have the present government - but hopefully we don't plan for it to stay - I'll just say, God help us, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Distinctors in the next four years.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u70	Mr. President. I would like to present the following, as the head of the committee's review of this matter: the situation of disease control and discussion of it thus centers in communities and here in a Senate hall that I think it is right to call this particular matter - I do as the head of committee opinion - before. Environment and transport committees between 2 and 3. as is common, in charge of that agreement, the committee brings the matter, not the minister, as is known. In my opinion, once again the matter is discussed with a view to the leading committee. This will not stop a discussion but will temporarily postpone it, as the Senate allows.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u71	Mr. President. I recommend a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee (EC) that changes the bill to correct the change in various laws to meet the economic impact of a pandemic crown virus. It's a dual. The bill suggests that employers and people in employment will be allowed to distribute the local and insurance fees suspended in 2020 on temporary regulations and that they have the authority to distribute it for up to 48 months. It is also suggested that the prescribing information on the special property pair should resume. This is the evaluation without condition but bound to the payment of the total tax. As mentioned in the opinion of the committee, the Commission received indications, or more correctly wishes on other matters that are not related to this bill. To those wishes, at least no wish could be made Once a while. The requirement for dispensing is that a person be on an application day in dues with other official fees, taxes and tax fines. The bill says it's a one-on-one day on December 31, 2020. However, the report of the IRS points out that it will be more successful to meet the economic impact of a pandemic crown virus, No. 25/2020. The majority agree with this indication, suggesting that a person is subject to other public fees, taxes and tax fines on one day, December 31, 2019. It is also suggested that farmers, which are authorized to provide payment sources will be replaced or broken during the period of payment distribution, i.e. During the 48 months, if due due on a date of bankruptcy or registration is required. This, in turn, follows the necessary adjustments. Hv. paritaprevir The Roa Brynjólfsdóttir Brylfólfóttir writes in advance of the committee's opinion. paritaprevir In a material sense, also, Sigmundur over Gunnlaugsson Gunolsson. Under the opinion of the above - mentioned publications, Óli Björn Kárason, and why. Jón the Steindór of Valdor, Bristor the Valdimarsson of Níelsson, Borgis the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, Resak Brynjólfsdóttir, the daughter of Bjorn, in advance, Sigmundur, Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, in advance; and Hjálmar Bogi, the Hafliðason of the Merit.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u72	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason to see if some part of the Committee was involved, as in the review of special property savings, if they had been in the labour market and were in some particular part of the special property school, and would then even want to use him to buy an apartment or pay off an apartment loan, if it had been discussed with them that they could use it taxlessly, as some at the labour market can. This request came to me from a person who could not use the special property savings monthly, tax free. I would like to ask if this was part of the committee's discussion, and if there is something that would need to be considered to harmonize so that there is no difference in the situation in which he is in and that he can take advantage of it. It's not a big group, and it doesn't have a lot to do with special savings. However, it may be important that they, like everyone else, have this opportunity to make use of special property savings.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u73	Mr. President. Now, the bill on this subject allows the assessment of property savings that is not borrowed, to be bought, or anything but a clean assessment. This, in turn, pays a total tax in accordance with tax laws. In terms of it as a matter of course. The senator, however, is after that, that, first of all, there are laws on individuals - and it does not matter which individual is involved - are allowed to use special property to a certain extent because of purchase of a first estate for up to ten years, and without taxpaying, tax-free. I know this has been extremely important to many, whether they're in a public labour market, they're desperate, regardless of their position. V.E.G. In addition, the secretary of finance has provided a bill, which is available for the material management of the Economic and Business Committee and application deadlines, on May 14 if I remember correctly, that it must be allowed to use the property on mortgages not only because of the first purchases but also because of the others or thirds or fourths. That will be so, as it really is, until June, more than two years ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u74	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answers, and I'll admit I'm seeing that I've been confusing the bills. But then, of course, when the bill comes up for a discussion, I'll take it from here. What's the most amazing thing about this is that in order to use your special savings every month into the head chair, tax free, you have to get it every month. Also, microenergy pensioners have fallen out of their jobs and have not received this monthly payment, but they still had special uses. They will not be able to take advantage of that savings every month, even though they would like to take advantage of it to get the same opportunities that others might have for this tax free. That was the inquiry, and I hope it will be considered in the case of the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u75	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for the tip. Now, that's not how I remember, at least At the first purchase, you can make use of a certain amount of money, collected, etc. That may be so, and the committee must consider it. But I have to keep a little warning on what I'm saying, but I don't think that's a good sign. The senator is in a way that the committee must consider this in the treatment of the matter. Of course, I'm going to assume that there's a bad thing. The Senate will then clear the way of the problem when it hopefully arrives for material treatment in the coming week to come because it needs to be settled before this month's end so that people can continue to make use of their own resources into the payment of second, third, or fourth apartments. Act like a dog. A senator's attention is surely worth determining if some relief can be made. And if necessary, at least the Senate will arrive. not noticed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u76	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I'm not going to extend this discussion in particular, but I just wanted to bring in my special savings. This bill means that this is an extension of measures taken by the government last year, various measures to cope with the economic effects of the Korean epidemic, as the report says. In this regard, it may also be appropriate to establish that it would have been very necessary to obtain detailed information, even a report on how these measures have been worked out, what they have been through, and what might have been better handled in that process and might have been improved. Of course, these measures have been relevant, and we in the central category have supported them, in an effort to minimize the economic damage we have suffered from the virus epidemic. So here, it is being said to extend some options, e.g. Pays on public fees, extensions, or offers payments, which are the best of subjects. And it is natural to realize, as the report puts it, that companies are still dealing with business problems as a result of the epidemic, and there is uncertainty in their maps, although there is much evidence to suggest that the tourist arm might be better than men afraid to hope and hopefully that it will be. It says here in a paper with the bill that even the project is proposed. that individuals will be allowed to temporarily remove certain parts of their special savings. According to one authority, the measures taken early in the epidemic were set out in 2020. The options were quite new, and there is some evidence that individuals wanted to be reimbursed by the government. The article then discusses that unemployment is still high and that it is right to renew the authority to provide people who suffer loss of income opportunities to make use of it on the same terms as before. In itself, I don't make comments about that. This has proved to be very useful to many, and it is always good to have savings that can be used during difficult times, such as the loss of a job that many have had to cope with because of the viral epidemic. It is intended to reduce the loss of income due to the virus epidemic, and, of course, it is up to each person to determine whether it will pay to use this temporary warrant for the evaluation of property savings. I just want to help you understand the importance of giving serious thought to the need to take out this savings because there are many benefits to this savings. Of course, I will not belittle it, especially if there is no other savings available to those who suffer from loss of income because of the viral epidemic. However, it is also important to remember that for most of the budget reduction when the work force is completed, it may be helpful to be able to improve this loss of income with a special property cut. It can also be useful if a person chooses to reduce his job e.g. by 60 or by no means work at all before retirement. So this savings form is very important and, in fact, it is one of the most beneficial ways to save. If the employee commits 254.4% of the pay per unit of the remuneration, then the payer adds at a rate of 2% of the pay. This 2% from the employer is actually a raise that the employee would not receive. Therefore, as many and everyone are to be encouraged to take part in this saving system, it is a selective, but it should encourage as many as possible to participate in this, those who are blessed to have work this year's journey. It is also important to ask ourselves some key questions before making the decision to withdraw the savings. Is it practical to take it out now and how much is it going to cost you in the future if you even take it all out? Also, we should not forget that this savings form is also the property of the person he collects and who is missing, that is, the right of genetics, at the end of the court. Also, it should not be forgotten and it is good to remember that the special property must not be walked on if e.g. comes to the bankrupt person, as other property may be, such as Houses, cars, bank accounts. Mr. President. That was my input. I do not reduce the fact that having this option is good and that it is being extended because we are still being confused and unemployment is still high because of the virus epidemic. It's good to have this possibility, but I'd also like to encourage those who may not need to take out this savings to consider carefully whether it's worth taking it out. Otherwise, I think this bill is in many ways good, and it is part of the government's operation to extend the points mentioned in the bill. Finally, I wanted to say, Mr. President, that it would be good to have a good overview of all these measures and the results they have yielded. Many of these include a wealth of material expenses, as we know it, and it's good to have some success measures, i.e. the results and the effectiveness of these measures. It is the natural key to making such a move.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u77	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a fine speech. In substance, I think we're just around the same place in these areas. I'd like to give you one brief tip, though. Because of what? The senator insisted that information about the scope of these actions, etc, is published and regularly updated on the Board of Directors and the Ministry of finance on the Covid Actions. I think the presentation of the details that are separated from the supportive measures taken, whether of part-time work, maintenance levels, revenues, lock-downs, etc., is exemplary. This information is being updated regularly, as I say. I just thought it was the right thing, Mr. President, to bring this up, since the senator stopped doing so. However, it is true that as time passes and we are better looking for land, and it is a good or reasonably normal situation here, we need to evaluate the effectiveness of any action that has been carried out, both in whole but also in certain individual measures. I agree with what. A senator says that it is an assignment that we need to engage in in the months to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u78	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'm well aware of the fine information available on these actions and good for you. A senator came in and pointed out this because it is good to have a good overview of them. I agree with that. A senator is exemplary in this work. I'm not putting it out at all. However, it is with results that may be harder to evaluate at least now. But this is something that we need to do much more in the financial affairs, we need to make a success of what we are doing. I have made myself available in my work within the budget board to improve the role of the State's financial administration, i.e. to see whites as a result of certain measures involving expenses on the part of the State Fund at any one time. This has been discussed within the committee, and members of the committee agree that these matters need to be improved because, yes, it is our joint job to promote confidentiality in the financial resources of the state. At the same time, we are maintaining a powerful welfare system that requires money. It also requires careful attention to the fact that what is suggested in each case produces certain results that humans are hoping for. It is also part of the public financial law. It is natural that money is being placed on things that do not produce the desired results. These factors, therefore, need to be carefully monitored. I just want to thank you. A senator for an excellent answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u79	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a synopsis of the Barnier of Iceland to carry out the United Nations Children's Convention. This is the first policy and plan of action established by the Icelandic government to follow the introduction of this important covenant. The United Nations Convention on Child Rights or the Children's Covenant was adopted at the UN General Assembly on November 20, 1989. The contract was signed by Iceland on Sunday, January 26, 1990, and validated on October 28, 1992. The children's covenant was so legalized at the General Assembly in February 2013. Therefore, there is a clear desire to make children's human rights high above the country. To date, however, the work has not been properly followed. According to the children's covenant, Member States are responsible for its induction process and its responsibilities. It even hides. in which to achieve apparent and real benefits for children and create a culture and social environment in which children's rights are respected and they can enjoy them. In my office as Minister of Social Affairs, I have emphasized the well - being and rights of children, and I am a candidate for this part of extensive work done at the Ministry of Social Affairs by the access of a number of parties to review and promote the services and support of children and their families. If the Parliament's resolution is accepted, Iceland will be in the world's top priority when it comes to the human rights of children and their follow-up. The main objective of the policy and of the Action Programme, included, is to meet the high standards of the United Nations Child Court and the duties of the government under the children's covenant. By means of this policy, the terms of the treaty will be followed in a targeted way, ensuring that the covenant is a red thread in policy and government action. Further, the aim of the policy is to ensure the equality and targeted participation of children and young people within the administration, to increase cooperation between public members with the welfare and rights of children, to provide a targeted framework for interests based on the rights and well - being of children, and to increase the knowledge of child rights within society. By doing this, we further ensure the progressive participation of children and young people and create increased understanding that their voices, views, and experience provide valuable reasons for creating a society in which children's rights are fully respected. A respectable president. In September 2018, the person standing here, along with health counsellors, education and culture, justice, transportation and rural government, and the Union of Icelandic rural society, signed a petition to eliminate barriers between systems, improve child service, and create a child-friendly community in Iceland. It described the above ones as willing to work together between causes of suffering that will depend on them and have the rights and success of children. The declaration of the present government states that the creation of a pregnant society and the implementation of the United Nations Children's Covenant, including those of the United Nations, should be emphasized. in order to improve the effectiveness of children in Icelandic society. On the basis of this, the government official in February 2019 suggested that increasing the participation of children and young people in government policy policies as well as the suggestion that all larger decisions and laws should be turned aside from the rights of children. The work started immediately in the Ministry of Social Affairs in the shape of a whole-scale policy on the implementation of the children's covenant, which included the following: is emphasized by the participation of children and by interest evaluations based on child rights. The policy and action plan is based on the general comments made by the United Nations Child Rights Committee that highlight the focal point of the covenant as a whole and a combination. The purpose of the covenant is a red thread in the activity of the official and is reflected in the attitudes and decisions of those who work with children or deal with them in one way or another. In addition, Member States must ensure that a good knowledge of the rights of children is available in the community and there are procedures and procedures within the administration that bind children's rights and contribute to the covenant as part of policies, legislation and all government decisions that affect children in one way or another. In order for us to meet the objectives of the children's covenant, the purpose and participation of children must be consistent with the work of the government. This policy was taken in cooperation with the Council's Management Board on matters of children and that it has also established public members, members of society, and most important of all children and young people. For broad consultations, the plans of the policy were presented in a political puzzle in the spring of 2020. As a result, the committee assigned to continue working with its policy, taking into account the comments made, and implementing a series of baby - married Iceland projects that covered a set number of years. The committee was appointed members of the Department of Social Affairs, Justice, Education and Culture, the European Union of Civil Affairs, and the Children's Agent. Along with the work of the Committee, the office of the Children's Office was appointed to work with children and minors on policy topics and took 800 children from all over the country to shape policy policies. The Commission has concluded its final plans and implementation plans for child-friendly Iceland last January and is now running a final Parliamentary proposal based on that policy and plan for child-friendly Iceland's Council of the United Nations Children's Convention. As noted earlier, the policy and action plan aims to meet the highest standards of the United Nations Child Court and the duties of the government under the children's covenant. The main issues of policy are among others. To develop a government field with children and young people on national level, a formal assessment of the potential and experiences of children and young people is provided by participation and consultation with public agencies in cooperation, including to the European Council, to develop a panel that includes a broad statistical overview of the welfare, well-being and rights of children in Iceland, to shape and implement stakeholders from the rights of children who become part of the mandatory process of preparing legal bills, policy-making and determination of individual children's affairs, to increase the rights of children's office by an executive of children, to validate and prepare the legal agreement of the third-sized book to the children's legislation on the basis of a child-friendly course to the United Nations Children's Court of Children, to shape the general policies of children and young people on the nationalities, to revise and agreement with the legal legislation of children, to establish the legal legislation of the legal agreements, to ensure the implementation of child care for the development of child-care and the development of child-care, to the development of child-care rights and to the development of the development of child-care, to the state and to the state and to the development of the development of child-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care programme-care-making programmes of the state, to the state, to the state and to the state and to the state and to the state and to the development of the development of the development of child-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-re-re-care-care-care-care-care-care-care-care of the state, to-based programme-care-based programme which are in-care of the state, to the state, to the state, to the state, to the state, to the state, to the state, to the state, to the state, to the state, to the state, to the state and to the state and to the state and to the state, to the state and to the state, to the state, to the state, to the state, to the state, to the state and to the state and to the state and to the state and to the state and to the state, to the state, to the state and to the state, to-ree shall-releed and to the state, to the state, to the state and to the state and to the state and to the state of the state and to the state and to the state and to the state and to In view of the comments made by the United Nations Child - Court Committee on bringing in the Children's Convention to the Icelandic government, the general comments of the Commission on the implementation of the covenant, and broad consultations, I offer this synony proposal. I hope that this important matter will be held by the World of Congress on spring afternoons. We are making major changes in the affairs of children and families where the goal is to make Iceland an even better place for children and that they will be the heart of the system. The system should work for the children, not the other way around. If this is approved at the General Assembly, I assure you that Iceland will be in the highest order on a global scale when it comes to rights of children, and thus will play an important role, not just in securing the status and rights of children in this country, but in drawing the carriage for the rights of children all over the world. A respectable president. After the discussion here at the council Hall, I suggest that this case be referred to. General welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u80	A respectable president. I recommend the General and Education Committee, all and exclusive, for the bill to legalize the change of general penalties, No. 19/1990, involved in official prosecution. The adjustment is made in 1st paragraph. follow-up to 0-32232. (For fully formatted text, see publication) The law of the law, 232nd par. a. Two. it is suggested that these laws be obtained even when valid. This case has grown to XXV. Chapter of the General penalties, No. 19/190, this is a case of delinquency and violations of privacy. 242nd. According to that chapter, the law says what violation will be the seat of the public prosecutor. By Court of Law on Change of General Laws, No. 5/2021, stopped adding 232. g. a, about siege monotherapy, on a list of number 1 of 242. gr. a general penal law. It is necessary to deal with these limitations and to ensure that such violations of the official prosecution were planned by the above law that these violations do not adhere to the rules of extraordinary court cases. This bill does not contain any opinions, whether in accordance with constitution or international commitment. At that time, the bill will bring no expense to the state's funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-10-92.u81	President. I'm recommending a synopsis proposal from what it is. The board of directors and patrols, and I want to start my case, thanks to others. Council members of that committee work with this proposal as a basis for cooperation. The proposal for an interpretation of the cleansing of Mount Heather reads: The Council concludes to hide the Environment and Resource Minister on behalf of the United States of England to investigate the extent of pollution in the soil and groundwater of Mount Heather from the time it was run by the U.S. Army in connection with the defense system of the Atlantic Community. At the same time, a timely waste waste and cleaning strategy will be implemented to ensure that environmental and pollution sites meet today's requirements. The secretary should submit the plan to the General Assembly no later than March 15, 2022. This work takes place in close cooperation with landowners. President. As indicated in this short text, it deals with events that have lasted quite a long time, i.e. from the day the U.S. Army was fired on Mount Heather. It is not overreaching that this matter has been moving around for some time, would it not have been about half a century since it began to differ from what was happening on Mount Heather, what was the right thing to do on Mount Heather, what was the need to do on Mount Heather, and what was the duty of Mount Heather? From the defense agreement itself, it is based on military divorce to individual agreements made. It's a very complicated matter. The management board may be very proud to have now taken the step of shutting and closing the door, for the rest remains, in spite of all the issues of what is and what is wrong, that there is a need to be action in the area. The extent of pollution and cleansing must be evaluated. I'm pretty proud to be able to stand here on behalf of you. The administration and monitoring committee, which has come together on these matters. The U.S. Army watchpoint was fired there during the 1954-1970 season, and it can be assumed that due to the pollutants found there in the earth there is a danger of pollution. For decades, Earth's Owners, at Mount Heather, who purchased it nearly half a century ago, have tried to seek their rights and thus intended to represent the executives at various times, also speaking to the United States government and the Atlantic Alliance, looking to courts and beyond success. It remains a contaminated region that must be cleansed. President. Looking back on past events and human actions, it must be borne in mind that attitudes change and that it may not always be wise to set standards on the past, but, fortunately, a view of the environment has been changed from the fact that there was a divorce in a developed area. The United States and Atlantic alliance have not been a factor in this change of viewpoint, and especially in terms of separation of war zones. And that's the key right here. Thus, the Atlantic Union has been prepared to provide strength for the research of pollution from military activities and for its part the U.S. government has been able to clean up areas after its military base or finance such cleanups regardless of treaties. President. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You see, the attitude has changed, so that earlier contracts do not always matter, since all those who came to them have come to realize that there is now a greater need to take action than they agreed. This is a well - known example in the world today. Therefore, transnational authorities believe that it is necessary to initiate discussions with the United States government and the Atlantic Community for access and participation in future cleaning activities on the basis of research and waste management programmes. Transporters believe that it is necessary for the Icelandic government to initiate their discussions. President. It is a pleasure, as I have said before, that the Allied is now working very hard to complete this matter. Landowners and the rest of the case have been a success in the system for a long time. That it is not a matter of which I know it is a matter of taking the steps necessary to clear the area. I look forward to it, where there is nothing. The board of directors and board of directors agree on this matter, that they will have a quick and secure progress through the council, and we can walk out in the summer, whenever a council will be delayed, proud to have set the end of a series behind the debate on the cleansing of Mount Heather.
